CODE OF ORDINANCES
TOWN OF
CARY, NORTH CAROLINA
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1656.jpg]
 
Code of Ordinances 
Current through local ordinance 2024-Code-04, passed 12-12-2024 and effective
12-12-2024
 
Land Development Ordinance 
Current through local ordinance 2025-CODE-02, passed 5-22-25 and effective 5-
22-25
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CURRENT OFFICIALS
of
CARY, NORTH CAROLINA
Harold Weinbrecht, Mayor
Don Frantz, Mayor Pro Tem, District B Council Member
Ryan Eades, District D Council Member
Lori Bush, At-Large Council Member
Jennifer Bryson Robinson, District A Council Member
Carissa Kohn-Johnson, At-Large Council Member
Jack Smith, District C Council Member
Town Council
Sean R. Stegall
Town Manager
Lisa Glover
Town Attorney
Virginia H. Johnson
Town Clerk
PREFACE
   This Code constitutes a recodification of the general and permanent
ordinances of the Town of Cary, North Carolina.
   Source materials used in the preparation of the Code were the 1982 Code and
ordinances adopted by the Town Council. The source of each section is included
in the history note appearing in parentheses at the end thereof. The absence of
such a note indicates that the section is new and was adopted for the first
time with the adoption of the Code. By use of the comparative tables appearing
in the back of this Code, the reader can locate any code section or ordinance
included herein.
   The chapters of the Code have been conveniently arranged in alphabetical
order, and the various sections within each chapter have been catchlined to
facilitate usage. Notes which tie related sections of the Code together and
which refer to relevant state law have been included. A table listing the state
law citations and setting forth their location within the Code is included at
the back of this Code.
Chapter and Section Numbering System
   The chapter and section numbering system used in this Code is the same
system used in many state and local government codes. Each section number
consists of two parts separated by a dash. The figure before the dash refers to
the chapter number, and the figure after the dash refers to the position of the
section within the chapter. Thus, the second section of chapter 1 is numbered
1-2, and the first section of chapter 6 is 6-1. Under this system, each section
is identified with its chapter, and at the same time new sections can be
inserted in their proper place by using the decimal system for amendments. For
example, if new material consisting of one section that would logically come
between sections 6-1 and 6-2 is desired to be added, such new section would be
numbered 6-1.5. New articles and new divisions may be included in the same way
or, in the case of articles, may be placed at the end of the chapter embracing
the subject, and, in the case of divisions, may be placed at the end of the
article embracing the subject. The next successive number shall be assigned to
the new article or division. New chapters may be included by using one of the
reserved chapter numbers. Care should be taken that the alphabetical
arrangement of chapters is maintained when including new chapters.
Page Numbering System
   The page numbering system used in this Code is a prefix system. The letters
to the left of the colon are an abbreviation which represents a certain portion
of the volume. The number to the right of the colon represents the number of
the page in that portion. In the case of a chapter of the Code, the number to
the left of the colon indicates the number of the chapter. In the case of an
appendix to the Code, the letter immediately to the left of the colon indicates
the letter of the appendix. The following are typical parts of codes of
ordinances, which may or may not appear in this Code at this time, and their
corresponding prefixes:
CHARTER                                     CHT:1
RELATED LAWS                                RL:1
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS COMPARATIVE TABLES CHTCT:1
CODE                                        CD1:1
CODE APPENDIX                               CDA:1
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES                     CCT:1
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE                   SLT:1
CHARTER AND RELATED LAWS INDEX              CHTRLi:1
CODE INDEX                                  CDi:1
 
Indices
   The indices have been prepared with the greatest of care. Each particular
item has been placed under several headings, some of which are couched in lay
phraseology, others in legal terminology, and still others in language
generally used by local government officials and employees. There are numerous
cross references within the indices themselves which stand as guideposts to
direct the user to the particular item in which the user is interested.
Looseleaf Supplements
   A special feature of this publication is the looseleaf system of binding and
supplemental servicing of the publication. With this system, the publication
will be kept up-to-date. Subsequent amendatory legislation will be properly
edited, and the affected page or pages will be reprinted. These new pages will
be distributed to holders of copies of the publication, with instructions for
the manner of inserting the new pages and deleting the obsolete pages.
   Keeping this publication up-to-date at all times will depend largely upon
the holder of the publication. As revised pages are received, it will then
become the responsibility of the holder to have the amendments inserted
according to the attached instructions. It is strongly recommended by the
publisher that all such amendments be inserted immediately upon receipt to
avoid misplacing them and, in addition, that all deleted pages be saved and
filed for historical reference purposes.
Acknowledgments
      This publication was under the direct supervision of Todd Paul Myers,
J.D., Director of Editorial Services, and Pat McAllister, Senior Code Editor,
of the American Legal Publishing Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio. Credit is
gratefully given to the other members of the publisher's staff for their
sincere interest and able assistance throughout the project.
   The publisher is most grateful to Christine B. Simpson, Town Attorney,
Charles H. Henderson, former Town Attorney (retired) and Sue Rowland, Town
Clerk for their cooperation and assistance during the progress of the work on
this publication. It is hoped that their efforts and those of the publisher
have resulted in a Code that will make the active law of the Town of Cary
readily accessible to all citizens and which will be a valuable tool in the
day-to-day administration of the Town's affairs.
Copyright
   All editorial enhancements of this Code are copyrighted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation and the Town of Cary, North Carolina. Editorial
enhancements include, but are not limited to: organization; table of contents;
section catchlines; prechapter section analyses; editor's notes; state law
references; numbering system; code comparative table; state law reference
table; and index. Such material may not be used or reproduced for commercial
purposes without the express written consent of American Legal Publishing
Corporation and the Town of Cary, North Carolina.
©    Copyrighted material.
American Legal Publishing Corporation and the Town of Cary, North Carolina.
2008.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 05-008
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR THE TOWN OF CARY, NORTH
CAROLINA; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN;
PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE
AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF CARY:
   Section 1. The Code entitled "Code of Ordinances, Town of Cary, North
Carolina," published by Municipal Code Corporation, consisting of chapters
1 through
36, each inclusive, is adopted.
   Section 2. All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before March 10, 2005 with the exception of Ordinances 05-001 and 05-002, which
will be included in the first supplement to this Code, and not included in the
Code or recognized and continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
   Section 3. The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4. Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in such form as
to indicate the intention of the Cary Town Council to make the same a part of
the Code shall be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to
the Code includes the additions and amendments.
   Section 5. Ordinances adopted after March 10, 2005 and Ordinances 05-001 and
05-002 (both adopted on January 13, 2005) that amend or refer to ordinances
that have been codified in the Code shall be construed as if they amend or
refer to like provisions of the Code.
   Section 6. This ordinance shall become effective upon adoption.
Adopted: 5/26/2005
Effective: 5/26/2005
THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF CARY
Article I. Incorporation and General Powers
   Sec.
1.1.   Incorporation and general powers.
   Sec.
1.2.   Enumerated powers not exclusive.
   Sec.
1.3.   Exercise of powers.
   Sec.
1.4.   Form of government.
Article II. Corporate Boundaries
   Sec.
2.1.   Existing corporate boundaries.
   Sec.
2.2.   Extension of corporate boundaries.
Article III. Mayor, Town Council and Appointees
   Sec.
3.1.   Form of government.
   Sec.
3.2.   Number and qualification of Council members and Mayor generally.
   Sec.
3.3.   Legislative powers.
   Sec.
3.4.   Reserved.
   Sec.
3.5.   General procedure.
   Sec.
3.6.   Vacancies.
   Sec.
3.7.   Compensation and reimbursement for expenses of elected officers.
   Sec.
3.8.   Appointment of officers and assistants.
   Sec.
3.9.   Town Manager.
   Sec.
3.10.   Town Attorney.
   Sec.
3.11.   Town Clerk.
   Sec.
3.12.   Town Treasurer.
   Sec.
3.13.   Reserved.
   Sec.
3.14.   Reserved.
   Sec.
3.15.   Combination of offices of Town Treasurer and Town Clerk.
   Sec.
3.16.   Terms of commissions, committees, and boards.
Article IV. [Reserved]
Article V. [Reserved]
Article VI. Street and Sidewalk Improvements
   Sec.
6.1.   Street improvements; assessment of cost.
   Sec.
6.2.   When petition unnecessary.
   Sec.
6.3.   Street improvement defined.
   Sec.
6.4.   Sidewalks; assessment of cost.
   Sec.
6.5.   Assessment procedure.
   Sec.
6.6.   Effect of assessment.
Article VII. Finance and Taxation
   Sec.
7.1.   Custody of Town money.
   Sec.
7.2.   Independent audit.
   Sec.
7.3.   Reserved.
   Sec.
7.4.   Road project regulatory or development fee.
Article VIII. Water and Sewer Improvements
   Sec.
8.1.   Laterals included in cost.
   Sec.
8.2.   Classification and exemption.
   Sec.
8.3.   Alternative method of assessing.
   Sec.
8.4.   Payment of assessments.
   Sec.
8.5.   Water and sewer development fees.
Article IX. Regulatory Powers
   Sec.
9.1.   Subdivision and zoning regulations.
   Sec.
9.2.   Regulatory codes.
   Sec.
9.3.   Underground utilities.
   Sec.
9.4.   [Repealed].
Article X. Claims Against the Town
   Sec.
10.1.   Settlement of claims by Town Manager.
Article XI. Sale, Lease, and Disposition of Property
   Sec.
11.1.   Disposition of certain property by Town Manager.
   Sec.
11.2.   Granting of utility easements and agreements.
   Sec.
11.3.   Conveyance of real property with restrictions.
Appendix 1: Local Act Adopting Charter
   App.
1.1.   An Act to Update the Charter of the Town of Cary.
Appendix 2: Incorporation of Local Acts into Charter
   App.
2.1.   Procedure for permanently closing streets and alleys.
   App.
2.2.   Acquisition of property outside corporate limits.
   App.
2.3.   Motor vehicle taxes.
   App.
2.4.   Compliance with Swift Creek Management Plan.
   App.
2.5.   Ordinances regulating trees and shrubs generally.
   App.
2.6.   Ordinances regulating clear-cutting of trees in buffer zones and
protection of specimen tree.
   App.
2.7.   Construction of roadways outside corporate limits.
   App.
2.8.   Traffic control photographic system (red light cameras).
   App.
2.9.   Issuing licenses for closing-out sales in accordance with N.C. General
Statutes Article 17, Chapter 66.
   App.
2.10.   Acquisition of utility rights-of-way when acquiring street rights-of-
way.
   App.
2.11.   Reimbursement of developers for design and construction of public
infrastructure.
   App.
2.12.   Standing of Town to enforce Swift Creek Management Plan.
   App.
2.13.   Ordinances regulating demolition of historic structures in their
historic districts.
   App.
2.14.   Authority to require developers of multifamily units to provide funds
for recreational land to serve multifamily developments.
   App.
2.15.   Electronic public notice for certain public hearings.
   App.
2.16.   Development incentives in exchange for reductions in energy
consumption.
   App.
2.17.   Town e-mail subscription lists; review and use of.
   App.
2.18.   Exempting bona fide farms from obtaining building permits for accessory
buildings in the Extraterritorial Jurisdiction.
   App.
2.19.   Exempting Town from competitive bidding requirements for apparatus,
supplies, materials, or equipment that will be used as part of certain pilot
programs aimed at increasing energy efficiency.
   App.
2.20.   Entering into leases for the siting and operation of a renewable energy
facility.
   App.
2.21.   Broaden the exception to the public records act for identifying
information of minors participating in local government parks and recreation
programs to include all local government programs and also to protect email
addresses of minors in such programs in the Towns of Apex, Cary, Fuquay-Varina,
Garner, Holly Springs, Knightdale, Morrisville, Rolesville, Wake Forest,
Wendell, and Zebulon, and the City of Raleigh.
   App.
2.22.   Exempting the Wake County Public School System and qualified nonpublic
schools of Wake County from development charges related to the construction,
renovation, and repair of school infrastructure facilities in Wake County and
the municipalities therein.
   App.
2.23.   Requiring approval of the Board of Commissioners of Chatham County
before the Towns of Apex or Cary may make an involuntary annexation into
Chatham County.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND GENERAL POWERS
Section 1.1. Incorporation and general powers.
   The Town of Cary shall continue to be a body politic and corporate under the
name and style of the "Town of Cary," and shall continue to be vested with all
property and rights which now belong to the Town; shall have perpetual
succession; may have a common seal and alter and renew the same at pleasure;
may sue and be sued; may contract, may acquire and hold all such property, real
and personal, as may be devised, bequeathed, sold, or in any manner conveyed or
dedicated to it, or otherwise acquired by it, and may from time to time hold or
invest, sell, or dispose of the same; and shall have and may exercise in
conformity with this Charter all municipal powers, functions, rights,
privileges, and immunities of every name and nature.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(1.1))
   State law reference—General corporate powers, G.S. 160A-11.
Section 1.2. Enumerated powers not exclusive.
   The enumeration of particular powers by this Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive but, in addition to the powers enumerated herein or
implied hereby, or those appropriate to the exercise of such powers, the Town
of Cary shall have and may exercise all powers which are granted to municipal
corporations by the general laws of North Carolina and all powers which, under
the Constitution of North Carolina, it would be competent for this Charter
specifically to enumerate.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(1.2))
Section 1.3. Exercise of powers.
   All powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of the Town, its
officers, agencies, or employees, shall be carried into execution as provided
by this Charter, or if this Charter makes no provision, as provided by
ordinance or resolution of the Town Council and as provided by general law
pertaining to municipal corporations.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(1.3))
Section 1.4. Form of government.
   The form of government of the Town of Cary shall be known as the "Council-
Manager Form of Government", as set forth in Part 2 of Article 7 of Chapter
160A of the General Statutes (G.S. 160A-147 et seq.) subject to the
modifications of this Charter. Nothing contained in this Charter shall be
construed to prevent the form of government of the Town of Cary from being
changed as by law provided.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(1.4))
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
Section 2.1. Existing corporate boundaries.
   The corporate limits of the Town shall be those existing at the time of the
ratification of this Charter and as the same may be altered from time to time
in accordance with law. The Town Planning Director shall prepare a map to be
designated "Map of the Town of Cary Corporate Limits" showing the corporate
limits as the same may exist as of the effective date of this Charter. The Town
Planning Director may also prepare a written description of the corporate
limits as shown on said map to be designated "Description of Cary Corporate
Limits". Said map and description shall be retained permanently in the Office
of the Town Clerk as the official map and a description of the corporate limits
of the Town. Immediately upon alteration of the corporate limits made pursuant
to law from time to time, the Town Planning Director shall indicate such
alteration by making appropriate changes and/or additions to said official map
and description. Photographic or other types of copies of said official map or
description certified as by law provided for the certification of ordinances
shall be admitted in evidence in all courts and shall have the same force and
effect as would the official map or description.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(2.1))
   State law reference—Corporate limits generally, G.S. 160-22.
Section 2.2. Extension of corporate boundaries.
   All extensions of the corporate boundaries shall be governed by general law.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(2.2))
   State law reference—Annexation, G.S. 160A-29 et seq.
ARTICLE III. MAYOR, TOWN COUNCIL AND APPOINTEES
Section 3.1. Form of government.
   The government of the Town and the general management and control of all its
affairs shall be vested in a Town Council, which shall be elected and shall
exercise its powers in the manner hereinafter provided, except that the Town
Manager shall have the authority hereinafter specified.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.1))
Section 3.2. Number and qualification of Council members and Mayor generally.
   (a)   The Town Council shall consist of six members, two of whom shall be
elected at large by all the qualified voters of the Town, and four of whom
shall be elected by the qualified voters of each of four single-member
electoral districts, respectively, as established by the Town Council pursuant
to the law. Terms of Council members shall be overlapping four-year terms. In
the 2001 election and quadrennially thereafter, there shall be elected, for
four-year terms, one Council member from Electoral District A, one Council
member from Electoral District C, and one Council member from the Town at
large. In the 2003 election and quadrennially thereafter, there shall be
elected, for four-year terms, one Council member from Electoral District B, one
Council member from Electoral District D, and one Council member from the Town
at large.
   (b)   The Mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the Town,
for a term of four years, in the 2003 election and quadrennially thereafter.
The Mayor shall have the right to vote on all matters before the Town Council.
   (c)   The method of election of the Mayor and Town Council shall be the
nonpartisan plurality method to be conducted as provided in G.S. 163-292.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.2); Ord. No. 2024-Charter-01, 8-22-2024)
Section 3.3. Legislative powers.
   All the legislative powers of the Town shall be vested in the Mayor and Town
Council. The Mayor and Town Council shall meet at the time prescribed by law
following each election, and those elected shall take the oath of office as
prescribed by law to perform faithfully the duties of their respective offices.
The Mayor shall have all rights, duties, and responsibilities of a Council
member. A Mayor Pro Tempore shall be elected by the Town Council from among its
own members and shall hold office as Mayor Pro Tempore during the pleasure of
the Council. The organization of the Council shall take place notwithstanding
the absence, death, refusal to serve, failure to qualify, or nonelection of one
or more members, but at least a quorum of the members must be present. Any
member entitled to make the aforesaid oath, who was not present at the time
fixed therefore, may make oath at any time thereafter.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.3))
Section 3.4. Reserved.
   Editor’s note: This section was omitted in S.L. 2005-117.
Section 3.5. General procedure.
   A majority of the members of the Town Council shall constitute a quorum. Its
meetings shall be public, and the Mayor, who shall be the official head of the
Town, shall, if present, preside and shall have the same power as the other
members of the Council to vote upon all measures coming before it, but shall
have no power of veto. In the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore of
the Council shall preside, and in the absence of both, a Chair Pro Tempore
shall be chosen. The Town Clerk shall be ex officio Clerk of the Town Council,
and shall keep records of its proceedings; but in case of the Clerk's temporary
absence, or in case of a vacancy in the office, the Town Council may elect by
ballot a temporary Clerk, who shall be sworn to the faithful discharge of his
duties and may act as Clerk of the Town Council until a Town Clerk is chosen
and qualified. On request of one member, the vote shall be yeas, and nays, and
shall be entered upon the records.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.5))
Section 3.6. Vacancies.
   Vacancies in the Town Council shall be filled by the Council for the
remainder of the unexpired terms. In case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor,
the remaining members of the Council shall choose from their own number his
successor for the unexpired term.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.6))
Section 3.7. Compensation and reimbursement for expenses of elected officers.
   The Council may fix its own compensation and the compensation of the Mayor
and any other elected officers of the Town, in such sums as may be just and
reasonable. Adjustments in the compensation of the Mayor and any other elected
officers may be made effective at such time as the Council may direct, but the
salary of elected officers shall not be reduced during the then current term of
office unless he shall agree thereto. Elected officers shall be entitled to
reimbursement for actual expenses incurred in the course of performing their
official duties at rates not in excess of those allowed to other Town officers
and employees.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.7))
Section 3.8. Appointment of officers and assistants.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Manager, a Town Attorney, a Town
Clerk, and a Town Treasurer, and may authorize the appointment of such
associates or assistants to such officers as the Council may deem necessary,
all who shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council and receive such
compensation as the Council may provide.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.8))
Section 3.9. Town Manager.
   (a)   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Manager, who shall be the
administrative head of the Town government, and shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments. The manager shall be appointed with regard
to executive and administrative abilities only and need not be a resident of
the Town when appointed. The manager shall hold office at the pleasure of the
Town Council and shall receive such compensation as it shall fix by ordinance.
   (b)   The Town Manager shall:
   (1)   Be the administrative head of the Town government;
   (2)   See that within the Town the laws of the State and the ordinances,
resolutions, and regulations of the Council are faithfully executed;
   (3)   Attend all meetings of the Council, and recommend for adoption such
measures as he shall deem expedient;
   (4)   Make reports to the Council from time to time upon the affairs of the
Town and keep the Council fully advised of the Town's financial condition and
its future financial needs.
   (5)   Appoint and remove all heads of departments, except those employees
enumerated in Section 3.8 of this Charter, who shall be appointed by and serve
at the pleasure of the Town Council.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.9))
   State law reference(s)—Town manager, G.S. 160A-146 et seq.
Section 3.10. Town Attorney.
   The Town Attorney shall be the legal advisor to the Town and perform such
duties as may be specified by the Council or specified by law. The attorney
shall be appointed with regard to merit only and need not be a resident of the
Town when appointed. The attorney shall hold office at the pleasure of the Town
Council and shall receive such compensation as it shall fix by ordinance.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.10))
   State law reference(s)—Municipal attorney, G.S. 160A-173.
Section 3.11. Town Clerk.
   The Town Clerk shall be the Clerk to the Town Council, keep all records
concerning Council actions and shall exercise those powers and duties conferred
by the law and shall perform such duties as may be specified by the Council.
The Clerk shall be appointed with regard to merit only, and need not be a
resident of the Town when appointed. The Clerk shall hold office at the
pleasure of the Town Council and shall receive such compensation as it shall
fix by ordinance.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.11))
   State law reference(s)—Municipal clerk, G.S. 160A-171.
Section 3.12. Town Treasurer.
   (a)   The Town Treasurer shall be appointed with regard to merit only and
need not be a resident of the Town when appointed. The Treasurer shall hold
office at the pleasure of the Town Council and shall receive such compensation
as it shall fix by ordinance. The Town Treasurer shall be custodian of all
funds of the Town.
   (b)   The Treasurer shall execute a bond payable to the Town, and at its
expense, in such sum and with such sureties as shall be prescribed and approved
by the Council conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the
office and proper accounting of all funds that may come into this person's
possession by virtue of the office. Duties of the Treasurer include:
   (1)   Manage the cash flows of the Town.
   (2)   Be responsible for the investment of excess cash under the direction
of the Finance Director.
   (3)   Keep appropriate records for cash flow and investments.
   (4)   Make reports as requested by the Town Manager, the Finance Director,
and the Council.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.12))
Section 3.13. Reserved.
   Editor’s note: This section was omitted in S.L. 2005-117.
Section 3.14. Reserved.
   Editor’s note: This section was omitted in S.L. 2005-117.
Section 3.15. Combination of offices of Town Treasurer and Town Clerk.
   The Town Council may combine the office of Town Treasurer with the office of
Town Clerk in its sole discretion.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.15))
Section 3.16. Terms of commissions, committees, and boards.
   The Town Council may:
   (1)   Fix the terms of members of all commissions, committees, and boards of
the Town regardless of the terms established by law for particular commissions,
committees or boards;
   (2)   Appoint the chair or other presiding officer of each commission,
committee, or board of the Town, regardless of the provisions of any law; and
   (3)   Limit the number of terms which any person may serve on any
commission, committee, or board of the Town.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(3.16))
ARTICLE IV. [RESERVED]
   Editor’s note: This article was omitted in S.L. 2005-117.
ARTICLE V. [RESERVED]
   Editor’s note: This article was omitted in S.L. 2005-117.
ARTICLE VI. STREET AND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS*
Section 6.1. Street improvements; assessment of cost.
   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted by
general law to the Town for making street improvements, the Town Council may
make street improvements and assess the cost thereof against abutting property
owners in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(6.1))
               
   *State law reference(s)—Special assessments, G.S. 160A-216 et seq.;
construction of sidewalks, G.S. 136-66.1.
Section 6.2. When petition unnecessary.
   The Town Council may order street improvements and assess the cost thereof,
exclusive of the cost incurred at street intersections, against the abutting
property owners at an equal rate per front foot, without the necessity of a
petition, upon the finding by the Council as a fact:
   (1)   That such street or part thereof is unsafe for vehicular traffic, and
it is in the public interest to make such improvement, or
   (2)   That it is in the public interest to connect two streets, or portions
of a street already improved, or
   (3)   That it is in the public interest to widen a street, or part thereof,
which is already improved; provided, that assessments for widening any street
or portions of street without petition shall be limited to the cost of widening
and otherwise improving such street in accordance with the street
classification and improvement standards established by the Town's thoroughfare
or major street plan for the particular street or part thereof to be widened
and improved under the authority granted by this article.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(6.2))
Section 6.3. Street improvement defined.
   For the purpose of this article the term "street improvement" shall include
grading, regrading, surfacing, resurfacing, widening, paving, repaving, the
acquisition of right-of-way, and the construction or reconstruction of curb,
gutters, and street drainage facilities.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(6.3))
Section 6.4. Sidewalks; assessment of cost.
   (a)   In addition to any authority which is now or may hereafter be granted
by the General Statutes to the Town for making sidewalk improvements, the Town
Council may order to be made or to make sidewalk improvements or repairs
without petition according to standards and specifications of the Town, and to
assess the total cost thereof against abutting property owners.
   (b)   If a sidewalk is constructed on only one side of a street, the cost
thereof may be assessed against a property abutting on both sides of the
street, unless there already exists a sidewalk, on the other side of the
street, the total cost of which has been assessed against the abutting
property.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(6.4))
Section 6.5. Assessment procedure.
   In ordering street and sidewalk improvements without a petition and
assessing the cost thereof under authority of this article, the Town Council
shall comply with the procedure provided in the General Statutes, except those
provisions relating to the petition of property owners and the sufficiency
thereof.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(6.5))
Section 6.6. Effect of assessment.
   The effect of the act of levying assessments under the authority of this
article shall for all purposes be the same as if assessed where levied under
authority of general law.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(6.6))
ARTICLE VII. FINANCE AND TAXATION*
              
   *State law reference(s) Local government finance, G.S. 159-1 et seq.;
municipal taxation, G.S. 160A-206 et seq.
Section 7.1. Custody of Town money.
   All monies received by the Town for and in connection with the business of
the Town government shall be paid promptly into the Town depository or
depositories. Such institution shall be designated by the Town Council in
accordance with such regulations and subject to such requirements as to surety
for deposits and interest thereon as shall be established by general law. All
interest on monies belonging to the Town shall accrue to the benefit of the
Town. All monies belonging to the Town shall be disbursed only in accordance
with the provisions of the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act (G.S.
159-7 et seq.).
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(7.1))
   State law reference(s)—Depositories, G.S. 159-31.
Section 7.2. Independent audit.
   As soon as practicable after the close of each fiscal year, an independent
audit shall be made of all books and accounts of the Town government by a
certified public accountant or a qualified public accountant registered
pursuant to general law, who shall have no personal interest directly or
indirectly in the affairs of the Town or any of its officers. The Town Council
shall select the public accountant and the results of such audit shall be made
available for inspection by any interested citizen of the Town, and may be
published if so ordered by the Town Council.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(7.2))
Section 7.3. Reserved.
   Editor’s note: This section was omitted in S.L. 2005-117.
Section 7.4. Road project regulatory or development fee.
   (a)   The Town of Cary shall have the right, power, and authority to impose
and collect a regulatory or development fee defined as a road project fee on
all new construction within the Town limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (b)   It is the purpose and intent of this section to provide the Town with
the legal mechanism granting it the right, power, and authority to impose and
collect fees to finance additional improvements within the Town limits and
extraterritorial jurisdiction. These additional road improvements being caused
by rapid and continued growth within the Cary area. This section provides
approval to the Town to actually develop and implement such a fee system, but
does not in any way, describe or detail the actual fee structure and rate
classification. An extensive study will subsequently be performed to establish
the basis and framework for the fee system should the system be deemed
necessary in order to maintain the high level of service delivery presently
available to Cary residents.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(7.4))
ARTICLE VIII. WATER AND SEWER IMPROVEMENTS
Section 8.1. Laterals included in cost.
   In ordering water or sewer line extensions, or both, the assessment of the
cost thereof under the authority given by the General Statutes, the Town
Council may include in such extensions water and sewer line laterals, and
include the cost of such laterals in the total cost to be assessed upon
abutting properties.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(8.1))
Section 8.2. Classification and exemption.
   Where water or sewer lines are constructed across or through lots or tracts
of land or when water or sewer lines, or both, are installed along both sides
of corner lots and were or are financed in whole or in part by assessment, the
Council may by uniform rule classify such lines for assessment as in its
judgment will represent the benefits derived. The schedules of exemptions may
be classified as to land uses (residential, business, commercial, industrial,
office and institutional, agricultural, or other classifications) and shall be
uniform for each such classification used; provided, however, that no schedule
of exemptions may provide for exemption of more than seventy-five percent (75%)
of the frontage of any side of a corner lot, or 150 feet, whichever is greater.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(8.2))
Section 8.3. Alternative method of assessing.
   (a)   In addition to, and as alternatives to, the method provided in the
General Statutes for assessing the cost of water and sewer lines and laterals,
the Town Council, if in its opinion it would be more equitable to do so, may in
its discretion levy any such assessments according to either of the following
methods:
   (1)   Equally against each of the lots capable of being served by such line
or lines; or
   (2)   On the basis of the footage of land upon a public street by an equal
rate per foot of such frontage.
   (b)   In lieu of assessing the total cost of a particular project as herein
provided, the Town Council may annually, between the first days of January and
July of each year, determine the average cost of installing water and sewer
mains or lines, and on the basis of such determination may make assessments on
such average cost during the following fiscal year beginning July 1. The
average cost of such installation shall include the cost of the particular size
and material of lines completed during the preceding calendar year. It may also
include the anticipated increase in labor and materials cost based upon the
average of such increases during the preceding five calendar years. The
assessment of the average cost of such lines shall not be made until after the
particular assessment project has been completed. The purposes of this section
are to distribute more equitably the cost of the installation of water and
sewer lines throughout the Town and to permit a property owner to know in
advance what the cost of installation of water and sewer lines benefiting his
property will be; and to permit the most expeditious assessment of cost against
the property after completion of installation of such lines. The actual cost of
acquisition of rights-of-way may also be assessed as part of the cost of an
individual project. If the right-of-way costs have not been determined and
assessed with the assessment of the average installation cost at the time of
the completion of the project, such costs may be assessed separately when they
are determined.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(8.3))
Section 8.4. Payment of assessments.
   Any special assessment of the Town for any purpose amounting to less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid in cash not later than the next due
date of Town taxes rather than in annual installments and shall bear interest
as taxes.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(8.4))
Section 8.5. Water and sewer development fees.
[Editor's note: Please see G.S. Ch. 162A, Article 8]
   In addition to water and sewer service charges and connection charges, the
Town Council may establish and collect water and sewer development fees for the
privilege of connecting to the Town water and sewerage systems, both within and
outside the corporate limits, to aid in the financing of new water and sewer
mains and laterals and sewer outfalls and the replacement or enlargement of
existing mains, laterals, and outfalls. Such charges shall apply uniformly to
all properties to which water or sewer service is extended subsequent to the
establishment of such charges; provided, however, that the Council may
establish higher water and sewer development fees for property developed or to
be developed for business, commercial, industrial, or office and institutional
uses than those established for residential and other uses and may base water
and sewer development fees for residential property upon the number of dwelling
units per acre of land.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(8.5))
ARTICLE IX. REGULATORY POWERS
Section 9.1. Subdivision and zoning regulations.
   (a)   Any subdivision control ordinance enacted by the Town Council pursuant
to general law may also provide for the orderly development of subdivisions by
requiring the construction of community service facilities, including water
lines; sewer lines; street paving, curbing, and guttering; and street and storm
drainage facilities in accordance with Town standards and specifications, and
to assure compliance with such requirements, the ordinance may require the
posting of bond or such other method as will offer guarantee of compliance.
   (b)   (1)   In addition to the authority conferred upon it by general or
local law, the Town of Cary may create, through the legislative process,
general use zoning districts, in which a variety of uses are permitted;
conditional use zoning districts, in which limited uses are permitted only upon
approval by the Town; overlay zoning districts, which are applied coincidental
with the general or conditional use district; and transitional zoning
regulations.
   (2)   The overlay zoning districts may impose additional regulations on some
property within the underlying general or conditional use district and not on
all properties within those districts.
   (3)   A person petitioning for rezoning of a tract of land where conditional
use districts or overlay districts are authorized by ordinance, may elect to
request a general use district, a conditional use district, or an overlay
district for the tract. If the petitioner elects to petition for the general
use or overlay district zoning, and if the petition is approved, the rezoned
property may be used for any of the uses permitted in the applicable general
use or overlay district. If the petitioner elects to petition for conditional
use district zoning, the petition must specify the actual use or uses, and all
other development regulations authorized by State law, which are intended for
the property specified in the petition. The intended use or uses and
development regulations must be permitted in the corresponding general use
district. If the petition is for conditional use district zoning, the Town
Council is to approve or disapprove the petition on the basis of the specific
use or uses and development regulations requested. If the petition is approved,
the Town Council shall issue a conditional use permit authorizing the requested
use with such reasonable conditions as the Town Council determines to be
desirable in promoting public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (4)   The conditions contained in a conditional use permit issued by the
Town Council may include: location of the proposed use on the property; the
number of dwelling units; the location and extent of support facilities such as
parking lots, driveways, and access streets; location and extent of buffer
areas and other special purpose areas; the timing of development; and such
other matters as the Town Council may find appropriate or the petitioner may
propose, including architectural review or controls.
   (5)   It is the further intent of this section to permit the creation of
districts for specific uses and the imposition of reasonable conditions in
order to secure the public health, safety and welfare, and ensure that
substantial justice be done.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(9.1))
   State law reference(s)—Planning and development, G.S. 160A-206.
Section 9.2. Regulatory codes.
   The Town Council may make effective and enforce within the territory under
its extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction and lying outside the corporate limits
and within one mile thereof, all ordinances and codes of the Town regulating
the construction and repair of buildings, including building codes, plumbing
codes, electrical codes, heating and air conditioning codes, fire prevention
codes, minimum housing codes adopted pursuant to the General Statutes, and
ordinances relating to unsafe buildings adopted pursuant to the provisions of
the General Statutes. In addition, the Town Council may enforce in such area
the North Carolina State Building Codes, including Accessibility, Plumbing,
Mechanical, Electrical, Fire Prevention, Fuel Gas, Energy, Existing Buildings,
and Residential, all as published by the North Carolina Building Code Council.
Such enforcement power shall include the power to require that prior to the
beginning of any construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or
structure or any part or system thereof within such area, the appropriate
permit or permits be obtained from the Town; provided, the Town Council may by
ordinance require that the contractor or other person charged with such
construction, reconstruction, or alteration secure such permit or permits,
rather than requiring the owner of the property to do so.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(9.2))
Section 9.3. Underground utilities.
   In addition to the powers now or hereafter granted to municipalities by law,
the Town Council by ordinance may require that all utility or other pipes,
wiring, conduits, cables, and fixtures installed after the adoption of such
ordinance within the planning and zoning jurisdiction of the Town be installed
underground, whether or not the same are installed in public rights-of-way.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(9.3))
Section 9.4. Repealed.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(9.4); N.C.S.L. Ch. 2009-459)
ARTICLE X. CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN
Section 10.1. Settlement of claims by Town Manager.
   The Town Manager may, without the approval of the Town Council, settle
claims against the Town for personal injuries or damages to property when the
amount involved does not exceed the sum of two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) and does not exceed the actual loss sustained, including loss of
time, medical expenses, and any other expense actually incurred. Settlement of
a claim by the Town Manager pursuant to this section shall constitute a
complete release of the Town from any and all damages sustained by the person
involved in such settlement in any manner arising out of the accident or
occasion complained of.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, § 1(10.1))
ARTICLE XI. SALE, LEASE, AND DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY
Section 11.1. Disposition of certain property by Town Manager.
   (a)   The Town Council may authorize the City Manager or Deputy City Manager
to dispose of all the following property interests without obtaining Town
Council approval for each disposition:
      (1)   Water or sewer easements, or similar interests in real property, as
part of an exchange for other water and sewer easements or similar interests in
property.
      (2)   Water or sewer easements, or similar interests in real property,
when the easement or similar interest in real property is no longer needed by
the Town.
   (b)   The provisions of Article 12 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes
shall not apply to the disposition of property under this section.
(N.C.S.L. 2015-84; Ord. No. 2015-Code-07, 6-18-2015)
Section 11.2. Granting of utility easements and agreements.
   The Town Council may authorize the Town Manager or Deputy Town Manager to
grant utility easements and agreements, or similar interests, in real property
over Town-owned property without obtaining Town Council approval.
(N.C.S.L. 2016-68, 7-1-2016)
Section 11.3. Conveyance of real property with restrictions.
   When the Town Council determines that a sale or disposition of real property
is in the public interest, the Town may, in addition to other authorized means,
sell, exchange, or transfer the fee or any lesser interest in real property,
either by public sale or by negotiated private sale. The Town may attach to the
transfer and to the interest conveyed any covenants, conditions, or
restrictions, or a combination of them, the Town deems necessary to further the
public interest. The consideration received by the Town, if any, for the
conveyance may reflect the restricted use of the property resulting from the
covenants, conditions, or restrictions. The Town may invite bids or written
proposals, including detailed development plans and site plans, for the
purchase of any such property or property interest, whether by sale, exchange,
or other transfer, pursuant to the specifications as may be approved by the
Town. A sale, exchange, or other transfer of real property, or interest
therein, pursuant to this section may be made contingent upon any necessary
rezoning of the property. Any conveyance under this section may be made only
pursuant to a resolution of the Town Council authorizing the conveyance. Notice
of the proposed transaction shall be given at least 10 days prior to adoption
of the resolution by publication, and the notice shall generally describe (i)
the property involved, (ii) the nature of the interest to be conveyed, and
(iii) all of the material terms of the proposed transaction, including any
covenants, conditions, or restrictions which may be applicable. The notice
shall give the time and place of the Town Council meeting where the proposed
transaction will be considered and shall announce the Council's intention to
authorize the proposed transaction. The authority contained in this section is
in addition to, and not in limitation of, any other authority granted by this
Charter or any other general or local law.
(N.C.S.L. 2016-68, 7-1-2016)
APPENDIX 1: LOCAL ACT ADOPTING CHARTER
App. 1.1. An Act to Update the Charter of the Town of Cary.
   (a)   The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the Town of Cary
and to consolidate herein certain acts concerning the property, affairs, and
government of the Town.
   (b)   The following acts or portions of acts, having served the purposes for
which they were enacted, or having been consolidated into this act, are hereby
repealed:
      Chapter 868 of the 1971 Session Laws
      Chapter 173 of the 1973 Session Laws
      Chapter 357 of the 1973 Session Laws
      Chapter 816 of the 1977 Session Laws
      Chapter 51 of the 1985 Session Laws
      Chapter 801 of the 1987 Session Laws
      Chapter 511 of the 1989 Session Laws
      Chapter 874 of the 1989 Session Laws
      Section 3 of S.L. 2001-485.
   (c)   The following acts are not affected by this act:
      Chapter 1275, Session Laws of 1979 (removal of areas from the corporate
limits)
      Chapter 279, Session Laws of 1989 (closing streets in ETJ)
      Chapter 27, Session Laws of 1993 (removal of areas from the corporate
limits and addition of areas to the corporate limits)
      Chapter 137, Session Laws of 1993 (acquisition of street right-of-way
outside the corporate limits)
      Chapter 325, Session Laws of 1993 (motor vehicle tax)
      S.L. 1998-192 (Swift Creek Management Plan)
      S.L. 2000-108 (removal, replacement, and preservation of trees and
shrubs)
      S.L. 2001-191 (clear-cutting of trees in buffer zones, protection of
specimen trees)
      S.L. 2001-245 (expending funds on roads outside the corporate limits)
      S.L. 2003-74 (acquisition of property for utilities)
      S.L. 2001-286 (red-light cameras)
      S.L. 2005-41 (reimbursement agreements).
   (d)   No provision of this act is intended, nor shall be construed, to
affect in any way any rights or interests (whether public or private):
   (1)   Now vested or accrued, in whole or in part, the validity of which
might be sustained or preserved by reference to any provisions of law repealed
by this act.
   (2)   Derived from, or which might be sustained or preserved in reliance
upon, action heretofore taken pursuant to or within the scope of any provisions
of law repealed by this act.
   (e)   No law heretofore repealed expressly or by implication, and no law
granting authority which has been exhausted, shall be revived by:
   (1)   The repeal herein of any act repealing such law, or
   (2)   Any provision of this act that disclaims an intention to repeal or
affect enumerated or designated laws.
   (f)   All existing ordinances and resolutions of the Town of Cary and all
existing rules or regulations of departments or agencies of the Town of Cary
not inconsistent with the provisions of this act shall continue in full force
and effect until repealed, modified, or amended.
   (g)   No action or proceeding of any nature (whether civil or criminal,
judicial or administrative, or otherwise) pending at the effective date of this
act by or against the Town of Cary or any of its departments or agencies shall
be abated or otherwise affected by the adoption of this act.
   (h)   If any part of this act or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this act which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act
are declared to be severable.
   (i)   Whenever a reference is made in this act to a particular provision of
the General Statutes and such provision is later amended, repealed, or
superseded, the reference shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended
General Statute or to the General Statute that most nearly corresponds to the
statutory provision amended, repealed, or superseded.
   (j)   This act is effective when it becomes law.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-117, §§ 2 – 11)
APPENDIX 2: INCORPORATION OF LOCAL ACTS INTO CHARTER
App. 2.1. Procedure for permanently closing streets and alleys.
   (a)   When the Town of Cary proposes to permanently close any street or
public alley, the Council shall first adopt a resolution declaring its intent
to close the street or alley and calling a public hearing on the question. The
resolution shall be published once a week for four successive weeks prior to
the hearing, a copy thereof shall be sent by registered or certified mail to
all owners of property adjoining the street or alley as shown on the county tax
records, and a notice of the closing and public hearing shall be prominently
posted in at least two places along the street or alley. If the street or alley
is under the authority and control of the Department of Transportation, a copy
of the resolution shall be mailed to the Department of Transportation. At the
hearing, any person may be heard on the question of whether or not the closing
would be detrimental to the public interest, or the property rights of any
individual. If it appears to the satisfaction of the Council after the hearing
that closing the street or alley is not contrary to the public interest, and
that no individual owning property in the vicinity of the street or alley or in
the subdivision in which it is located would thereby be deprived of reasonable
means of ingress and egress to his property, the Council may adopt an order
closing the street or alley. A certified copy of the order (or judgment of the
court) shall be filed in the office of the register of deeds of the county in
which the street, or any portion thereof, is located.
   (b)   Any person aggrieved by the closing of any street or alley including
the Department of Transportation if the street or alley is under its authority
and control, may appeal the Council's order to the General Court of Justice
within 30 days after its adoption. The court shall hear the matter de novo, and
shall have full jurisdiction to try the issues arising and to order the street
or alley closed upon proper findings of fact by the jury. No cause of action or
defense founded upon the invalidity of any proceedings taken in closing any
street or alley may be asserted, nor shall the validity of the order be open to
question in any court upon any ground whatever, except in an action or
proceeding begun within 30 days after the order is adopted.
   (c)   Upon the closing of a street or alley in accordance with this section,
subject to the provisions of subsection (f) of this section, all right, title,
and interest in the right-of-way shall be conclusively presumed to be vested in
those persons owning lots or parcels of land adjacent to the street or alley,
and the title of such adjoining landowners, for the width of the abutting land
owned by them, shall extend to the centerline of the street or alley.
   (d)   This section shall apply to any street or public alley within the Town
of Cary that has been irrevocably dedicated to the public, without regard to
whether it has actually been opened.
   (e)   No street or alley under the control of the Department of
Transportation may be closed unless the Department of Transportation consents
thereto.
   (f)   The Town of Cary may reserve its right, title, and interest in any
utility improvement or easement within a street closed pursuant to this
section. Such reservation shall be stated in the order of closing.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 1989-279)
App. 2.2. Acquisition of property outside corporate limits.
   (a)   The Town of Cary may acquire by purchase or eminent domain the fee or
any lesser interest in real property, which is located outside the corporate
limits of the Town of Cary, for use under G.S. 160A-296(a)(3) only if the
street for which right-of-way is to be acquired is in a comprehensive plan
adopted under G.S. 136-66.2, and for which an agreement for right-of-way
acquisition has been reached under G.S. 136-66.3.
   (b)   Acquisition of property outside the corporate limits by purchase or
condemnation under subsection (a) of this section may be exercised only as
provided by G.S. 160A-240.1(b).
   (c)   The Town of Cary may acquire property outside its corporate limits by
purchase or eminent domain under G.S. 160A-296(a)(3) only as provided by G.S.
160A-240.1(b).
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 1993-137; Ord. No. 06-001, § 5, 2-9-2006)
App. 2.3. Motor vehicle taxes.
[Editor's note: Please see G.S. 20-97 (revised) and 160A-3]
   All taxes levied under the provisions of Article 3, Chapter 20 of the North
Carolina General Statutes (G.S. 20-39 et seq.) are intended as compensatory
taxes for the use and privileges of the public highways of the State of North
Carolina, and shall be paid by the Commissioner to the State Treasurer, to be
credited by him to the State Highway Fund; and the Town of Cary shall not levy
any license or privilege tax upon any motor vehicle licensed by the State of
North Carolina, except that the Town of Cary may levy not more than ten dollars
($10.00) per year upon any vehicle resident therein. Provided, further, that
the Town of Cary may levy, in addition to the amounts hereinabove provided for,
a sum not to exceed fifteen dollars ($15.00) per year upon each vehicle
operated in the Town of Cary as a taxicab.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 1993-325; Ord. No. 06-001, § 6, 2-9-2006)
App. 2.4. Compliance with Swift Creek Management Plan.
   (a)   The Town of Cary shall not adopt any ordinance authorized by Article
18 of Chapter 153A of the General Statutes (G.S. 153A-320 et seq.), Article 19
of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes (G.S. 160A-360 et seq.), or under any
local Act or Charter provision relating to the subject of those Articles, nor
grant any permit or approval pursuant to those ordinances, that would be
inconsistent with the standards and provisions of the Swift Creek Management
Plan.
   (b)   This section applies to any zoning map amendment and to any other
zoning amendment, modification, repeal, or changes in zoning regulations and
restrictions or zone boundaries relating to the area set forth in the Swift
Creek Management Plan, but shall not be construed to prevent the Town of Cary
from adopting zoning ordinance text changes.
   (c)   This section shall not affect any valid and unexpired vested right of
any landowner arising by law pursuant to G.S. 153A-344.1 or G.S. 160A-385.1,
nor shall this section affect the right of any person to protest zoning changes
or otherwise appeal planning, subdivision, or zoning actions as provided by
Article 18 of Chapter 153A of the General Statutes (G.S. 153A-320 et seq.), or
Article 19 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes (G.S. 160A-360 et seq.), or
by local ordinance.
   (d)   If the Town of Cary has an ordinance to effectuate the recommended
minimum performance standards for the Swift Creek Watershed and the other
specific features set forth in the Swift Creek Management Plan, then the Town
of Cary may modify its zoning ordinance to further meet or exceed the
requirements of the Swift Creek Management Plan. The Swift Creek Management
Plan may be modified by interlocal agreement pursuant to Article 20 of Chapter
160A of the General Statutes entered into by all of the affected jurisdictions.
   (e)   The Town of Cary may extend utilities unilaterally to any portion of
its jurisdiction subject to the Swift Creek Management Plan provided that,
prior to October 22, 1998, the Town of Cary zoned or rezoned the subject area
in anticipation of providing utilities to the area.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 1998-192; Ord. No. 06-001, § 7, 2-9-2006)
App. 2.5. Ordinances regulating trees and shrubs generally.
   (a)   In order to preserve and enhance one of the most valuable natural
resources of the community and to protect the safety and welfare of its
citizens, the Town of Cary may adopt ordinances to regulate the planting,
removal, and preservation of trees and shrubs on public and private property
within the Town. Any ordinance adopted pursuant to this section shall exclude
property to be developed for single-family or duplex residential uses and shall
exclude normal forestry activities conducted pursuant to a forestry management
plan prepared or approved by a forester registered pursuant to Chapter 89B of
the General Statutes.
   (b)   Prior to adopting an ordinance authorized by subsection (a) of this
section, a public hearing shall be held before the Town Council for the Town of
Cary. Notice of the hearing shall be given in accordance with G.S. 160A-364.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2000-108; Ord. No. 06-001, § 8, 2-9-2006)
App. 2.6. Ordinances regulating clear-cutting of trees in buffer zones and
protection of specimen tree.
   (a)   The Town of Cary may adopt ordinances to regulate the removal and
preservation of existing trees and shrubs prior to development within a
perimeter buffer zone of up to sixty-five (65) feet along roadways and property
boundaries adjacent to developed properties and up to thirty-two (32) feet
along property boundaries adjacent to undeveloped properties. All such buffer
zones shall be measured from the outside boundary of any property, including
property zoned for residential and nonresidential use. The purpose of such
ordinances shall be to protect existing trees and shrubs for use as future
buffers.
   (b)   Ordinances adopted pursuant to this section shall be limited to
situations where undeveloped property is planned or zoned for residential or
nonresidential use in accordance with adopted Town plans and zoning
regulations. Such ordinances shall include reasonable provisions for access
onto and within the subject property.
   (c)   Notwithstanding any limitations contained in subsection (a) of this
section, the Town may adopt ordinances to regulate the preservation and removal
of significant specimen or "champion" trees on sites being planned for new
development. Specific standards for identifying and designating such trees,
including species and size, shall be incorporated as part of any such
ordinance.
   (d)   Any ordinance adopted pursuant to this section shall exclude normal
forestry activities on property taxed under the present-use value standard or
conducted pursuant to a forestry management plan prepared or approved by a
forester registered pursuant to Chapter 89B of the General Statutes. However,
for such properties, a municipality may deny a building permit or refuse to
approve a site or subdivision plan for a period of five years following harvest
if all or substantially all of the perimeter buffer trees which should have
been protected were removed from the tract of land for which the permit or plan
approval is sought.
   (e)   Before adopting an ordinance authorized by this section, the Council
shall hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance. Notice of the public
hearing shall be given in accordance with G.S. 160A-364.
   (f)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit or be limited by
any provisions of App. 2.12. or any other existing laws or ordinances.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2001-191; Ord. No. 06-001, § 9, 2-9-2006)
App. 2.7. Construction of roadways outside corporate limits.
   (a)   The Town of Cary may appropriate funds not otherwise limited as to use
by law to construct roadways in areas outside its corporate boundaries and
outside its extraterritorial planning and zoning jurisdiction only if those
roadways are owned by the State of North Carolina and maintained by the
Department of Transportation.
   (b)   The Town of Cary may, but is not required to, participate in the
right-of-way and construction cost of a State highway improvement approved by
the Board of Transportation under G.S. 143B-350(f)(4).
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2001-245)
App. 2.8. Traffic control photographic system (red light cameras).
   (a)   A traffic control photographic system is an electronic system
consisting of a photographic, video, or electronic camera and a vehicle sensor
installed to work in conjunction with an official traffic control device to
automatically produce photographs, video, or digital images of each vehicle
violating a standard traffic control statute or ordinance.
   (b)   Any traffic control photographic system or any device which is a part
of that system, as described in subsection (a) of this section, installed on a
street or highway which is a part of the state highway system shall meet
requirements established by the North Carolina Department of Transportation.
Any traffic control system installed on a street within the Town of Cary shall
meet standards established by the Town of Cary and shall be consistent with any
standards set by the Department of Transportation.
   (c)   Any traffic control photographic system installed on a street or
highway shall be identified by appropriate advance warning signs conspicuously
posted not more than three hundred (300) feet from the location of the traffic
control photographic system. All advance warning signs shall be consistent with
a statewide standard adopted by the Department of Transportation in conjunction
with the Town of Cary.
   (d)   The Town of Cary may adopt ordinances for the civil enforcement of
G.S. 20-158 by means of a traffic control photographic system, as described in
subsection (a) of this section. If the Town of Cary adopts an ordinance
pursuant to this section then, notwithstanding G.S. 20-176, a violation of G.S.
20-158 detected only by a traffic control photographic system shall not be an
infraction. If a violation of G.S. 20-158 is detected by both a law enforcement
officer and a traffic control photographic system, the officer may charge the
offender with an infraction. If the officer charges the offender with an
infraction, a civil penalty issued by the Town of Cary for the same offense is
void and unenforceable. An ordinance authorized by this subsection shall
provide that:
   (1)   The owner of a vehicle shall be responsible for a violation unless the
owner can furnish evidence that the vehicle was, at the time of the violation,
in the care, custody, or control of another person. The owner of the vehicle
shall not be responsible for the violation if the owner of the vehicle, within
thirty (30) days after receiving notification of the violation, furnishes the
office of the Mayor any of the following:
      a.   An affidavit stating the name and address of the person or company
who had the care, custody, and control of the vehicle.
      b.   An affidavit stating that the vehicle involved was, at the time,
stolen. The affidavit must be supported with evidence that supports the
affidavit, including insurance or police report information.
      c.   An affidavit stating that the person who received the citation is
not the owner or driver of the vehicle, or that the person who received the
citation was not driving a vehicle at the time and location designated in the
citation.
   (2)   Subdivision (1) of this subsection shall not apply, and the registered
owner of the vehicle shall not be responsible for the violation, if notice of
the violation is given to the registered owner of the vehicle more than 90 days
after the date of the violation.
   (3)   A violation detected by a traffic control photographic system shall be
deemed a noncriminal violation for which a civil penalty of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be assessed and for which no points authorized by G.S. 20-16(c)
shall be assigned to the owner or driver of the vehicle nor insurance points as
authorized by G.S. 58-36-65.
   (4)   The owner of the vehicle shall be issued a citation that shall be
attached to photographic evidence of the violation that identifies the vehicle
involved. The citation shall clearly state the manner in which the violation
may be challenged. The owner of the vehicle shall comply with the directions on
the citation. The citation shall be processed by officials or agents of the
Town of Cary and shall be forwarded by personal service or first-class mail to
the address given on the motor vehicle registration. If the owner fails to pay
the civil penalty or to respond to the citation within the time period
specified on the citation, the owner shall have waived the right to contest
responsibility for the violation and shall be subject to a civil penalty not to
exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). The Town of Cary may establish procedures
for the collection of these penalties and may enforce the penalties by civil
action in the nature of debt.
   (5)   The Town of Cary shall establish a nonjudicial administrative hearing
process to review objections to citations or penalties issued or assessed under
this section. The Town of Cary may establish an appeals panel composed of Town
employees to review objections. If the Town of Cary does not establish an
appeals panel composed of Town employees, the Mayor shall review and make a
final decision on all objections.
   (e)   The duration of the yellow light change interval at intersections
where traffic control photographic systems are in use shall be no less than the
yellow light change interval duration on the traffic signal plan of record
signed and sealed by a professional engineer, licensed in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 89C of the General Statutes, and shall comply with the
provisions of the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (f)   The Town of Cary upon enacting an ordinance implementing a traffic
control photographic system may enter into a contract with a contractor for the
lease, lease-purchase, or purchase of the system. The Town of Cary may enter
into only one contract for the lease, lease-purchase, or purchase of the system
and the duration of the contract may be for no more than sixty (60) months.
After the period specified in the contract has expired, the system shall either
be the property of the Town of Cary or the system shall be removed and returned
to the contractor.
   (g)   The clear proceeds from the citations issued pursuant to the ordinance
authorized by this section shall be paid to the Wake County school fund. The
clear proceeds from the citations shall mean the funds remaining after paying
for the lease, lease-purchase, or purchase of the traffic control photographic
system; paying a contractor for operating the system; and paying any
administrative costs incurred by the Town of Cary related to the use of the
system.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2001-286; N.C.S.L. Ch. 2003-380; N.C.S.L. Ch. 2004-141; Ord. No.
06-001, § 11, 2-9-2006; N.C.S.L. Ch. 2010-132)
App. 2.9. Issuing licenses for closing-out sales in accordance with N.C.
General Statutes Article 17, Chapter 66.
   The Town Council is authorized to designate an officer other than the Town
Clerk to issue closing-out sale licenses.
(N.C.S.L. 2002-33; N.C.S.L. 2007-22; Ord. No. 2007-17, § 1, 10-11-07; Ord. No.
2020-Code-03, 12-17-2020)
   Editor’s note:  G.S. 66-77 was repealed by N.C.S.L. 2015-103.
App. 2.10. Acquisition of utility rights-of-way when acquiring street rights-
of-way.
   When acquiring rights-of-way for the construction or improvement of streets,
the Town may also locate and acquire such additional rights-of-way as may be
necessary for the present or future location or relocation, above or below
ground, of telephone, telegraph, electric, and other lines, as well as gas,
water, sewerage, oil, and other pipelines to be operated by public utilities
defined and regulated under Chapter 62 of the General Statutes. In acquiring
real property by eminent domain for these purposes, the Town may use the
procedures of either Chapter 40A or Chapter 136 of the General Statutes.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2003-74, Ord. No. 06-001, § 12, 2-9-2006)
App. 2.11. Reimbursement of developers for design and construction of public
infrastructure.
   (a)   The Town of Cary may enter into reimbursement agreements with private
developers and property owners for the design and construction of public
infrastructure that is included on the Town's Capital_Improvement_Plan and
serves the developer or property owner. For the purpose of this section, public
infrastructure includes, without limitation, water mains, sanitary sewer lines,
lift stations, stormwater lines, streets, curb and gutter, sidewalks, traffic
control devices, and other associated facilities.
   (b)   The Town of Cary shall enact ordinances setting forth procedures and
terms under which such agreements may be approved.
   (c)   The Town of Cary may provide for such reimbursements to be paid from
any lawful source.
   (d)   No reimbursement pursuant to an agreement authorized by this section
shall be deemed to be construction subject to Article 8 of Chapter 143 of the
North Carolina General Statutes (G.S. 143-48 et seq.) or to be deemed to be a
violation or evasion of any provision of said Article. Notwithstanding the
foregoing provisions of this subsection, a construction contract subject to a
reimbursement agreement authorized by this section shall not be awarded by a
developer or property owner who is a party to such reimbursement agreement
without complying with the requirements of G.S. 143-129 and G.S. 143-128.2
relating to public advertising and bid opening requirements which would be
applicable if the construction contract had been awarded by the Town of Cary.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-41; Ord. No. 06-001, § 13, 2-9-2006)
App. 2.12. Standing of Town to enforce Swift Creek Management Plan.
   (a)   The Town of Cary, as a party to the Swift Creek Management Plan, shall
have standing to contest an action of another party to the Swift Creek
Management Plan that the Town Council for the Town of Cary believes is
inconsistent with the standards and provisions of the Swift Creek Management
Plan in violation of the provisions of subsections (a) through (c) of App.
2.4.
   (b)   Any person who resides in the Town of Cary and who also resides in the
Swift Creek watershed shall have standing to contest an action of any party to
the Swift Creek Management Plan that the person believes is inconsistent with
the standards and provisions of the Swift Creek Management Plan in violation of
the provisions of subsections (a) through (c) of App.
2.4., provided that the person has a specific personal or legal interest in the
action and is adversely affected thereby.
   (c)   The Town of Cary or person who has standing under subsection (a) or
(b) of this section may file a petition in the superior court of Wake County
seeking review of the action of a local government that the Town of Cary or
person believes to be inconsistent with the standards and provisions of the
Swift Creek Management Plan in violation of the provisions of subsections (a)
through (c) of App.
2.4. A petition under this section shall be filed no later than sixty (60) days
after the adoption, amendment, or repeal of the ordinance, the grant of the
permit or approval, an extension of any utility, or other action the local
government or person believes to be inconsistent with the standards and
provisions of the Swift Creek Management Plan in violation of the provisions of
subsections (a) through (c) of App.
2.4.
   (d)   A petition filed under this section shall state with specificity what
exceptions are taken to the action of the respondent local government and what
relief the petitioner seeks. Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the copy
of the petition for review, or within such additional time as the court may
allow, the respondent local government shall transmit to the court a copy of
the ordinance, permit, or approval and any other minutes or documents that
constitute the record of the challenged action.
   (e)   The court may hear oral arguments, receive written briefs, and take
evidence on the question of whether or not there has been a violation of
subsections (a) through (c) of App.
2.4.
   (f)   If the court determines that there has been a violation of subsections
(a) through (c) of App. 2.4., it shall declare the ordinance, permit, approval,
or other action void and may order any additional relief that appears
appropriate.
   (g)   This section shall not be construed to preclude a judicial
determination, based on common-law principles, statutory provisions, or other
law, that standing exists in a particular case for a person to bring an action
to challenge an alleged violation of the Swift Creek Management Plan and the
provisions of subsections (a) through (c) of App.
2.4.
(N.C.S.L. Ch. 2005-89; Ord. No. 06-001, § 14, 2-9-2006)
App. 2.13. Ordinances regulating demolition of historic structures in its
historic districts.
   (a)   In order to preserve and enhance one of the most valuable and unique
natural resources of the community, and to preserve the property values and
promote the general welfare of its citizens, a municipality may adopt
ordinances to regulate the demolition of historic structures within its
municipal corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction. For purposes of
this act, the term "historic structures" means:
   (1)   Any designated local, State, or national landmark; or,
   (2)   Any structure that is:
      a.   Individually listed in the National Register of Historic Places;
      b.   Individually identified as a contributing structure in a historic
district listed in the National Register of Historic Places;
      c.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the significance of a registered historic district
or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a
registered historic district;
      d.   Individually listed in the State inventory of historic places;
      e.   Individually listed in the county Register of Historic Places; or,
      f.   Individually listed in a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified by an
approved State program (including certified local governments) as determined by
the Secretary of the Interior or directly by the Secretary of the Interior in
states without approved programs.
   (b)   Prior to adopting an ordinance under this act, a public hearing shall
be held before the governing board of the municipality. Notice of the hearing
shall be given in accordance with G.S. 160A-364. An ordinance adopted under
this act may not prohibit the demolition of historic structures except in
accordance with the provisions of Part 3C of Article 19 of Chapter 160A of the
General Statutes.
(N.C.S.L. 2007-66; Ord. No. 2007-17, § 1, 10-11-2007)
App. 2.14. Authority to require developers of multifamily units to provide
funds for recreational land to serve multifamily developments.
   The Town may, by ordinance, provide that a developer of multifamily units
that are not subject to the subdivision ordinance shall provide funds to the
Town whereby the Town may acquire recreational land or areas to serve the
multifamily development, including the purchase of land that may be used to
serve more than one multifamily development or residential subdivision within
the immediate area. All funds received by the Town pursuant to this section may
be combined with funds received from residential subdivisions under G.S. 160A-
372, and shall be used only for the acquisition or development of recreation,
park, or open space sites. Any formula enacted to determine the amount of funds
that are to be provided under this section shall be based on a flat fee per
unit. The ordinance may allow a combination or partial payment of funds and
partial dedication of land when the Town Council determines that this
combination is in the best interests of the citizens of the area to be served.
(N.C.S.L. 2007-321; Ord. No. 2007-17, § 1, 10-11-2007)
App. 2.15. Electronic public notice for certain public hearings.
   The governing body of a city or town may adopt ordinances providing that
notice of public hearings may be given through electronic means, including, but
not limited to, the Town's internet site. Electronic notice may be in lieu of
traditional publication methods. Ordinances adopted pursuant to this section
shall not supersede any State law that requires notice by mail to certain
classes of people or the posting of signs on certain property and shall not
alter the publication schedule for any public notice.
(N.C.S.L. 2008-5; Ord. No. 2014-Code-01, 1-9-2014)
App. 2.16 Development incentives in exchange for reductions in energy
consumption.
   Counties or municipalities may, for the purpose of reducing the amount of
energy consumption by new development, and thereby promoting the public health,
safety, and welfare, may adopt ordinances to grant a density bonus, make
adjustments to otherwise applicable development requirements, or provide other
incentives to a developer or builder within the county or municipality and its
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction if the developer or builder agrees to
construct new development or reconstruct existing development in a manner that
the county or municipality determines, based on generally recognized standards
established for such purposes, makes a significant contribution to the
reduction of energy consumption.
(N.C.S.L. 2008-22; Ord. No. 2020-Code-03, 12-17-2020)
   Editor’s note: Codified at G.S. 160A-383.4.
App. 2.17. Town e-mail subscription lists; review and use of.
   (a)   Notwithstanding Chapter 132 of the General Statutes, when a unit of
local government maintains an electronic mail list of individual subscribers,
Chapter 132 of the General Statutes does not require that unit of local
government to provide a copy of the list. The list shall be available for
public inspection in either printed or electronic format or both as the unit of
local government elects.
   (b)   If a unit of local government maintains an electronic mail list of
individual subscribers, the unit of local government and its employees and
officers may use that list only:
   (1)   For the purpose for which it was subscribed to;
   (2)   To notify subscribers of an emergency to the public health or public
safety; or
   (3)   In case of deletion of that list, to notify subscribers of the
existence of any similar lists to subscribe to.
(N.C.S.L. 2010-83; Ord. No. 2020-Code-03, 12-17-2020)
   Editor’s note: Codified at G.S. 132-1.13.
App. 2.18. Exempting bona fide farms from obtaining building permits for
accessory buildings in the Extraterritorial Jurisdiction.
   A municipality may provide in its zoning ordinance that an accessory
building of a 'bona fide farm' as defined by G.S. 153A-340(b) has the same
exemption from the building code as it would have under county zoning as
provided by Part 3 of Article 18 of Chapter 153A of the General Statutes.
(N.C.S.L. 2011-34; Ord. No. 2011-Code-08, 11-17-2011)
App. 2.19. Exempting Town from competitive bidding requirements for apparatus,
supplies, materials, or equipment that will be used as part of certain pilot
programs aimed at increasing energy efficiency.
   A municipality or county may contract for apparatus, supplies, materials or
equipment that will be used as part of any pilot program authorized by its
governing board aimed at increasing energy efficiency without being subject to
the requirements of G.S. 143-129, 143-131 and 143-132. Notwithstanding any
provision of law, a municipality or county may award a contract under this
section in its sole discretion.
   This Act expires on June 30, 2015.
(N.C.S.L. 2011-150; Ord. No. 2011-Code-08, 11-17-2011)
App. 2.20. Entering into leases for the siting and operation of a renewable
energy facility.
   G.S. 160A-272, Lease of rental of property, was amended as to the Town to
include the following authority:
The council may approve a lease for the siting and operation of a renewable
energy facility, as that term is defined in G.S. 62-133.8(a)(7), for a term up
to 20 years without treating the lease as a sale of property and without giving
notice by publication of the intended lease.
(N.C.S.L. 2011-150; Ord. No. 2011-Code-08, 11-17-2011; Ord. No. 2020-Code-03,
12-17-2020)
   Editor’s note: This provision of G.S. 160A-272 was amended by N.C.S.L. 2014-
120 and 2015-246.
App. 2.21. Broaden the exception to the public records act for identifying
information of minors participating in local government parks and recreation
programs to include all local government programs and also to protect email
addresses of minors in such programs in the Towns of Apex, Cary, Fuquay-Varina,
Garner, Holly Springs, Knightdale, Morrisville, Rolesville, Wake Forest,
Wendell, and Zebulon, and the City of Raleigh.
   (a)   G.S. 132-1.12 reads as rewritten:
      “§ 132-1.12. Limited access to identifying information of minors
participating in local government programs.
         (a)   A public record, as defined by G.S. 132-1, does not include, as
to any minor participating in a program sponsored by a local government or
combination of local governments, any of the following information as to that
minor participant: (i) name, (ii) address, (iii) age, (iv) date of birth, (v)
telephone number, (vi) the name or address of that minor participant's parent
or legal guardian, (vii) e-mail address, or (viii) any other identifying
information on an application to participate in such program or other records
related to that program. Notwithstanding this subsection, the name of a minor
who has received a scholarship or other local government-funded award of a
financial nature from a local government is a public record.
         (b)   The county, municipality, and zip code of residence of each
participating minor covered by subsection (a) of this section is a public
record, with the information listed in subsection (a) of this section redacted.
         (c)   Nothing in this section makes the information listed in
subsection (a) of this section confidential information."
   (b)   This section applies to the Towns of Apex, Cary, Fuquay-Varina,
Garner, Holly Springs, Knightdale, Morrisville, Rolesville, Wake Forest,
Wendell, and Zebulon, and the City of Raleigh only.
(N.C.S.L. 2012-139; Ord. No. 2013-Code-02, 6-13-2013; Ord. No. 2020-Code-03,
12-17-2020)
App. 2.22 Exempting the Wake County Public School System and qualified
nonpublic schools of Wake County from development charges related to the
construction, renovation, and repair of school infrastructure facilities in
Wake County and the municipalities therein.
   N.C. Session Law 1997-450 provides:
   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Wake County Public School
System and qualified nonpublic schools of Wake County shall be exempt from
development charges assessed by Wake County or any municipality having
territory within Wake County where the development charge is assessed against
the construction, renovation, or repair of school infrastructure facilities.
   For the purposes of this act:
   (a)   “Development charge” means any:
      (1)   Impact fee, facility fee, development fee, project fee, regulatory
fee, or other similar fee assessed in connection with the construction,
renovation, or repair of a school infrastructure facility where the fee is
based on the student seating capacity of the facility.
      (2)   Water and sewer acreage fee when the Wake County Public School
System or a qualified nonpublic school has installed water and sewer
improvements.
      (3)   Transportation development fee when the Wake County Public School
System or a qualified nonpublic school has installed transportation
improvements.
      (4)   Utility tap fee.
      (5)   Plan review fee.
      (6)   Building permit fee.
      (7)   Fee to place a mobile classroom unit on property owned by the Wake
County Public School System or qualified nonpublic school.
   (b)   “School infrastructure facility” means any building, structure, or
other facility used or to be used by the Wake County Public School System or
qualified nonpublic school for instructional, administrative, or maintenance
purposes. The term includes mobile classroom units.
   (c)   “Qualified nonpublic school” means a school having an enrollment of 20
or more students, and that has one or more of the characteristics set out in
G.S. 115C-555.
(N.C.S.L. 1997-450; Ord. No. 2020-Code-03, 12-17-2020)
App. 2.23 Requiring approval of the Board of Commissioners of Chatham County
before the Towns of Apex or Cary may make an involuntary annexation into
Chatham County.
   Neither the Towns of Apex nor Cary may adopt an annexation ordinance under
Part 3 of Article 4A of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes that applies to
any territory located within Chatham County unless the Board of Commissioners
of Chatham County has, prior to the adoption of the annexation ordinance,
approved a resolution or ordinance consenting to that annexation.
(N.C.S.L. 2011-151; Ord. No. 2020-Code-03, 12-17-2020)
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE ORDINANCES
   This table shows the location of the sections of the basic Charter and any
amendments thereto.
Ordinance Number Date Section Section this Charter
Ordinance Number Date       Section Section this Charter
                                  
06-001           2- 9-2006  5       App. 2.2
                          6       App. 2.3
                          7       App. 2.4
                          8       App. 2.5
                          9       App. 2.6
                          11      App. 2.8
                          12      App. 2.10
                          13      App. 2.11
                          14      App. 2.12
                                    App. 2.9,
2007-17          10-11-2007 1       2.13,
                                    2.14
                                    App. 2.18,
2011-Code-08     11-17-2011        2.19,
                                    2.20
2013-Code-02     6-13-2013         App. 2.21
2014-Code-01     1-9-2014          App. 2.15
2020-Code-03     12-17-2020 1       App. 2.22
                          2       App. 2.23
                                    App.
                                    2.9,
                          3       2.16,
                                    2.17,
                                    2.20,
                                    2.21
2024-Charter-01  8-22-2024  1       3.2
                                  
 
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Chapter 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sec. 1-1.   How Code designated and cited.
Sec. 1-2.   Definitions.
Sec. 1-3.   Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.
Sec. 1-4.   Effect of repeal of ordinances.
Sec. 1-5.   Territorial applicability of Code.
Sec. 1-6.   Altering Code.
Sec. 1-7.   Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
Sec. 1-8.   Supplementation of Code.
Sec. 1-9.   General penalty; continuing violations; enforcement of ordinances.
Sec. 1-10.   Severability of parts of Code.
Sec. 1-11.   Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
Sec. 1-12.   Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
Sec. 1-13.   Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
Sec. 1-14.   Standard specifications and details.
Sec. 1-1. How Code designated and cited.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances, Town of Cary, North Carolina," and
may be so cited.
(Code 1976, § 1-1; Code 1982, § 1-1)
   State law reference(s)--Code of ordinances, G.S. 160A-77.
Sec. 1-2. Definitions.
   The following definitions and rules of construction shall apply to this Code
and to all ordinances unless the context requires otherwise.
   Generally.
   (1)   When provisions conflict, the specific shall prevail over the general
and the more stringent provision shall always prevail.
   (2)   All provisions shall be liberally construed so that the intent of the
town council can be effectuated.
   (3)   Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and
approved usage of the language, but technical words, technical phrases and
words and phrases that have acquired peculiar and appropriate meanings in law
shall be construed according to such meanings.
   (4)   Grammatical errors shall not vitiate, and a transposition of words and
clauses may be resorted to when the sentence or clause is without meaning as it
stands.
   (5)   Scrivener's errors shall be ignored.
   Charter. The term "Charter" means the Charter of the Town of Cary, North
Carolina, as amended.
   Code. The term "Code" means the Code of Ordinances, Town of Cary, North
Carolina, as designated in section
1-1.
   Computation of time. In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed
by this Code, the day of the act, event or default from which the designated
period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of the period
computed shall be included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in
which event the period shall run until the end of the next day which is neither
a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. When the period of time prescribed or
allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays shall be excluded in the computation. A half holiday shall be
considered as other days and not as a holiday.
   State law reference(s)--Similar provisions, G.S. 1A-1(rule 6).
   Conjunctions. In a provision involving two or more items, conditions,
provisions or events, which items, conditions, provisions or events are
connected by the conjunction "and," "or" or "either or," the conjunction shall
be interpreted as follows, except that the term "or" may be read "and," and the
term "and" may be read "or" if the sense requires it:
   (1)   "And" indicates that all the connected terms, conditions, provisions
or events apply.
   (2)   "Or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions or
events apply singly or in any combination.
   (3)   "Either or" indicates that the connected terms, conditions, provisions
or events apply singly but not in combination.
   Council or town council. The terms "town council" and "council" mean the
town council of the Town of Cary, North Carolina.
   County. The term "county" means Wake County, North Carolina or Chatham
County, North Carolina, as the case may be.
   Delegation of authority. Whenever a power is granted to or a duty is imposed
upon a public officer or public employee, the power may be exercised or the
duty may be performed by a designated deputy of such officer or employee or by
a person otherwise duly authorized pursuant to law or ordinance.
   Following. The term "following" means next after.
   Gender. Words of one gender include words of all other genders.
   G.S., titled acts. The abbreviation G.S. refers to the North Carolina
General Statutes. Any reference to a state law or state act, whether by act
number, location in the North Carolina General Statutes or by short title, is
to such law or act, as amended.
   Health officer. The term "health officer" means the county health director.
   Keeper and proprietor. The terms "keeper" and "proprietor" include persons,
acting by themselves or through a servant, agent or employee.
   May. The term "may" is to be construed as being permissive.
   May not. The term "may not" has a prohibitory effect and states a
prohibition.
   Month. The word "month" means a calendar month.
   Must. The term "must" is to be construed as being mandatory.
   Number. The singular includes the plural. The plural includes the singular.
   Oath. The term "oath" includes an affirmation in all cases in which by law
an affirmation may be substituted for an oath. In such cases the terms "swear"
and "sworn" are equivalent to the terms "affirm" and "affirmed."
   Owner. The term "owner," applied to a building or land, shall include any
part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant,
or tenant by the entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
   Person. The term "person" means any human being, any governmental or
political subdivision or public agency, any public or private corporation or
limited liability company, any partnership, any firm, association or other
organization, any receiver, trustee, assignee, agent, or other legal
representative of any of the foregoing or any other legal entity.
   Personal property. The term "personal property" includes every species of
property except real property, as herein defined.
   Preceding. The term "preceding" means next before.
   Premises. The term "premises," as applied to real property, includes land
and structures.
   Property. The term "property" includes real property, personal property and
mixed property.
   Real property. The term "real property" includes lands, tenements and
hereditaments.
   Reasonable time, reasonable notice. In all cases where any provision
requires any act to be done in a "reasonable time" or "reasonable notice" to be
given to any person, such reasonable time or notice shall mean such time only
as may be necessary in the prompt execution of such duty or compliance with
such notice.
   Shall. The term "shall" is to be construed as being mandatory and not
permissive.
   Sidewalk. The term "sidewalk" means any portion of a street between the
curbline and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of pedestrians,
excluding parkways.
   Signature or subscription. The word "signature" or "subscription" includes a
mark when the signer or subscriber cannot write.
   State. The term "state" means the State of North Carolina.
   Street. The word "street" includes any street, avenue, boulevard, road,
alley, lane, viaduct and any other public highway in the town.
   Tenant, occupant. The terms "tenant" and "occupant," applied to a building
or land, include any person holding a written or oral lease of or who occupies,
the whole or part of such buildings or land, either alone or with others.
   Tense. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   Town. The term "town" means the Town of Cary, North Carolina.
   Town officers, employees, boards, committees, commissions, etc. References
to officers, employees, boards, committees, and commissions, are to town
officers, town employees, town boards, town committees, and town commissions.
   Week. The term "week" shall be construed to mean seven days.
   Written or in writing. The term "written" or "in writing" include any
representation of words, letters or figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
   Year. The term "year" means a calendar year.
(Code 1976, §§ 1-2(a)(1--32), 1-3, 1-14; Code 1982, §§ 1-2, 1-3, 1-14)
   State law reference(s)--Statutory construction, G.S. ch. 12.
Sec. 1-3. Catchlines of sections; history notes; references.
   (a)   The catchlines of the several sections of this Code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
section and shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as
any part of the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
   (b)   The history notes appearing in parentheses after sections of this Code
are not intended to have any legal effect, but are merely intended to indicate
the source of matter contained in the section.
   (c)   References and editor's notes following certain sections are inserted
as an aid and guide to the reader and are not controlling nor meant to have any
legal effect.
   (d)   Unless stated otherwise, all references to sections or chapters are to
sections or chapters of this Code.
(Code 1976, §§ 1-3, 1-5; Code 1982, §§ 1-4(1), 1-5)
Sec. 1-4. Effect of repeal of ordinances.
   (a)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any repealed ordinance.
   (b)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding
pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
(Code 1976, § 1-6; Code 1982, § 1-13)
   State law reference(s)--Repeal of statute not to affect actions, G.S. 12-2.
Sec. 1-5. Territorial applicability of Code.
   All ordinances of the town are hereby extended to all real property and
rights-of-way belonging to or under the control of the town outside the
corporate limits of the town, and shall be in full force and effect therein
insofar as they are applicable. Any words in any ordinance indicating that the
effect of an ordinance provision is limited to the corporate limits of the town
shall be deemed to mean and include also the said outlying real property
belonging to or under the control of the town unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
(Code 1976, § 1-11; Code 1982, § 1-6)
   State law reference(s)--Ordinances effective on town property outside
limits, G.S. 160A-176.
Sec. 1-6. Altering Code.
   No person shall change or amend, by additions or deletions, any part or
portion of this Code, or insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or alter
or tamper with such Code in any manner whatsoever except pursuant to ordinance
or resolution or other official act of the town council, which will cause the
law of the town to be misrepresented.
(Code 1976, § 1-9; Code 1982, § 1-10)
Sec. 1-7. Amendments to Code; effect of new ordinances; amendatory language.
   (a)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend, repeal or in
any way affect this Code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system of this Code and printed for inclusion therein.
   (b)   Amendments to provisions of this Code may be made with the following
language: "Section (chapter, article, division or subdivision, as appropriate)
of the Code of Ordinances, Town of Cary, North Carolina, is hereby amended to
read as follows:."
   (c)   If a new section, subdivision, division, article or chapter is to be
added to the Code, the following language may be used: "Section (chapter,
article, division or subdivision, as appropriate) of the Code of Ordinances,
Town of Cary, North Carolina, is hereby created to read as follows:."
   (d)   All provisions of this Code desired to repealed should be repealed
specially by section, subdivision, division, article or chapter number, as
appropriate, or by setting out the repealed provisions in full in the repealing
ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 1-11; Code 1982, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-8. Supplementation of Code.
   (a)   By contract or by town personnel, supplements to this Code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the town council. A
supplement to the Code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances passed by the town council or adopted by initiative and
referendum during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made
thereby in the Code, and shall also include all amendments to the charter
during the period. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they
will fit properly into the Code and will, where necessary, replace pages which
have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so
prepared that, when they have been inserted, the Code will be current through
the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (b)   In preparing a supplement to this Code, all portions of the Code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the Code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (c)   When preparing a supplement to this Code, the person authorized to
prepare the supplement, may make formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances
and parts of ordinances included in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary
to do so to embody them into a unified code. For example, the codifier may:
   (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate organizational units.
   (2)   Supply appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for chapters,
articles, divisions, subdivisions and sections to be included in the Code and
make changes in any such catchlines, headings and titles or in any such
catchlines, headings and titles already in the Code.
   (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to chapters, articles, divisions,
subdivisions and sections to be added to the Code.
   (4)   Where necessary to accommodate new material, change existing numbers
assigned to chapters, articles, divisions, subdivisions or sections.
   (5)   Change the words "this ordinance" or similar words to "this chapter,"
"this article," "this division," "this subdivision," "this section" or
"sections to " (inserting section numbers to indicate the sections of the Code
that embody the substantive sections of the ordinance incorporated in the
Code).
   (6)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the original
meaning of the ordinances inserted into the Code.
(Code 1982, § 1-12)
Sec. 1-9. General penalty; continuing violations; enforcement of ordinances.
   (a)   In this section "violation of this Code" means any of the following:
   (1)   Doing an act that is prohibited or made or declared unlawful, an
offense, a violation, an infraction, a civil infraction or a misdemeanor by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (2)   Failure to perform an act that is required to be performed by
ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (3)   Failure to perform an act if the failure is prohibited or is made or
declared unlawful, an offense, a violation, an infraction, a civil infraction
or a misdemeanor by ordinance or by rule or regulation authorized by ordinance.
   (b)   In this section "violation of this Code" does not include the failure
of a town officer or town employee to perform an official duty unless it is
specifically provided that the failure to perform the duty is to be punished as
provided in this section.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance, a person convicted
of a violation of this Code shall be punished by a fine of not more than
$500.00.
   (d)   Except as otherwise provided by law or ordinance:
   (1)   With respect to violations of this Code that are continuous with
respect to time, each day that the violation continues is a separate offense.
   (2)   With respect to other violations, each act constitutes a separate
offense.
   (e)   The procedure provided for in section
6-133 applies to all ordinances; provided that for purposes of a chapter of
this Code other than chapter
6, references to animal control officers shall be deemed to be references to
persons authorized to enforce the chapter.
   (f)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or revocation
of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
   (g)   Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a
public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The
imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
   (h)   This Code may also be enforced as authorized and in accordance with
G.S. 160A-175. Specifically, and without limitation, any section of this Code
may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction. This Code may be enforced by any one, all, or a
combination of the remedies authorized by G.S. 160A-175.
(Code 1976, § 1-10; Code 1982, § 1-7)
   State law reference(s)--Penalty for ordinance violations, G.S. 14-4, 160A-
175.
Sec. 1-10. Severability of parts of Code.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the town council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
Code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any
of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this
Code.
(Code 1976, § 1-7; Code 1982, § 1-8)
Sec. 1-11. Provisions considered as continuation of existing ordinances.
   The provisions of this Code, insofar as they are substantially the same as
legislation previously adopted by the town relating to the same subject matter,
shall be construed as restatements and continuations thereof and not as new
enactments.
Sec. 1-12. Code does not affect prior offenses, rights, etc.
   Nothing in this Code or the ordinances adopting this Code shall affect any
offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture incurred, or any
contract or right established or accruing before the effective date of this
Code.
Sec. 1-13. Certain ordinances not affected by Code.
   Nothing in this Code or the ordinance adopting this Code affects the
validity of any ordinance or portion of an ordinance listed below. All such
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set out at length herein and are on file in the town clerk's
office.
   (1)   Annexing territory into the town, excluding territory from the town,
or extending or describing the boundaries of the town.
   (2)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the town, or
authorizing the issue of any bonds or other instruments of indebtedness.
   (3)   Making any appropriation or providing for a budget or budget amendment
or budget transfer.
   (4)   Any contract, right, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument or
obligation assumed by the town.
   (5)   Establishing positions, classifying positions, setting salaries or
benefits of town officers or town employees not codified in this Code.
   (6)   Relating to elections or election districts.
   (7)   Granting any right or franchise.
   (8)   Adopting or amending the comprehensive_plan.
   (9)   Accepting or naming any public park or public recreation area.
   (10)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, repairing or vacating, any street or public way.
   (11)   Establishing and prescribing the street grades of any street.
   (12)   Levying or imposing any special assessment.
   (13)   Dedicating, accepting or vacating any plat or subdivision.
   (14)   Levying or imposing taxes not codified in this Code.
   (15)   Prescribing traffic regulations for specific locations not codified
in this Code.
   (16)   Rezoning specific property or amending the zoning map.
   (17)   Adopting, amending or constituting the Land Development Ordinance of
the Town of Cary, North Carolina.
   (18)   That is temporary, although general in effect.
   (19)   That is special, although permanent in effect.
   (20)   The purpose of which has been accomplished.
(Code 1982, § 1-9)
   State law reference(s)--Authority of town to omit designated classes of
ordinances from Code, G.S. 160A-77.
Sec. 1-14. Standard specifications and details.
   (a)   The Town of Cary Standard_Specifications_and_Details
(“Specifications”) adopted by the Town Council on January 5, 2017, and as may
be amended from time to time, is hereby incorporated by reference into the Code
of Ordinances. An official copy of the Specifications shall be kept on file in
the office of the Town Clerk.
   (b)   The purpose of the Specifications is to protect the health, safety,
and welfare of Town citizens by regulating construction of infrastructure such
that infrastructure is safe, reliable, and consistent throughout Town.
   (c)   The following types of construction and any associated landscaping are
required to comply with the Specifications:
      (1)   Town projects by contractors hired by the Town;
      (2)   infrastructure, including but not limited to streets, greenways,
and utilities, to be dedicated to or maintained by the Town or another
governmental entity;
      (3)   private streets that are open to the public; and
      (4)   private greenway connections to public greenways.
   (d)   Any request for a modification to the Specifications must be submitted
in writing to the applicable Director with supporting information that
justifies the modification.
      (1)   The applicable Director, or their assigns, may approve construction
drawings which do not conform to the technical standards, technical
specifications, or numerical values set forth in the Specifications if the
requested modification (i) will not adversely impact public safety or Town
infrastructure, and (ii) will maintain the intent and purpose of the
Specifications.
      (2)   The person requesting the modification may appeal from the decision
of the Director, or their assigns, by filing a written request for appeal with
the Town Manager within ten (10) days of the date of the decision, stating with
particularity the grounds for the appeal. An appeal hearing shall be scheduled
and conducted by the Town Manager or Deputy Town Manager, who shall render a
final written decision. Any appeal from the decision of the Manager or Deputy
Manager shall be to the Superior Court for Wake or Chatham County, as
appropriate, by petition for writ of certiorari filed within thirty (30) days
of the date of the decision.
   (e)   Approval of a modification request does not constitute Town assurance
that the requested modification is sufficient or appropriate based on best
engineering practices or standard of care.
   (f)   The applicable Director, or their assigns, with expertise and holding
any required certifications or licenses in the respective subject area, may
revise the Specifications from time to time as they deem necessary.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019; Ord. No.
2022-Code-02, 6-23-2022)
Chapter 2
ADMINISTRATION
Article I. In General
Sec. 2-1.   Notices; service and proof.
Sec. 2-2.   Electronic notice of public hearings.
Secs. 2-3--2-28. Reserved.
Article II. Mayor and Town Council
Division 1. Generally
Sec. 2-29.   Regular, adjourned and recessed meetings.
Sec. 2-30.   Adjournment for lack of quorum.
Sec. 2-31.   Mayor--Duties generally.
Sec. 2-32.   Same--General duties at meetings.
Sec. 2-33.   Same--Appointing of special committees; vacating the chair.
Sec. 2-34.   Mayor pro tempore.
Sec. 2-35.   Motions; prerequisites to consideration.
Sec. 2-36.   Election by ballot.
Sec. 2-37.   Effective date of ordinances.
Sec. 2-38.   Resignation of member.
Sec. 2-39.   Agenda.
Secs. 2-40--2-70. Reserved.
Article III. Officers and Employees
Division 1. Generally
Sec. 2-71.   Contracts; conflict of interest.
Secs. 2-72--2-86. Reserved.
Division 2. Personnel
Sec. 2-87.   General provisions.
Sec. 2-88.   Position classification plan.
Sec. 2-89.   Salary plan.
Sec. 2-90.   Recruitment, selection and appointment.
Sec. 2-91.   Conditions of employment.
Sec. 2-92.   Employee benefits, holidays and leaves of absence.
Sec. 2-93.   Travel.
Sec. 2-94.   Separation.
Sec. 2-95.   Disciplinary action.
Sec. 2-96.   Grievance procedure.
Secs. 2-97--2-107. Reserved.
Article IV. Departments
Division 1. Generally
Secs. 2-108-- Department names; organization.
Secs. 2-109—2-128. Reserved.
Division 2. Department of Inspections and Permits
Sec. 2-129.   Created.
Sec. 2-130.   Right of entry.
Sec. 2-131.   Stop work orders.
Sec. 2-132.   Records.
Secs. 2-133--2-143. Reserved.
Division 3. Police Department
Sec. 2-144.   Established.
Sec. 2-145.   Duties.
Sec. 2-146.   Chain of command.
Sec. 2-147.   Uniforms and equipment.
Sec. 2-148.   Duties of chief of police.
Sec. 2-149.   Police reserves.
Secs. 2-150--2-160. Reserved.
Article V. Boards and Commissions and Authorities
Sec. 2-161.   Boards and Commissions purpose statement.
Sec. 2-162.   General provisions.
Sec. 2-163.   Membership, general.
Sec. 2-164.   Terms of office.
Sec. 2-165.   Conflicts of interest.
Sec. 2-166.   Attendance at board meetings.
Sec. 2-167.   Reimbursement for expenses.
Sec. 2-168.   Meetings.
Sec. 2-169.   Rules and records.
Sec. 2-170.   Cooperation with others.
Sec. 2-171.   Planning and zoning board.
Sec. 2-172.   Zoning board of adjustment.
Sec. 2-173.   Parks, recreation and cultural resources advisory board.
Sec. 2-174.   Historic Preservation Commission.
Sec. 2-175.   Public art advisory board.
Sec. 2-176.   Reserved.
Sec. 2-177.   Information services advisory board.
Sec. 2-178.   Reserved.
Sec. 2-179.   Environmental advisory board.
Sec. 2-180.   Reserved.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 2-1. Notices; service and proof.
   (a)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a notice is required
to be given pursuant to any section of this Code such notice shall be given
either by personal delivery to the person to be notified or by deposit in the
United States mail in a sealed envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the
person to be notified at his last known business or residence address as the
same appears in the public records or other records pertaining to the matter
for which such notice is served or by any other method of delivery approved by
law. Service by mail shall be deemed to have been completed at the time of
deposit in the post office or any United States mailbox.
   (b)   Proof of giving any notice may be made by the certificate of any
officer or employee of this town or by affidavit of any person over the age of
18 years who actually accomplished personal service in conformity with this
Code or other provisions of law applicable to the subject matter concerned, or
by a return receipt signed by the recipient notified by United States mail.
(Code 1976, § 1-13; Code 1982, § 2-2)
Sec. 2-2. Electronic notice of public hearings.
   (a)   Authority: Session Law 2014-410 authorizes the Town to give notice of
public hearings through electronic means, including, but not limited to, the
Town's Internet site. This ordinance states the Town's intent to provide legal
notice of Town of Cary public hearings electronically by publishing such notice
on the Town's website in lieu of publishing such notice in a newspaper.
   (b)   Public Hearing Notice: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in Town Ordinances, all notices of public hearings ('Public Hearing
Notice') may be published on the Town's website instead of in a newspaper. Any
such website Public Hearing Notice shall state the subject, date, time and
location of the public hearing, and such other information as may be required
by state law or Town ordinance for the particular public hearing. The Public
Hearing Notice shall be posted to the website according to the publication
schedule required by state law or Town ordinance. The Public Hearing Notice
shall remain posted until the day after the day on which the associated public
hearing closes.
   A copy of the Public Hearing Notices published on the Town's website shall
be maintained according to the Records Retention and Disposition Schedule. This
copy shall serve as proof that the Public Hearing Notice was published by
posting to the Town's website, and shall show the date(s) the Notice was
published on the website.
   (c)   Additional Notice Requirements: This ordinance does not replace any
statute or ordinance that requires notice by mail for public hearings or
posting signs on property. Those methods of notification remain in effect.
(Ord. 2014-Code-01, 1-9-2014)
Secs. 2-3—2-28. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL*
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
----------
   *Charter reference—Mayor, town council and appointees,
art. III.
   State law references—Mayor and town council, G.S. 160A-59--160A-82; meetings
of public bodies, G.S. 143-318.9 et seq.
----------
Sec. 2-29. Regular, adjourned and recessed meetings.
   (a)   Regular meeting. The town council shall adopt a regular meeting
schedule at its December meeting. This schedule shall outline the dates, times
and locations of all regular town council meetings for the following year.
   (b)   Adjourned and recessed meeting. Any regular or duly called special
meeting may be recessed to reconvene at a time and place certain, or may be
adjourned to reconvene at a time and place certain, by the town council.
(Code 1976, § 2-1; Code 1982, § 2-17; Ord. No. 86-7, § 1, 3-13-1986; Ord. No.
86-21, § 1, 6-12-1986)
   State law reference—Notice of public meetings, G.S. 143-318.12.
Sec. 2-30. Adjournment for lack of quorum.
   If a quorum is not present, a meeting of the town council shall stand
adjourned to the next regularly scheduled town council meeting.
(Code 1976, § 2-5; Code 1982, § 2-18)
   State law reference—Quorum, G.S. 160A-74.
Sec. 2-31. Mayor--Duties generally.
   The mayor shall:
   (1)   Keep himself informed as to the town's business.
   (2)   Execute official documents for the town.
(Code 1976, § 2-22; Code 1982, § 2-19; Ord. No. 77-37, 10-13-1977)
   Charter references—Election of mayor, §
3.2; mayor's authority to vote §
3.3.
Sec. 2-32. Same--General duties at meetings.
   At the hour appointed for the meeting of the town council, the mayor shall
take the chair and direct the clerk to note the absentees. The mayor shall
preserve order and decorum. He shall decide all questions of order.
(Code 1976, § 2-6; Code 1982, § 2-20)
Sec. 2-33. Same--Appointing of special committees; vacating the chair.
   The mayor shall appoint all special committees, including those comprised of
elected officials, except where the council shall otherwise order. He may, when
present, appoint any member of the council to perform the duties of the chair,
but such substitution shall not extend beyond adjournment, except by special
consent of the town council, nor shall it affect his right to vote.
(Code 1976, § 2-15; Code 1982, § 2-21)
Sec. 2-34. Mayor pro tempore.
   The mayor pro tempore shall perform the duties of the mayor in the event of
the absence of the mayor, or in case of sickness of the mayor or other causes
which would prevent the mayor from attending to the duties of the office.
(Code 1976, § 2-7; Code 1982, § 2-22)
Sec. 2-35. Motions; prerequisites to consideration.
   No motion shall be considered or put at a council meeting until seconded and
shall be reduced to writing by the member making it upon the request of the
presiding officer or any other member. It may be withdrawn at any time before
decision, commitment or amendment.
(Code 1976, § 2-14; Code 1982, § 2-24)
Sec. 2-36. Election by ballot.
   All elections by the council shall be made by ballot if required by any two
members present, and all votes shall be by yeas and nays and shall be entered
upon the records on request of one member. Provided, that no election,
appointment or motion shall be valid or adopted unless a quorum is present and
voting.
(Code 1976, § 2-16; Code 1982, § 2-25)
Sec. 2-37. Effective date of ordinances.
   Every ordinance enacted by the town council and filed in accordance with
state law shall be in force from its passage, unless otherwise ordered or
otherwise provided by state law.
(Code 1976, § 2-21; Code 1982, § 2-26; Ord. No. 77-37, 10-13-1977)
   State law reference—Ordinances, G.S. 160A-75 et seq.
Sec. 2-38. Resignation of member.
   No member of the town council shall be allowed to tender a resignation of
his office except in writing.
(Code 1976, § 2-17; Code 1982, § 2-27)
Sec. 2-39. Agenda.
   The business to be transacted before the town council shall be governed and
regulated by an agenda prepared by the town clerk.
(Code 1976, § 2-9; Code 1982, § 2-41; Ord. No. 89-25, § 1, 2-23-1989)
Secs. 2-40--2-70. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES*
----------
   *Charter reference—Mayor, town council and appointees,
art. III.
----------
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 2-71. Contracts; conflict of interest.
   No officer or employee of the town, appointed or elected, shall undertake
any venture, or make any contract, for his own benefit, under his official
authority, or be in any manner concerned or interested in making such
contracts, or in the profits thereof, unless authorized by the town council and
not in conflict with G.S. 14-234 and any other applicable state or federal law
or regulation.
(Code 1976, § 2-31; Code 1982, § 2-58; Ord. No. 2018-Code-02, § 1, 6-28-2018)
Secs. 2-72--2-75. Reserved.
   Editor's note--Ord. No. 06-008, adopted April 27, 2006, repealed §§ 2-72--2-
75 in their entirety. Formerly, said sections pertained to the duties of the
town manager, town attorney, town clerk and town treasurer, respectively, as
enacted by Code 1976, §§ 2-23--2-25; as subsequently amended. The users
attention is directed to the Town Charter for similar provisions.
Secs. 2-76--2-86. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. PERSONNEL
Sec. 2-87. General provisions.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this article is to establish a fair and
uniform system of personnel administration for all employees of the town under
the supervision of the town manager. Nothing contained in this article should
be construed as creating any type of employment contract between or among the
town and any of its employees, either express or implied. Additionally, nothing
contained in this article shall restrict the town's right to unilaterally
change the policies, practices and procedures described herein. While, in the
normal course of events, the town intends to follow the provisions set forth in
this article, in whole or in part, and other policies, practices and procedures
affecting personnel, certain situations may occur in which the town, at its
sole discretion, will not follow this division unless otherwise required by
law.
   (b)   Personnel ordinance and plans. The town council is responsible for
approving this division, the position classification plan and the salary plan.
   (c)   Administration. The town manager is the head of the administrative
branch of town government and is directly responsible to the town council for
the administration of town affairs. The town manager is the final authority for
directing the activities of all classified employees; therefore, the town
manager shall establish personnel policies, practices and procedures as
necessary, provided these are not in conflict with the town charter, town code,
federal or state laws.
   (d)   Human resources department. There shall be a human resources
department, under the supervision of the town manager, which has continuing
responsibility and authority with respect to personnel matters. The town
manager may delegate to the human resources department the responsibility for
various functions as he/she sees fit. It has primary responsibility for
advising the town manager and employees on policies, rules, regulations,
benefits and procedures, and maintaining all employee records. All employees
shall have full access to the human resources department for the purposes
described herein.
   (e)   Employee organizations. The town recognizes the right of its employees
to belong or not to belong freely and without discrimination to any
organization whose purpose, existence or activities are not in conflict with a
local, state or federal law.
   (f)   Application. The personnel ordinances and plans and all policies,
practices and procedures adopted pursuant to them shall be binding on all town
employees who are under the direction of the town manager. Any employee failing
to carry out the full implementation of these policies may be subject to
disciplinary action.
   (g)   Departmental policies, practices and procedures. Due to operational
requirements of the various town departments, each department is authorized to
establish supplemental policies, practices and procedures applicable only to
the personnel of that department. All such policies, practices and procedures
shall be subject to the approval of the town manager, and shall not conflict
with the provisions of this division, but rather supplement it.
   (h)   Statement of affirmative_action_and_equal_employment_opportunity
policy. The policy of the town is to foster, maintain and promote equal
employment opportunity. Recruitment of applicants for town employment will
actively provide for measures to improve the diversity of the applicant pool.
The town shall select employees on the basis of the applicant's qualifications
for the job and award them, with respect to compensation and opportunity for
training and advancement, including upgrading and promotion, without regard to
age, sex, race, color, religion, national origin, nondisqualifying disability
or political affiliation. Applicants with disabilities shall be given equal
consideration with other applicants for positions in which their disabilities
do not represent an unreasonable barrier to satisfactory performance of
essential job functions.
   (i)   Implementation of affirmative_action_and_equal_employment_opportunity
policy. All personnel responsible for recruitment and employment will continue
to review regularly the implementation of this personnel policy and relevant
practices and procedures to assure that equal employment opportunity based on
reasonable, job-related job requirements is being actively observed to the end
that no employee or applicant for employment shall suffer discrimination
because of age, sex, race, color, religion, nondisqualifying disability,
national origin or political affiliation.
   (j)   Merit principle. Appointments, promotions, and other human resource
transactions shall be made solely on the basis of merit, except where
organizational needs warrant other considerations.
(Code 1982, § 2-63; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-
1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord. No. 98-003, 5-28-1998)
Sec. 2-88. Position classification plan.
   (a)   Purpose. The position classification plan provides a complete and
accurate description and specification for each class of employment within the
town service. The plan standardizes job titles, each of which is indicative of
a definite range of duties and responsibilities.
   (b)   Full-time employees. Full-time employees are those who are in
positions for which an average work week over a one-month period of at least 37
½ hours per week is required by the town.
   (c)   Part-time employees. Part-time employees are those who are in
positions for which an average work week over a one-month period is less than
37 ½ hours per week.
   (d)   Temporary employees. Temporary employees are those who are in
positions which are expected to last less than 24 consecutive months. Unless
specifically included, the provisions of this division do not apply to
temporary employees; however, the phrase "any employee" shall be deemed to
include temporary employees.
   (e)   Probationary employees and trainees. All full-time and part-time
employees hired into an authorized position and given a probationary
appointment shall be considered probationary employees. A trainee is an
employee not fully qualified to meet the requirements of a position, but who is
expected to do so within a reasonable period of time.
   (f)   Regular employees. All full-time and part-time employees who have
completed initial probation, as defined by section
2-91, shall be considered regular employees. The term "regular," as used in
this division, specifically sections
2-87 through
2-96, shall not be construed to guarantee any employee continued employment.
   (g)   Use. The position classification plan is to be used:
   (1)   As a guide in recruiting and examining applicants for employment;
   (2)   In determining lines of progression and in developing employee
training programs;
   (3)   In determining salary to be paid for various types of work;
   (4)   In determining human resource service items in departmental budgets;
and
   (5)   In providing uniform job terminology.
   (h)   Administration. The town manager shall be responsible for the
administration of the position classification plan, and shall periodically
review the entire position classification plan. The human resources department,
under the direction of the town manager, shall have continuing responsibility
to assure that this plan is implemented.
   (i)   Adoption. The position classification plan shall be adopted by the
town council.
   (j)   Amendment. Classes of positions shall be added to and deleted from the
position classification plan upon approval of the town council, or the town
manager, based on criteria established by the town council.
(Code 1982, § 2-64; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-
1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord. No. 98-003, 5-28-1998)
Sec. 2-89. Salary plan.
   (a)   Definition. The salary plan includes the basic salary schedule and
position authorization plan. The salary schedule consists of minimum and
maximum rates of base salary for all classes of positions included in the
position classification plan. The position authorization plan includes a
complete inventory of authorized positions and a designation of the hours in
the work week for each position. The salary schedule shall be adopted by the
town council. A position authorization plan shall be adopted by the town
council each fiscal year and may be amended during the fiscal year by the town
council or by the town manager based on criteria established by the town
council.
   (b)   Pay rates in promotion, demotion, and transfer. When an employee is
promoted, demoted or transferred, the rate of salary for the new position will
be established in accordance with the following rules:
   (1)   An employee who is promoted will receive a salary consistent with the
provisions of subsection
2-91(g);
   (2)   An employee who is demoted will receive a salary consistent with the
provisions of subsection
2-91(j);
   (3)   An employee who is transferred from a position in one class to a
position in another class where the new position is assigned to the same salary
grade as the old position will continue to receive the same salary.
   (c)   Pay rates in salary range revisions and reclassifications. When the
town council approves a change in salary grade for a position or class of
positions, the salaries of employees whose positions are reallocated are
affected as follows:
   (1)   When a position or a class of positions is assigned to a higher salary
grade, eligible employees in that class may receive a salary increase based on
the pay_for_performance_policy;
   (2)   When a position or a class of positions is assigned to a lower salary
grade, the salary of any employee in that position or class will remain
unchanged. If this assignment to a lower salary range results in an employee
being paid at a rate above the maximum established for the new class, the base
salary of that employee shall be maintained at that level at least until such
time as the employee's salary grade is increased above the employee's current
salary and the employee is eligible for an increase.
   (d)   Starting salaries. All persons employed in positions contained in the
position authorization plan shall be employed at the minimum salary for the
classification in which they are employed, provided they possess the minimum
qualifications required; however, on the recommendation of the department
director and with the approval of the town manager, well-qualified applicants
may be employed above the minimum rate.
   (e)   Trainee salaries. An applicant who is hired as a trainee, or an
employee who is promoted to a trainee, may be appointed at a trainee rate. A
trainee rate is normally at least five percent below the minimum rate of the
assigned salary grade.
   (f)   Performance appraisal. Each employee will receive a performance review
at times established by the town manager, but at least once a year. During this
review, the employee and his/her supervisor shall discuss the employee's tasks
and responsibilities and identify areas of good performance and areas for
additional improvement. The supervisor shall document such review to the
employee's human resource file, in a form approved by the town manager.
   (g)   Anniversary dates for merit performance reviews. Anniversary dates for
performance reviews shall be established by the town manager for all employees.
The anniversary date will remain unchanged by promotions and reclassifications,
unless either action results in a salary increase of more than 15 percent.
Interim appointments will not affect anniversary dates.
   (h)   Performance awards.  When an employee becomes eligible for a
performance award, such increase shall be the decision of the department
director, based on the quality of the employee's performance and conduct and
approved by the chief human resources officer as to the sufficiency of
documentation, adherence to policies, and other technical and legal matters.
The town manager will grant performance awards to department directors, upon
eligibility and based upon their performance and personal conduct.
   (i)   Reserved.
   (j)   Overtime.
   (1)   Any employee of the town may be required to work the hours necessary
to fulfill the needs of the town as determined by the town manager or
department director. Any overtime hours must be approved, normally in advance,
by the employee's supervisor.
   (2)   The town shall comply with minimum wage, overtime salary,
recordkeeping and other applicable provisions, if any, of the Fair Labor
Standards Act (FLSA). The town manager shall determine which positions are
covered by the FLSA ("nonexempt") and which positions are not covered
("exempt") by the FLSA provisions concerning overtime.
   (3)   Any employees in nonexempt positions will be paid the regular rate of
salary for hours worked up to the limit established by the FLSA for their
positions (usually 40 hours in a seven-day period). Hours worked above the
FLSA-established limit will be compensated at the appropriate overtime rate or
through compensatory time.
(Code 1982, § 2-65; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-
1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord. No. 97-029, 6-26-1997; Ord. No.
98-003, 5-28-1998; Ord. No. 2010-Code-09, 12-16-2010; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04,
10-10-2019)
Sec. 2-90. Recruitment, selection and appointment.
   (a)   Recruitment sources. When position vacancies occur, department
directors shall notify the human resources department concerning the number and
classification of positions which are to be filled. Certain vacancies may be
made available only to current employees. The human resources department will
publicize all other opportunities for employment, including applicable salary
information and employment qualifications. Information on job openings and
hiring practices shall be provided to recruitment sources, including
organizations and news media available to minority applicants. In addition,
notice of vacancies shall be posted at designated conspicuous sites within
departments. Individuals shall be recruited from a geographic area as wide as
is necessary to ensure that well-qualified applicants are obtained for town
service.
   (b)   Job advertisements. Employment advertisements shall contain assurances
of equal employment opportunity and affirmative action, and shall comply with
federal and state statutes.
   (c)   Applications for employment. All persons expressing interest in
positions for which the town is recruiting externally will be given the
opportunity to file an application for employment.
   (d)   Selection. Department directors shall make such investigations and
conduct such examinations as deemed appropriate to assess fairly the aptitude,
education, and experience; knowledge, skill, and ability; and other
qualifications required to perform the essential function of a job with or
without reasonable accommodation. All selection devices administered by the
town, or by persons or agencies for the town, shall be valid measures of job
performance.
   Pre-employment background checks may include criminal conviction record
checks for all positions and additional verifications depending upon the
position.
   (e)   Employment procedure. When a job opening occurs and the procedures set
forth in this division have been completed, the human resources department
shall then screen all applications for the position and identify the best
qualified applicants for the department director or other designated
supervisory personnel. The department director or supervisor, following
standard procedures, shall interview the appropriate applicants.
(Code 1982, § 2-66; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-
1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord. No. 98-003, 5-28-1998; Ord. No.
2007-11, 9-11-2007)
Sec. 2-91. Conditions of employment.
   (a)   Employment of immediate family and close relatives. "Immediate family"
and "close relatives" are defined in subsection
2-92(q). The town prohibits the hiring and employment of immediate family and
close relatives in authorized positions within the same work unit. The town
also prohibits the hiring of any person into a temporary or authorized position
who is an immediate family member or close relative of individuals holding the
following positions: Mayor, mayor pro tem, town councilmember, town manager,
deputy town manager, assistant town manager, town clerk, town attorney, finance
director or chief human resources officer. Otherwise, the town will consider
employing families or related persons in the service of the town, provided that
such employment does not result in immediate family or close relatives
supervising relatives or having any responsibility for the payroll, hours of
work, or human resource records of relatives, or for making any decision
affecting the employment of a relative. Employment of individuals who are
cohabiting or were formerly related, as defined by subsection
2-92(q), shall be subject to the same conditions as immediate family or close
relatives. For the purpose of this division, "cohabiting" shall mean to live
together in a sexual relationship when not legally married.
   (b)   Probationary and trainee periods defined.
   (1)   An employee who is newly appointed shall serve an initial probationary
period of at least 12 months. "Initial probation" or "initial probationary
period," where used in this division, shall mean within the current term of
employment.
   (2)   An employee who is transferred, as provided in subsection (k), or
promoted to an authorized position, as provided in subsection (g), shall also
serve a probationary period of at least six months, except that new
firefighters and law enforcement officers shall serve at least a 12-month
probationary period.
   (3)   An applicant who is hired, or an employee who is promoted and who is
not fully qualified to meet the established requirements of the position, may
be appointed as a trainee.
   (c)   Probationary and training periods: evaluations and recommendations.
The supervisor of a probationary employee or trainee shall accomplish and
document the following at least every three months of employment:
   (1)   That there has been discussed with the employee the employee's
accomplishments, failures, strengths and weaknesses;
   (2)   Whether the employee is performing satisfactory work;
   (3)   Whether the employee's conduct is satisfactory;
   (4)   Whether the employee should be retained in the position or whether the
employee should be terminated or, if applicable, reinstated to his/her former
position or one of comparable seniority, status and pay, if available and
appropriate. Before the end of the probationary or training period, the
supervisor shall make final evaluations and recommendations. Upon successful
completion of the training period, trainees shall become probationary
employees.
   (d)   Probationary and training periods: discipline and appeal.
   (1)   A probationary employee or a trainee who has not previously completed
initial probation is not subject to the same disciplinary procedures as a
regular employee. A probationary employee or a trainee who has not completed
initial probation may be terminated without resorting to any of the steps
outlined in section
2-95.
   (2)   Termination relating to job performance should normally be preceded by
one or more counseling sessions to assist the employee in fulfilling the
responsibilities of the position. Such counseling sessions are not a
prerequisite to termination. Particularly, termination relating to personal
conduct may occur without prior counseling or warning.
   (3)   A probationary employee or a trainee who has not previously completed
initial probation and who is dismissed shall have the right to appeal through
the grievance procedure only if alleging unlawful employment discrimination
based on age, sex, race, color, religion, national origin, political
affiliation or disability.
   (4)   A probationary employee or a trainee who had previously successfully
completed initial probation during this term of employment is subject to
disciplinary action up to and including dismissal in accordance with the
provisions for a regular employee (section
2-95) and is entitled to the same process as a regular employee under the
grievance procedure (section
2-96).
   (e)   Promotions, interim appointments and special assignments of employees.
   (1)   It is the policy of the town to encourage promotions from within the
town work force whenever possible. Employees will be considered based on merit,
job performance and personal conduct in current and previous town positions,
and relevant experience and training. Interim appointments may be made by the
town manager or department director if a vacancy or leave is reasonably
anticipated to exceed 30 calendar days. Interim appointments will only be made
if the employee will spend a significant portion of time performing higher
level duties. Interim appointments may be terminated by the town at any time.
   (2)   Special assignments are long-term temporary assignments where the
duties differ significantly from those duties typical in the employee's normal
job classification. Special assignments may be terminated by the town at any
time for any reason. Special assignments are authorized by the town council.
   (f)   Promotion, interim appointments and special assignments; salary. When
an employee who meets all established requirements is promoted to a position in
a higher salary grade, the employee's salary will normally be increased to the
minimum level for the new pay range, or at least the equivalent of a five-
percent increase. Employees receiving interim appointments to positions in a
higher salary grade, or special assignments at a higher level, may be granted a
salary increase which will not affect anniversary dates and will be rescinded
upon the expiration of the interim appointment or special assignment.
   (g)   Promotion; probationary conditions. An employee who is promoted shall
be considered on probation for the purposes of evaluation, but shall not be
denied any of the employee benefits that would be provided if the promotion had
not occurred. The probationary period shall last at least six months, except
for newly appointed firefighters and police officers, who shall be on probation
at least 12 months. If, at any time during the probationary period, the
promoted employee's work performance is found to be unsatisfactory, the
disciplinary procedure for evaluation as set forth in subsections
2-95(a), (b), (c), and (d) will be followed. To avoid termination, the employee
may be reinstated in the employee's former position or one of comparable
seniority, status and salary, if available. If no such position is available,
the employee may be terminated. Before the end of the probationary period, the
supervisor shall make the evaluations and recommendation as required by the
provisions of subsections (c) and (d).
   (h)   Outside employment. An employee's work and interests of the town will
take precedence over all other occupational interests of employees. All outside
employment for salaries, wages or commission and all self-employment must be
reported in advance to the employee's supervisor, who in turn will report it to
the department director. The department director will review such employment
for possible conflict of interest then submit a record of the employment and
review to personnel. Conflicting or unreported outside employment is grounds
for disciplinary action up to and including dismissal.
   (i)   Demotion: disciplinary, voluntary, administrative. Any employee whose
work performance is unsatisfactory or personal conduct is detrimental may be
transferred to a position in a lower salary grade if the employee possesses the
qualifications necessary for performance in the new position. Such a
disciplinary demotion should normally be preceded by the warning procedures
outlined in section
2-95. When a transfer to a lower level position is not acceptable to the
prospective department director, an employee may instead be given a within-
grade salary reduction. A voluntary demotion may be requested by an employee at
any time but must be approved by the town. An administrative demotion may be
imposed by the town when the safety or health of the employee, public, or co-
workers is at serious risk.
   (j)   Pay rate for demotional transfer. When an employee is transferred to a
position in a lower salary grade for which the employee is qualified, the
salary shall be set at the rate in the new pay range which provides the
smallest or no decrease in salary, provided the action is taken for reasons
other than discipline. If the action is for disciplinary purposes, the salary
shall be set at an appropriate point in the lower range that is less than the
existing salary.
   (k)   Transfer. Any employee of the town may be transferred to another
position in the same department, or in another department of the town, if
approved by the town manager. The employee shall not be denied any of the
employee benefits that would be provided if the transfer had not occurred;
however, if the transfer results in a change in department or classification,
or is for disciplinary purposes, then the employee shall serve a probationary
period as provided for by the provisions of subsection (b)(2).
   (l)   Rehiring.
   (1)   An employee who resigns while in good standing may be rehired with the
approval of the town manager, and will be regarded as a new employee subject to
all the provisions of this division.
   (2)   An employee in good standing who is terminated due to a reduction_in
force shall be given the first opportunity to be rehired in the same or a
similar position. An employee who is terminated due to a reduction_in_force and
is then rehired within two years shall have his/her sick leave balance and
vacation accrual rate reinstated.
   (m)   Acceptance of gifts and favors. No official or employee of the town
shall:
   (1)   Accept any gift, favor or thing of value that may tend to improperly
influence or be perceived to improperly influence such employee in the
discharge of the employee's duties; or
   (2)   Grant in the discharge of duty an improper favor, service, or thing of
value.
   (n)   Political activity restricted. Each employee has a civic
responsibility to support good government by every available means and in every
appropriate manner. Each employee may join or affiliate with civic
organizations of a partisan or political nature, may attend political meetings,
and may advocate and support the principles or policies of civic or political
organizations in accordance with the Constitution and laws of the State of
North Carolina and America; however, no employee shall:
   (1)   Engage in any political or partisan activity while on duty;
   (2)   Use official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering
with or affecting the result of a nomination or an election for office;
   (3)   Be required as a duty of employment or as condition for employment,
promotion or tenure of office to contribute funds for political or partisan
purposes;
   (4)   Coerce or compel contributions from another employee of the town for
political or partisan purposes;
   (5)   Use any supplies or equipment of the town for political or partisan
purposes;
   (6)   Be a candidate for nomination or election to office under the town
charter.
Any violation of this section shall subject such employee to dismissal or other
disciplinary action.
   State law reference— Other restrictions on political activity, G.S. 160A-
169.
   (o)   Additional conditions of employment for the deputy town manager,
assistant town manager and department directors. Any deputy town manager,
assistant town manager, or department director may be terminated without
following the process outlined in section
2-95 of this article. The town manager shall advise the town council of his
intentions prior to terminating a covered employee under this provision. Such a
termination may be recorded as a resignation and will entitle a covered
employee who has completed initial probation to severance pay based on the
following:
 
Continuous years of town service Weeks of severance pay
Less than 2                      4
2 or more, but less than 5       8
5 or more                        12
 
Employees age 40 or older on the effective date of severance will receive an
additional four weeks of severance pay. All such severance pay is in addition
to any other benefits to which the employee is otherwise entitled and is
contingent upon the employee agreeing to such terms and conditions of severance
as the town may deem appropriate. Severance pay does not include any type of
pay other than base pay.
(Code 1982, § 2-67; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 93-34, § 1, 9-23-
1993; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord.
No. 97-029, 6-26-1997; Ord. No. 98-003, 5-28-1998; Ord. No. 2010-Code-09, 12-
16-2010; Ord. No. 2018-Code-04, 8-23-2018; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 2-92. Employee benefits, holidays and leaves of absence.
   (a)   Eligibility. All regular and probationary employees, as well as
trainees employed by the town and other employees, as specifically provided
herein, are eligible for employee benefits provided for in this section which
are subject to change at the town's discretion (see also subsection 2-63(a)).
Temporary employees, whether full-time or part-time, are only eligible for
workers compensation, family and medical leave subject to the provisions of the
family_and_medical_leave_policy, and participation in the Local Government
Credit Union subject to credit union rules and regulations.
   (b)   Group health plans.
   (1)   The town will make reasonable effort to provide full-time employees
with at least one group health plan, including family coverage, and to pay the
total individual cost for the individual employees enrolling in that plan.
Employees will pay all or a portion, as determined by the town council, of the
cost of coverage for qualified dependents if the individual employee desires
such coverage.
   (2)   Part-time employees may, if they so desire, purchase available group
health through the town, either for themselves or for themselves and their
qualified dependents. A pro rata amount of the cost of coverage paid for a
full-time employee shall be paid for by the town, with the remainder of the
cost being paid by the employee. This pro rata amount shall be based on
regularly scheduled hours.
   (3)   Employees who retire may remain on a town group health plan to
Medicare eligibility or age 65, whichever comes first. Retirees are eligible
for a payment towards the retiree’s individual health insurance premium based
on criteria established by Town Council.
   (4)   Information concerning cost and benefits shall be available to all
employees through the human resources department.
   (c)   Local Government Employees’ Retirement System. Each employee who is
required to work for the town more than 1,000 hours annually shall, as a
condition of employment, join the Local Government Employees’ Retirement System
(LGERS) beginning with the date of hire. Employees who are already members of
LGERS, the Teachers and State Employees Retirement System or other North
Carolina retirement systems at the time they are hired, continue participation
in LGERS.
   (d)   Compensation for off-duty employees on standby status. The town must
provide certain critical services 24 hours a day, seven days a week. To ensure
that employees with necessary skills are readily available, the town places
some off-duty employees on standby status and provides town council-approved
compensation for the inconvenience created.
   (e)   Tuition reimbursement. Full-time employees who have completed initial
probation may apply for tuition reimbursement for courses taken on their own
time, whenever possible, which will improve their skills for their current job
or prepare them for promotional opportunities within the town service. Tuition,
registration fees, laboratory fees and student fees are eligible expenses and
are subject to reimbursement according to current standard procedure.
Satisfactory completion of the course will be required for reimbursement. (Also
see subsection (dd), education leave, of this section.)
   (f)   Paid leave policy. The policy of the town is to provide vacation, sick
leave, holiday leave, and certain other paid leaves to all full-time and part-
time employees. Paid leave does not include leave while receiving short-term
disability insurance or while receiving benefits under worker's compensation.
An employee must work or be on paid leave for more than half the regularly
scheduled hours in a biweekly pay period to accrue leave for that period.
   (g)   Holidays. The Town designates New Year's Day, Martin Luther King Jr.
Day, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, Independence Day, Labor Day,
Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day (including the day after Thanksgiving Day), and
Christmas Day (including the day before and after Christmas day) as paid
holidays. If any of the Town holidays fall on a Saturday or Sunday, the Town
will adopt the same holiday schedule as the State of North Carolina for that
specific holiday. If a Town holiday not observed by the State falls on a
Saturday or Sunday, it will be observed on the preceding Friday or following
Monday, respectively. Town staff will be notified of the schedule each calendar
year. Holiday leave earned by employees having a work week with fewer hours
than the basic workweek shall be determined in accordance with the formula set
forth in subsection (v) of this section.
   (h)   Effect of holidays on other types of leave. Regular holidays which
occur during a vacation, sick leave, or other paid leave period of any officer
or employee of the town shall not be considered as vacation, sick leave, or
other leave.
   (i)   Holiday compensation. An employee who works or is on paid leave the
entire workday prior to and following a designated holiday will receive paid
holiday leave. An employee of the town who is required to work on any
designated holiday due to work schedule or at the direction of a supervisor is
entitled to additional holiday compensation. The employee shall receive
compensation at the regular rate for hours worked. In addition, such employee
is also entitled to a choice of either compensation in the form of time off or
pay, selected with the approval of the supervisor. Such compensation, whether
in compensatory time or pay, shall be computed at a rate of time-and-one-half
for the actual hours worked. Temporary employees, the deputy town manager, the
assistant town manager, and all department and division directors shall be
exempt from this provision. Departments with employees working 24 hours a day
may elect to compensate those employees for working on the "true" holiday
rather than the designated holiday.
   (j)   Religious holidays. Any employee of the town desiring to observe a
religious holiday other than those designated shall be permitted to do so as
determined by federal regulations. Such absences are accounted for through use
of vacation or compensatory time, if available. Any such employee shall advise
his or her immediate supervisor of the proposed leave at least one week in
advance of that date, and the employee's work schedule should be adjusted
accordingly to permit such observance.
   (k)   Schedule for taking vacation. Employees shall be granted use of earned
vacation upon request, in advance in writing, at those times designated by the
town manager or department director, which will least inconvenience normal
operations of the town.
   (l)   Unscheduled vacation. Unscheduled vacation is vacation which is taken,
but has not been approved in advance by the appropriate town official.
Unscheduled vacation will be considered as an improper use of leave privileges
and may subject an employee to disciplinary action as outlined in section
2-95.
   (m)   Vacation leave: initial appointment, probationary employees and
trainees. Employees who have not completed initial probation may accumulate
vacation leave; however, the employee shall not be permitted to take vacation
leave unless the denial of such leave would create an unusual hardship or
unless it is to be used as supplemental pay while on workers compensation.
Vacation leave, except as a supplement to workers compensation, may be taken
during this period only with the prior approval of the town manager.
Firefighters and law enforcement officers shall be allowed to take accumulated
vacation leave after six months' satisfactory service.
   (n)   Vacation leave: rate.
   (1)   Full-time employees working the basic workweek shall earn vacation
leave at the following rates:
 
Years of aggregate service in Hours earned in one year Days earned in one year
an authorized position
Less than 2                   80                       10
2 but less than 5             96                       12
5 but less than 10            120                      15
10 but less than 15           144                      18
15 but less than 20           168                      21
20 or more                    192                      24
 
   (2)   Vacation earned by employees having a workweek with greater or fewer
hours than the basic workweek shall be determined in accordance with the
formula set forth in subsection (v) of this section.
   (3)   With approval of the town council, the town manager can authorize a
higher-than-vacation accrual when necessary to attract an applicant to a
critical position during a tight labor market. Such accrual shall not exceed 24
days per year.
   (o)   Vacation; maximum accumulation.
   (1)   Vacation may be accumulated without any applicable maximum until the
last day of the first full payroll period in June; however, if the employee
separates from service, payment for accumulated vacation shall not exceed 240
hours. On the last day of the first full payroll period in June, any employee
with more than 240 hours of accumulated vacation leave will have the excess
amount converted to sick leave.
   (2)   Employees are cautioned not to retain excess accumulation of vacation
until late in the fiscal year; due to the necessity of keeping all town
functions in operation, large numbers of employees cannot be granted vacation
at any one time. If any employee has excess leave accumulation during the
latter part of the fiscal year and is unable to take such leave because of
staffing demands, the employee will not receive special consideration, either
in having vacation scheduled or in receiving any exception to the maximum
accumulation.
   (p)   Payment for accumulated vacation upon death. The estate of an employee
who dies while employed by the town will normally be entitled to payment for
all the accumulated vacation credit to the employee's account, not to exceed a
maximum of 240 hours; however, an employee may stipulate in writing to the
human resources department to whom payment should be made in the event of
death.
   (q)   Sick leave.
   (1)   Sick leave with salary is not a right that an employee may demand, but
a privilege granted for the benefit of an employee when sick.
   (2)   Sick leave may be granted to an employee temporarily absent from work
for any of the following reasons: Sickness, bodily injury, required physical or
dental examinations or treatment, or exposure to a contagious disease when
continuing work might jeopardize the health of others.
   (3)   Sick leave may be used when an employee must temporarily care for a
member of his or her immediate family who is ill. Such leave is normally
limited to 12 weeks total in any 12-month period. Sick leave may also be used
for death in the employee's immediate family or the death of a close relative.
For the death of an immediate family member, an employee may take up to five
days of sick leave for any one occurrence. For a close relative, sick leave may
not exceed three days for any one occurrence. Additional leave time required
for any such occurrence may be charged to vacation. For the purpose of this
section, "immediate family" is defined as wife, husband, mother, father,
guardian, brother, sister, daughter and son. For the purpose of this section,
"close relative" is defined as mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law,
daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, grandmother, grandfather,
grandson, and granddaughter. Also included in both definitions are the various
combinations of "step," "half" and adopted relationships.
   (4)   Sick leave may also be used to supplement pay received under worker's
compensation.
   (5)   Up to 80 hours of sick leave may be used singly or jointly by parents
adopting a child.
   (6)   An employee on sick leave who, upon advice of a competent physician,
is determined by the town to be unable to return to work and who is vested in
the retirement system may continue to use accrued sick leave, provided that he/
she is actively applying for service or disability retirement. Where the
employee is not vested, the employee may exhaust sick leave accrued while
employed with the town.
   (r)   Sick leave rate and accumulation. Sick leave shall accrue at a rate of
one day per month of service or 12 days per each calendar year of service. Sick
leave for employees whose workweek is less than full-time shall be calculated
proportionately, as described in subsection (v) of this section. Sick leave
shall accumulate without remittal for as long as that person remains an
employee of the town.
   (s)   Policy for taking sick leave. Notification of the desire to take leave
should be submitted to the employee's supervisor prior to the leave, but, in
any event, not later than one hour after the beginning of the scheduled
workday.
   (t)   Physician's certificate.
   (1)   The department director may require a physician's certificate stating
the nature of the employee's or immediate family member's illness and the
employee's capacity to resume duties for each occasion on which an employee
uses sick leave. The employee may be required to submit to such medical
examination or inquiry as the department director deems desirable. The
department director shall be responsible for the application of this provision
to the end that:
      a.   Employees shall not be on duty when they might endanger their health
or the health of other employees; and
      b.   There will be no abuse of leave privileges.
   (2)   Claiming sick leave under false pretense to obtain a day off with
salary shall subject the employee to disciplinary action.
   (u)   Sick leave; retirement credit for accumulated sick leave. Sick leave
may be granted as retirement credit consistent with the provisions of the state
local governmental employees retirement system.
   (v)   Calculation of holiday leave, vacation and sick leave. Holiday leave,
vacation and sick leave earned by employees having a regularly scheduled
workweek with fewer hours than the basic workweek shall be determined in
accordance with the following formula. Vacation leave for employees having a
regularly scheduled workweek with greater hours than the basic workweek shall
also be determined by the following formula:
   (1)   The number of hours worked by such employees shall be divided by the
number of hours in the basic workweek;
   (2)   The proportion obtained in step (1) shall be multiplied by the number
of hours of leave earned annually by employees working the basic workweek;
   (3)   The number of hours in step (2) divided by 26 shall be the number of
hours of leave earned biweekly by the employees concerned.
   (w)   Workers compensation.
   (1)   All employees of the town, whether full-time, part-time, regular,
probationary or temporary, are covered by state workers compensation and are
required to report all injuries arising out of and in the course of employment
to their immediate supervisor, at the time of the injury, in order that
appropriate action may be taken at once.
   (2)   Responsibility for claiming compensation under the workers
compensation act is on the injured employee. The human resources department
will assist the employee in filing the claim. An employee absent from duty
because of sickness or disability due to an on-the-job injury and covered by
the North Carolina workers compensation act (G.S. ch. 97) may receive workers
compensation benefits. Regular employees, probationary employees and trainees
may elect to use accumulated vacation and sick leave as a supplemental payment
for the difference between regular salary and the payments received under the
workers compensation act. The combination of workers compensation payments and
pay from any supplemental leave shall not exceed the employee's normal base
salary. Computation of salary rate for any leave taken shall be based on the
employee's base salary rate.
   (3)   The town directs all medical treatment through its third party
administrator. Unauthorized medical treatment is not covered.
   (x)   Family, parental, maternity and medical leaves. All employees who have
met certain criteria are eligible for family and medical leave as prescribed by
the family_and_medical_leave_act of 1993. Specific guidelines and employee
notification requirements are outlined in separate town policies and
procedures.
   (y)   Leave without salary generally.
   (1)   To ensure public accountability, the town normally does not pay
employees for scheduled hours not worked when there is no leave time accrued or
available which is appropriate to cover the absence. Leave without pay for
employees who are exempt from the overtime provisions of the fair labor
standards act will only be used in a manner which preserves the employee's
exempt status. A regular employee may be granted a leave of absence without
salary for up to one year by the town manager. The leave may be used for
reasons of:
      a.   Personal disability after both sick leave and the desired amount of
vacation has been exhausted;
      b.   Continuation of education or special work that will permit the town
to benefit by the experience gained or the work performed; or
      c.   For other reasons deemed justified by the town manager.
   (2)   The employee shall apply in writing to the town manager for leave. The
employee is obligated to return to duty with the town at the end of the time
determined appropriate by the town manager. Upon returning to duty after being
on leave without salary, the employee will normally return to the same position
held at the time leave was granted or to one of like classification, seniority
and salary. If the employee decides not to return to work, the employee should
notify the supervisor immediately. Failure to report at the expiration of a
leave of absence, unless an extension has been approved, shall be considered a
resignation.
   (z)   Leave without salary: retention and continuation of benefits. An
employee shall retain all unused vacation and sick leave while on leave without
salary. An employee ceases to earn leave when he/she works or is on paid leave
one-half or less of the regularly scheduled hours in a pay period. The employee
may continue to be eligible for benefits under the town's group health plans,
subject to any regulations established by the respective insurance carriers and
the provisions of the town's family_and_medical_leave_policy.
   (aa)   Effect of absences on performance review dates. An employee's merit
review eligibility may be delayed one month for each calendar month the
employee is on leave without salary, sick leave, workers compensation, absent
while receiving short-term disability insurance, or any other combination of
such absences more than one-half the scheduled hours in that month.
   (bb)   Military_leave. An employee who is a member of an armed forces
reserve organization or the national guard shall be granted two calendar weeks
per year of leave with pay for military training. While on military_leave,
benefits will accrue as though present for duty. This leave is not charged as
vacation; however, any salary payment which the employee receives from the
military shall be deducted from the amount paid by the town.
   (cc)   Civil leave. An employee called for jury duty or as a subpoenaed
court witness for the federal or state government, or a subdivision thereof,
shall be entitled to leave with pay for such duty in addition to keeping fees
received for such duty if the town is provided documentation for each day. An
employee called as a witness in a private court case must take leave without
pay, vacation, or compensatory leave.
   (dd)   Education leave. Education leave at full or part pay for a period not
to exceed nine months may be granted to an employee with the approval of the
town manager. If the educational leave exceeds 15 days or any equivalent in a
period of one year, it shall also be approved by the town council. An employee
granted educational leave with pay for a period of 15 or more days shall enter
into a formal contract with the town, in which the employee agrees to return to
the service of the town upon completion of the training and remain an employee
of the town for a period equal to twice the educational leave which the
employee received, or reimburse the town for all compensation received while on
educational leave.
   (ee)   Reinstatement generally. An employee of the town who is on education,
parental, sick or other authorized leave will normally be reinstated to the
former position, or one comparable in seniority, status and salary, if such
employee returns to town service at the expiration of such leave or authorized
extension thereof. An employee who fails to return within the required time
shall be considered as having voluntarily resigned.
   (ff)   Reinstatement following military service. An employee called to
extended active duty with the United States military forces who does not
volunteer for service beyond the period for which called shall be reinstated to
the position he/she would have attained but for military service, provided the
employee:
   (1)   Applies for reinstatement as provided for by law; and
   (2)   Is able to perform the essential functions of the former position with
or without reasonable accommodation; or
   (3)   If unable to perform the essential functions of the former position
with or without reasonable accommodation, due to disability sustained as a
result of military service, but is able to perform the duties of another
position in the service of the town, he/she shall be employed in such other
position as will provide the nearest approximation of the seniority, status and
pay which he/she otherwise would have been provided. Upon re-employment, an
employee is entitled to benefits the individual would have attained, with
reasonable certainty, had he or she remained continuously employed.
   (gg)   Payment of leave upon separation. Regular employees and probationary
employees who have completed six months' satisfactory service and given a
minimum required notice shall be paid for accumulated vacation not to exceed
240 hours. Employees who are dismissed, all in full or in part, for detrimental
personal conduct or grossly inefficient job performance shall not receive pay
for accumulated vacation. All employees, except department directors, the
deputy town manager, and the assistant town manager, are paid for any
accumulated holiday leave upon separation. Any employees also shall be paid for
accumulated compensatory time earned while nonexempt from the overtime
provisions of the fair labor standards act. All remaining sick leave shall end
and terminate without compensation when an employee separates from town
employment.
(Code 1982, § 2-68; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-
1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord. No. 97-013, 4-24-1997; Ord. No.
98-003, 5-28-1998; Ord. No. 2008-04, 3-13-2008; Ord. No. 2010-Code-09, 12-16-
2010; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 5-27-2021)
Sec. 2-93. Travel.
   The town manager shall be responsible for establishing, administering,
revising and maintaining a travel policy applicable to all town employees.
Vehicles owned by the town will be provided to certain personnel for town
business only and shall not be used for personal purposes. If a town vehicle is
involved in an accident, either on public or private property, the police
department, the appropriate supervisor, and the risk management specialist
shall be notified immediately.
(Code 1982, § 2-69; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-
1996; Ord. No. 98-003, 5-28-1998)
Sec. 2-94. Separation.
   (a)   Types. All separations of employees from positions in the service of
the town will normally be designated as one of the following types and will
normally be accomplished in the manner indicated: Resignation, reduction_in
force, disability, voluntary retirement, unavailability, dismissal or death.
   (b)   Resignation and notice. An employee may resign by submitting in
writing to his/her immediate supervisor the reasons for resignation and the
effective date as far in advance as possible. The minimum notice requirement is
two weeks, unless, by agreement prior to employment or promotion, a longer
period has been specified. Failure to provide minimum notice shall result in
payment for accumulated vacation leave being forfeited, unless the notice is
waived upon recommendation of the department director and approval of the town
manager. Employees may not use leave in lieu of a notice. Three consecutive
days of absence without reporting in the manner required by the department
director may be considered to be a voluntary resignation without minimum
notice.
   (c)   Reduction_in_force. Reduction_in_force may include deletion of a
specific position or positions or overall reduction of town staffing. Where
specific positions are no longer needed by the town, the incumbents, if any,
shall be subject to the reduction_in_force. In the event that an overall
reduction_in_force becomes necessary, primary consideration shall be given to
organizational needs, as well as the quality of each employee's past
performance, conduct, and seniority, in determining those employees to be
retained. The town will determine how to weigh these factors in order to best
serve the needs of the town. Employees who are laid off because of a reduction
in_force shall be given at least 30 days' notice of anticipated layoff. No
employee shall be separated while there are temporary employees serving in the
same class in the department, unless the employee is not willing to transfer to
the position held by the temporary employee. An employee who has been reduced
in force may be considered for internal job listings for a period of two years.
   (d)   Disability. An employee who cannot satisfactorily perform the
essential functions of a job because of a physical or mental disability may be
separated. If requested by the employee, the town and employee must first fully
explore reasonable accommodation(s) which might permit the employee to resume
satisfactory performance. Reasonable accommodation may include transfer to a
different position. Action may be initiated by the employee or the town, but,
in all cases, it must be accompanied by medical evidence acceptable to the town
manager. The town may require an examination, at the town's expense, performed
by a physician of the town's choice.
   (e)   Voluntary retirement. An employee who meets the conditions set forth
under the provisions of the state local government employees retirement system
may elect to retire and receive all benefits earned under the retirement plan.
   (f)   Unavailability when leave is exhausted. An employee may be separated
if he/she becomes or remains unavailable for work after all applicable leave
and benefits (not including COBRA) have been exhausted and management, for
sufficient reasons, does not grant leave without pay.
   (g)   Dismissal. An employee may be dismissed in accordance with the
provisions and procedures of this article.
   (h)   Effective dates. Resignations and dismissals shall normally be
effective the last day actually worked. The effective date of these separations
may not be a holiday, a vacation day, or a compensatory leave day; however, the
effective date of separation for employees who are not returning from short-
term disability, sick leave, or leave without pay or similar status will be
determined individually. The effective date for an employee who dies shall be
the date of death.
(Code 1982, § 2-70; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-
1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord. No. 98-003, 5-28-1998)
Sec. 2-95. Disciplinary action.
   (a)   Progressive discipline. Progressive discipline is intended to
encourage employees to make permanent corrections to performance deficiencies
and minor problems relating to personal conduct. Progressive discipline may be
based on repeated performance deficiencies or detrimental personal conduct of
the same or of a different nature. Progressive discipline shall involve
consideration of all previous disciplinary actions, if any, whether for
unsatisfactory job performance or for detrimental personal conduct. In
determining the appropriate level of discipline for unsatisfactory job
performance, consideration shall also be given to the time lapsed since the
last warning for unsatisfactory performance or detrimental personal conduct, if
any.
   (b)   Disciplinary action for unsatisfactory or grossly inefficient job
performance. A regular employee may be placed on disciplinary suspension,
demoted, or terminated for unsatisfactory job performance if, after following
the procedure outlined in subsection
2-95(c), the employee's job performance is still deemed to be unsatisfactory.
Employees may also be warned, suspended, demoted or terminated for grossly
inefficient job performance, as outlined in 2-95(c). All cases of disciplinary
suspension, demotion or termination must be approved by the town manager or his
designee prior to giving final notice to the employee.
   (1)   Unsatisfactory and grossly inefficient job performance defined.
   (2)   Unsatisfactory job performance includes any aspects of the employee's
job which are not performed as required to meet the standards set by the
department director or the town manager. Examples of unsatisfactory job
performance include, but are not limited to, the following:
      a.   Demonstrated inefficiency, negligence, or incompetence in the
performance of duties;
      b.   Careless or negligent use of town property or equipment;
      c.   Discourteous treatment of the public or other employees;
      d.   Absence without approved leave;
      e.   Repeated improper use of leave privileges;
      f.   Repeated failure to report for duty at the assigned time and place;
or
      g.   Failure to carry out supervisory responsibilities.
   (3)   Grossly inefficient job performance is a disregard for any aspect of
an employee's job which results or could result in severe damage to town
property, serious injury to or death of an employee or citizen, significant
impact on town finances, or a loss of public confidence in town government.
Examples of grossly inefficient job performance include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      a.   Failure to wear required personal protective equipment or to observe
other safety work rules.
      b.   Failure to follow standard procedures or practices which result in a
significant loss of revenue to the town.
      c.   Failure to properly secure or protect town equipment or property
which results in damage to that property or other property, or injury to an
individual.
   (c)   Procedure for disciplinary action for unsatisfactory or grossly
inefficient job performance.
   (1)   An employee's supervisor shall notify the employee of any deficiency
in job performance and what is required for satisfactory job performance.
   (2)   An employee whose job performance is unsatisfactory should normally
receive progressive warnings before disciplinary action resulting in dismissal
is taken by the department director or the town manager; however, in cases of
grossly inefficient job performance, an employee may receive a step 2 warning,
a step 3 warning or may be dismissed without any prior disciplinary action.
When appropriate, progressive warnings should include the following steps:
      a.   Step 1: one or more documented oral warnings from the employee's
supervisor;
      b.   Step 2: A written warning to the employee from a supervisor,
outlines the performance deficiencies and serves as notice that corrected
performance must take place immediately in order to avoid a further
disciplinary action, including demotion;
      c.   Step 3: A final written warning from a supervisor serving notice
upon the employee that corrected performance must take place immediately in
order to avoid further disciplinary action, including dismissal.
   (3)   A demotion to a lower salary grade or within grade may be imposed no
earlier than step 3. A disciplinary suspension without pay may be imposed at
step 2 or step 3 or in conjunction with a later warning.
   (4)   The supervisor shall record the dates of any discussions with the
employee, the performance deficiencies discussed, the corrective actions
recommended and any time limits set, and submit such information to the
employee's permanent human resource file.
   (d)   Disciplinary action for detrimental personal conduct. With the
approval of the town manager, an employee may be placed on disciplinary
suspension, demoted or dismissed without prior warning due to personal conduct
detrimental to town service in order to avoid undue disruption of work, to
protect the safety of persons or property, or for other serious reasons. In
less serious or less disruptive situations, steps similar to those listed under
subsection
2-95(d) above may be in order. When an employee is suspended or dismissed
immediately, the employee may be told to leave town property at once and either
to report to a supervisor at a specific time or to remain away until further
notice.
   (e)   Detrimental personal conduct defined. Detrimental personal conduct
includes behavior, whether on-duty or off-duty, intentional or unintentional,
of such a serious detrimental nature that the functioning of the town may be or
has been impaired; the safety of persons or property may be or has been
threatened; the laws of the government may be or have been violated; or public
confidence in government is likely to be undermined. Examples of detrimental
personal conduct include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (1)   Fraud;
   (2)   Conviction of a felony or the entry of a plea of nolo contendere
thereto;
   (3)   Falsification of records for personal profit, to grant special
privileges, or to obtain employment;
   (4)   Willful misuse or gross negligence in the handling of town funds;
   (5)   Willful or wanton damage or destruction to property;
   (6)   Willful or wanton acts that endanger life or property;
   (7)   Possession of unauthorized firearms or other lethal weapons on the job
or bringing such onto town property;
   (8)   Communication of a threat or engaging in threatening behavior;
   (9)   Gross misuse or repeated personal use of town vehicles or equipment;
   (10)   Request for or acceptance of a gift or gifts in exchange for "favors"
or influence;
   (11)   Engaging in or condoning sexual harassment or other prohibited
harassment;
   (12)   Reporting to work, or working, under the influence of alcoholic
beverages, narcotic drugs, or any other unlawful drug, or partaking or
possessing of such while on duty;
   (13)   Withholding, misrepresentation or falsification of information
necessary for the investigation of alleged violations of this Code when such
information is requested by a supervisor, the town manager, or designee;
   (14)   Failure to comply with a reasonable order from an appropriate
supervisor (insubordination);
   (15)   Flagrant behavior or repeated rude or uncivil behavior directed
toward citizens or co-workers.
   (f)   Disciplinary actions relating to special job requirements. An employee
may be placed on disciplinary suspension, demoted or dismissed without prior
warning for failing to obtain or maintain a required license, certificate,
registration or similar document, or for failing to maintain a satisfactory
driving record when driving town equipment or vehicles is a job requirement.
   (g)   Nondisciplinary suspension. During the investigation, hearing, or
trial of an employee on any criminal charge, or during an investigation related
to alleged detrimental personal conduct, or during the course of civil action
involving an employee, when suspension would, in the opinion of the town
manager, be in the best interest of the town, the town manager may suspend the
employee for the duration of the proceedings as a nondisciplinary action.
Department directors may place an employee on nondisciplinary suspension in the
absence of the town manager, when such employee's alleged actions constitute
detrimental personal conduct. In such cases, the town manager or department
director may:
   (1)   Relieve the employee temporarily of all duties and responsibilities
and allow the employee no compensation for the period of the suspension; or
   (2)   Assign the employee new duties and responsibilities and allow the
employee to receive such compensation as is in keeping with the new duties and
responsibilities. If the employee is reinstated following the suspension, such
employee may be restored any benefits to which the employee would otherwise
have been entitled had the suspension not occurred; however, a written warning
and a disciplinary suspension of 80 hours or less without pay may be imposed
based on the extent to which the employee's behavior may have constituted
detrimental personal conduct. If the employee is dismissed following the
suspension, the employee shall not be eligible for any pay from the date of
suspension; provided, however, all other benefits, with the exception of the
accrual of vacation and sick leave, shall be maintained during the period of
suspension.
   (h)   Disciplinary suspension and deductions.
   (1)   Any employee who is nonexempt from the overtime provisions of the FLSA
may be suspended without pay, normally for one day, in conjunction with a step
2, step 3, or subsequent warning relating to performance of duties.
   (2)   Any employee who is exempt from the overtime provisions of the FLSA
may be suspended without pay, normally for one day, in conjunction with a step
2, step 3 or subsequent warning on job performance involving any serious
violation of safety rules relating to the prevention of serious danger to the
town's property or to other employees. For performance problems not relating to
safety, accrued vacation or holiday leave may be reduced, normally by one day.
   (3)   For nonexempt employees, suspension of 80 hours or less may be
imposed, along with a written warning relating to detrimental personal conduct.
For exempt employees to be suspended, the detrimental personal conduct must
involve serious safety violations, or must be in one-week increments. In other
cases of detrimental personal conduct, deductions of 80 hours or less may be
made from accrued vacation or holiday leave of an exempt employee.
   (4)   All disciplinary deductions from accrued leave shall be considered the
equivalent of a disciplinary suspension.
   (i)   Predisciplinary conference and notification of disciplinary action.
   (1)   When an employee is proposed to be placed on disciplinary suspension,
demoted or dismissed, the town manager shall insure that the employee is given
written notice of the proposed disciplinary action, advised of the evidence
supporting the proposed action, and is provided with an opportunity to respond
to the proposed disciplinary action. The employee's response shall be given due
deliberation prior to making a final determination. Mechanical recording of all
or any part of a conference or other meeting pertaining to the disciplinary
action is prohibited without prior agreement of all parties subject to being
recorded.
   (2)   At the time an employee is notified of any final disciplinary decision
involving disciplinary suspension, involuntary demotion, or dismissal, or as
soon as possible thereafter, the town manager shall insure that the employee is
provided with written notice of the action taken, the effective date, the
reason or reasons for the action, and the recourse, if any, available to the
employee under the provisions of this article.
   (j)   Employee appeal. An employee who has completed initial probation or a
probationary employee who alleges unlawful employment discrimination and who is
disciplined may appeal the disciplinary action in accordance with the grievance
procedure.
(Code 1982, § 2-71; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-
1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord. No. 98-003, 5-28-1998)
Sec. 2-96. Grievance procedure.
   (a)   Policy. It is the policy of the town to provide a just procedure for
the presentation, consideration and disposition of employee grievances. The
purpose of this section is to outline the procedure and to assure all employees
that a response to their complaints and grievances will be prompt and fair.
   (b)   Definition and limitations. A grievance is a claim or complaint by an
employee based upon an event or condition which affects the circumstances under
which an employee works, allegedly caused by misinterpretation, unfair
application, or lack of established policy pertaining to employment conditions.
   (1)   Appeals involving a disciplinary suspension, involuntary demotion,
dismissal or suspension of driving privileges by the town are initiated at step
3 of the grievance procedure. All appeals must be filed within 20 calendar days
of the date the final disciplinary decision is communicated to the employee.
   (2)   Grievances concerning performance evaluations or performance awards
may only be appealed up to step 2 of the grievance procedure; however,
department directors may appeal to the town manager.
   (c)   Purposes. The purposes of the grievance procedure include, but are not
limited to, the following:
   (1)   Providing employees with a procedure by which their complaints can be
considered promptly, fairly, and without reprisal;
   (2)   Encouraging employees to express themselves about the conditions of
work which affect them as employees;
   (3)   Promoting better understanding of policies, practices, and procedures
which affect employees;
   (4)   Increasing employees' confidence that human resource actions taken are
in accordance with established, fair and uniform policies and procedures; and
   (5)   Increasing the sense of responsibility exercised by supervisors in
dealing with their employees.
   (d)   Procedure. When an employee or a group of employees has a grievance,
the following successive steps are to be taken unless otherwise provided. The
number of calendar days indicated for each step should be considered the
maximum, unless otherwise provided, and every effort should be made to expedite
the process. The time limits at any step, however, may be extended by mutual
consent or due to unusual circumstances beyond the reasonable control of either
party. The last step initiated by an employee shall be considered to be the
step at which the grievance is resolved. Mechanical recording of all or part of
any meeting is prohibited without prior agreement of all parties subject to
being recorded. While all parties are entitled to seek legal advice, attorneys
may not be present at administrative or investigative meetings related to the
grievance without the consent of all parties. At each step, the individual
responding to the grievance is encouraged to consult with any employee of the
town, or others as appropriate, in order to reach a fair, impartial, and
equitable resolution. All employees consulted during a grievance are required
to cooperate to the fullest extent possible. A decision to rescind a
disciplinary suspension, demotion or dismissal must be approved in advance by
the town manager.
   (1)   Informal grievance. The employee with a grievance is encouraged to
resolve the grievance with the appropriate supervisor in an informal face-to-
face meeting, before going on to the formality required in the following steps.
Either the employee or the supervisor may involve the respective department
director and/or chief human resources officer as a resource to help resolve the
grievance. Using the informal grievance does not change the grievance deadline
unless both parties mutually agree to an extension.
   (2)   Formal grievance. To be considered, a grievance must be filed within
the time limit described in this section and must include the full basis for
the employee's complaints, all information which supports the employee's
position, and a statement outlining what the employee wishes to have happen as
a result of the grievance.
      a.   Step 1: If no resolution to the grievance is reached informally, the
employee who wishes to pursue a grievance shall present the grievance to the
appropriate supervisor in writing. The grievance must be presented within 20
calendar days of the event or within 20 calendar days of learning of the event
or condition. The supervisor shall have a response to the grievance delivered
to the employee within 20 calendar days after receipt of the grievance. The
response shall be in writing and signed by the supervisor. In addition, the
employee shall sign a copy to acknowledge receipt thereof. The supervisor shall
send copies of the grievance and answer to the human resources department.
      b.   Step 2: If the grievance is not resolved to the satisfaction of the
employee by the supervisor, the employee may appeal, in writing, to the
appropriate department director, within 20 calendar days after receipt of the
response received in step 1. The department director shall respond to the
appeal, stating his or her decision within 20 calendar days after receipt of
the appeal. Such response shall be in writing and shall be signed by the
employee to acknowledge receipt. The department director shall send copies of
the grievance and the response to the human resources department.
      c.   Step 3: If the grievance is not resolved to the satisfaction of the
employee at the end of step 2, the employee may appeal, in writing, to the town
manager within 20 calendar days after receipt of the response received in step
2. The town manager shall respond to the appeal in writing. The response shall
be signed by the town manager and hand-delivered or mailed to the employee
within 20 calendar days of completing the review. A mailed response shall be
sent by certified or registered mail with return receipt requested. The town
manager's decision shall be the final decision.
   (e)   Grievance and adverse action appeal procedure; unlawful employment
discrimination. Any applicant for town employment, town employee, or former
town employee who has reason to believe that any employment action, including
promotion, training, classification, pay, disciplinary warning, disciplinary
suspension, transfer, demotion, layoff, or termination of employment was based
on age, sex, race, color, national origin, religion, or disability has the
right to appeal such action using the grievance procedure outlined in
subsection (d) of this article, if he or she so desires. While employees are
encouraged to use the progressive steps outlined in the grievance procedure,
employees claiming discrimination shall have the right to appeal directly to
the town manager (refer to step 3 above). A failure to demonstrate that
unlawful discrimination was the basis for the act shall render the balance of
the appeal moot.
   (f)   Back pay awards. Back pay and benefits may be awarded to reinstated
employees in disciplinary suspension, demotion, dismissal and discrimination
cases.
   (g)   Conflict with policies and regulations. No decision or determination
of any grievance shall in any way conflict with the town policies, resolutions,
ordinances or statutes applicable thereto.
(Code 1982, § 2-72; Ord. No. 91-5, § 1, 2-28-1991; Ord. No. 95-007, § 1, 1-26-
1995; Ord. No. 96-010, § 1, 10-24-1996; Ord. No. 98-003, 5-28-1998; Ord. No.
2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Secs. 2-97--2-107. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. DEPARTMENTS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 2-108. Department names; organization.
   The town manager may create, change, abolish, and consolidate offices,
positions, and departments of the Town and generally organize and reorganize
Town government in order to promote orderly and efficient administration of
town affairs, subject to the limitations contained in N.C.G.S. 160A-146. All
references in this Code of Ordinances to a specific department or position
shall be deemed to be a reference to any successor department or position, or
to the department or position that has assumed responsibility for the subject
matter of the relevant Code section.
(Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Secs. 2-109--2-128. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. DEPARTMENT OF INSPECTIONS AND PERMITS
Sec. 2-129. Created.
   The department of inspections and permits is hereby created, and the
executive official in charge thereof shall be known, and referred to in this
article, as the "director."
(Code 1976, § 15-5; Code 1982, § 2-74)
Sec. 2-130. Right of entry.
   The director or his agent shall make the inspections and tests necessary to
obtain compliance with the Code. In cases of new construction, alterations or
repairs, the right of entry upon any premises for inspections and tests is
absolute between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any working day.
(Code 1976, § 15-6; Code 1982, § 2-75)
Sec. 2-131. Stop work orders.
   Whenever any work or activity subject to regulation by the department of
inspections and permits is undertaken in substantial violation of any state or
local law, or in a manner that endangers life or property, the appropriate
inspector may order the specific part of the work or activity that is in
violation or presents such a hazard to be immediately stopped. Such order shall
be in writing, directed to the person doing the work or activity, and shall
state the specific work or activity to be stopped, the specific reasons
therefor, and the conditions under which the work or activity may be resumed. A
copy of the order shall be delivered to the holder of the development approval
and the owner of the property (if that person is not the holder of the
development approval) by personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class
mail. The person delivering the stop work order shall certify that the order
was delivered. A stop work order involving alleged violation of the State
Building Code or any approved local modification may be appealed pursuant to
G.S. 160D-1114. Violation of a stop work order shall constitute a Class 1
misdemeanor.
(Code 1976, § 15-7; Code 1982, § 2-76; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
Sec. 2-132. Records.
   The department of inspections and permits shall keep official records of
applications received, permits and certificates issued and fees collected. File
copies of all papers in connection with building operations shall be retained
in the official records as required by the municipal records retention and
disposition schedule. Blueprints and plans of structures subject to regulation
under the North Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-family Dwellings and
miscellaneous work may be approved, stamped by the inspections and permits
department and returned to the contractor at the time of issuance of the
building permit. These approved plans must be kept on the job site at all times
until the issuance of a certificate of compliance.
(Code 1976, § 15-8; Code 1982, § 2-77; Ord. No. 81-13, § 1, 9-24-1981; Ord. No.
2022-Code-01, 4-28-2022)
Secs. 2-133--2-143. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. POLICE DEPARTMENT*
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Law enforcement, G.S. 160A-281 et seq.
----------
Sec. 2-144. Established.
   The police department of the town is hereby established. It shall consist of
a chief and as many police officers and other staff as the town council shall
from time to time determine based on recommendation of the town manager.
(Code 1976, § 12-1; Code 1982, § 15-1; Ord. No. 03-002, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 2-145. Duties.
   The police department shall carry out all orders of the town council,
enforce all laws and ordinances of the town and the state and shall at all
times preserve the peace, protect the property and the safety of the citizens
of Cary.
(Code 1976, § 12-4; Code 1982, § 15-2; Ord. No. 03-002, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 2-146. Chain of command.
   All officers and members of the police department shall be accountable to
the chief.
(Code 1976, § 12-2; Code 1982, § 15-3; Ord. No. 03-002, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 2-147. Uniforms and equipment.
   The chief of police and other police officers and members shall wear such
uniforms and equipment as shall be issued or approved by the town and shall
keep the same in a neat condition, and upon discharge, resignation or
dismissal, surrender such uniform and equipment when the same shall have been
purchased by the town for their use. Police officers retiring in good standing
may be authorized to keep certain uniform items or equipment pursuant to state
law and town policy.
(Code 1976, § 12-5; Code 1982, § 15-4; Ord. No. 03-002, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 2-148. Duties of chief of police.
   (a)   The chief of police shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to
govern the department and shall be responsible to the town manager for the
personnel, morale and general efficiency of the department.
   (b)   The chief shall cause to be conducted a continuing program of
training, including suitable drills and instruction and all other matters
generally considered essential.
(Code 1976, § 12-3; Code 1982, § 15-5; Ord. No. 03-002, 1-9-2003)
Sec. 2-149. Police reserves.
   Reserve police officers shall be called to active duty only on emergency or
on special occasions when regular police officers of the town require their
assistance and shall be subject to call of the chief, or designee, for training
or other duty at other times. The chief of the police department is authorized
to determine when the services of reserve police officers are required.
(Code 1976, § 12-6; Code 1982, § 15-6; Ord. No. 03-002, 1-9-2003)
Secs. 2-150--2-160. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS AND AUTHORITIES
Sec. 2-161. Boards and Commissions purpose statement.
   The Cary Town Council recognizes and values the importance of citizen
participation in local government. Two of Cary's value statements directly
speak to this:
      •   Our organization exists to serve our citizens. We will be open,
ensure access, encourage involvement and be accountable to our citizens.
      •   We will achieve the best results through effective teamwork,
strategic partnerships and community participation.
   To achieve these values, the Cary Town Council utilizes volunteer boards as
a mechanism to engage citizens in the democratic process. The primary
responsibility of these boards is to provide advice to the town council from a
citizen perspective.
   Sections
2-161 through
2-170 shall function as the basic Bylaws for all Town Boards and Commissions,
along with the board or commission specific section
2-171 through
2-179 as set forth below.
   Failure of the town, council or any board or commission to strictly comply
with the provisions of this Article V shall not be grounds for claiming a
procedural defect in any action taken.
(Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-162. General provisions.
   (a)   Definitions.
      (1)   Board. For the purposes of this article, the word "board" shall
mean and include any board, commission, committee, agency or similar group made
up in whole or in part of nonelected appointees of the town council, whether
established by general statute, charter, ordinance, resolution, motion or
otherwise. Notwithstanding the preceding, for special committees, task forces
and the like this Article shall apply only as appropriate, and the mayor shall
have appointment responsibility as provided in Town Code section
2-33.
      (2)   Board Year. Board year shall mean a 12-month time period beginning
with the term effective date.
   (b)   Use of provisions. Unless otherwise required by North Carolina General
Statutes, where any provision of this article conflicts with any provisions
imposed elsewhere in the Code, the provisions of this article shall be deemed
to be controlling.
(Code 1976, § 2-19; Code 1982, § 2-3; Ord. No. 77-37, 10-13-1977; Ord. No. 80-
3, § 1, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 94-001, 1-13-1994; Ord. No. 03-006, 5-22-2003; Ord.
No. 2008-Code-02, 6-12-2008; Ord. No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-2008; Ord. No. 2009-
Code-11, 10-8-2009; Ord. No. 2012-Code-05, 9-6-2012)
Sec. 2-163. Membership, general.
   (a)   Membership eligibility and appointment process. In order to be
eligible for appointment to a board, a person must be 18 years of age or older
and a Cary resident for the duration of the appointment term, unless otherwise
expressly provided by law or ordinance, and must file an application on a form
provided by the town clerk. Unless otherwise directed, or unless otherwise
explicitly provided for elsewhere in this Code, all appointments to all boards,
and all appointments of the chair of all boards, shall be made by the council
as a whole, and neither the power to appoint nor the power to recommend persons
for appointment shall be delegated to any board or to any committee of the
council. Unless otherwise directed, no person shall serve on more than one
board at the same time. No town employee shall be appointed to any board.
   (b)   Unexpired terms. The council intends to make appointments to fill
unexpired portions of terms, created by vacancies, as expeditiously as needed.
Further, the council recognizes that the urgency of filling such vacancies may
vary depending upon the circumstances of the vacancy.
   (c)   Removal. All members of all boards shall serve at the pleasure of the
town council, regardless of the terms for which appointed, and the town council
may in its discretion at any time remove any members of any board for any
reason, including inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.
   (d)   Resignations. If a member concludes that he or she will have
difficulty fulfilling the volunteer commitment, the member may voluntarily
resign from the board. Notice should be communicated in writing to the town
clerk's office. Members who have been removed from a board or who have resigned
prior to completion of their term shall disclose such fact in any subsequent
application for board appointment.
   (e)   More specific appointment procedures are found in Policy 162, process
for appointments to volunteer boards and commissions. This Policy may be
amended or repealed from time to time in accordance with council practices and
procedures.
   (f)   Members who have resigned or been removed from office generally are
not eligible for subsequent appointment to a board or commission unless good
cause is shown.
(Code 1976, § 2-20; Code 1982, § 2-4; Ord. No. 77-37, 10-13-1977; Ord. No. 77-
40, § 2, 10-27-1977; Ord. No. 79-2, § 1, 2-8-1979; Ord. No. 94-001, 1-13-1994;
Ord. No. 03-006, 5-22-2003; Ord. No. 2008-Code-02, 6-12-2008; Ord. No. 2008-
Code-06, 10-30-2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-164. Terms of office.
   The terms of office of members of all boards shall be three years unless a
vacancy is being filled, in which case a term may be one, two, or three years,
depending on the remainder of the term. Terms on all boards shall be staggered,
with the terms of approximately one-third of the membership expiring each year
to ensure there is always one or more members with experience on each board.
The term of office of the chair of each board shall be one year. All terms
shall begin on October 1 following appointment. A person shall normally serve
no more than two consecutive full terms on the same board; however, the council
may waive this requirement on a case-by-case basis.
(Code 1976, § 2-19; Code 1982, § 2-3; Ord. No. 77-37, 10-13-1977; Ord. No. 80-
3, § 1, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 94-001, 1-13-1994; Ord. No. 03-006, 5-22-2003; Ord.
No. 2008-Code-02, 6-12-2008; Ord. No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-2008; Ord. No. 2009-
Code-11, 10-8-2009)
   Charter reference—Terms of commissions, committees and boards, §
3.16.
Sec. 2-165. Conflicts of interest.
   All board members shall read and be familiar with such laws, policies and
guidelines as may be in effect from time to time concerning ethics and
conflicts of interest for town advisory boards and commissions and shall sign
such policies and guidelines of the Town as required by their terms. Refer to
state law and policy statement 147 as revised from time to time in accordance
with council practices and procedures, for the conflict of interest guidelines
that apply to boards.
(Code 1976, § 2-19; Code 1982, § 2-3; Ord. No. 77-37, 10-13-1977; Ord. No. 80-
3, § 1, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 94-001, 1-13-1994; Ord. No. 03-006, 5-22-2003; Ord.
No. 06-006, 3-23-2006; Ord. No. 2008-Code-02, 6-12-2008; Ord. No. 2008-Code-06,
10-30-2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
Sec. 2-166. Attendance at board meetings.
   Although recognizing and appreciating the fact that members of the boards
are generally citizen volunteers, the town council deems it essential that
members of all town boards attend meetings regularly for the prompt and
efficient transaction of town affairs. The staff liaison of each board shall
maintain attendance records, including attendance at regular meetings, work
sessions and all special called meetings. Members participating electronically
in their meetings shall abide by Policy 150. If at any time during a board year
any member misses three meetings (not including a meeting in which the member
participated electronically according to Policy 150), that board member is
responsible for notifying the deputy town clerk and the town council liaison to
that board. The deputy town clerk shall include an item on the next available
town council meeting agenda requesting that the council as a whole make a
decision on this member's continued service on that board.
   As a courtesy, prior to the town council's annual appointments to boards,
the deputy town clerk shall review the attendance records and shall notify all
board members who have missed three or more meetings in a 12-month board year
that they must reapply if they wish to be considered by the town council to
finish their original appointed term. Council will then consider the
applications of those members during the normal selection and appointment
process.
(Code 1982, § 2-5; Ord. No. 79-2, § 2, 2-8-1979; Ord. No. 91-6, § 1, 2-28-1991;
Ord. No. 91-50, § 1, 12-12-1991; Ord. No. 94-001, 1-13-1994; Ord. No. 03-006,
5-22-2003; Ord. No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009;
Ord. No. 2013-Code-01, 4-18-2013)
Sec. 2-167. Reimbursement for expenses.
   All board members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed
for pre-approved expenses from funds allocated by the town council during the
budget process.
(Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-168. Meetings.
   All boards shall meet as often as necessary to conduct the business before
it. All meetings and hearings of all boards shall be subject to the open
meetings law.
(Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-169. Rules and records.
   All boards shall adhere to Policy Statement 150, General Rules of Order, as
amended from time to time in accordance with council practices and procedures,
which includes the general parliamentary procedures for the board. Each board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings and discussions, showing the vote of each
member upon every question, or a member's absence or failure to vote, and shall
keep records of its resolutions, findings, recommendations, and other official
actions.
(Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-170. Cooperation with others.
   All boards shall cooperate in all respects with other town boards, town
officials and employees.
(Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-171. Planning and zoning board.
   (a)   Membership. The planning and zoning board shall consist of nine
members. Eight members shall be appointed by the town council and shall reside
within the corporate boundaries of the town. The other member shall reside
outside the corporate boundaries of the town but within the town's
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction and be recommended by the town council
for appointment by the county board of commissioners. All members shall have
equal rights, privileges, and duties regardless of whether the matter at issue
arises within or outside of the town's corporate boundaries.
   (b)   Alternate member. The town council may, in its discretion, appoint an
alternate member from within the corporate boundaries of the town to serve on
the planning and zoning board in the absence or temporary disqualification of
any regular member or to fill a vacancy pending appointment of a member. The
alternate member shall be appointed for the same term, at the same time, and in
the same manner as regular members. The alternate member, while attending any
regular or special meeting of the board and serving on behalf of any regular
member, shall have and may exercise all the powers and duties of a regular
member.
   (c)   Officers. The town council shall appoint one of the planning and
zoning board members to serve as the chair of the planning and zoning board.
   (d)   Amending section. Amendments to this Section
2-171 shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in N.C.G.S. § 160D-
601.
(Code 1982, § 2-6; Ord. No. 03-006, 5-22-2003; Ord. No. 06-006, 3-23-2006; Ord.
No. 07-002, 2-8-2007; Ord. No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-11,
10-8-2009; Ord. No. 2012-Code-05, 9-6-2012; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
   State law reference(s)—Planning board authorized, G.S. 160D-301.
Sec. 2-172. Zoning board of adjustment.
   (a)    Membership. The zoning board of adjustment shall consist of five
members plus two alternates appointed by the town council. Six of the seven
total members shall be appointed by the town council and shall reside within
the corporate boundaries of the town. One member shall reside outside the
town's corporate boundaries but within the town's extraterritorial planning
jurisdiction and be recommended by the town council for appointment by the
county board of commissioners. All members (including the alternates when
serving in the absence or temporary disqualification of a regular member or to
fill a vacancy) shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties regardless of
whether the matter at issue arises within or outside of the town's corporate
boundaries. Vacant positions on the board and members who are disqualified from
voting on a quasi-judicial matter shall not be considered "members of the
board" for calculation of the requisite supermajority if there are no qualified
alternates available to take the place of such members.
    (b)   Officers. The town council shall appoint one member to serve as
chair.
   (c)   Board decisions. As appropriate, decisions rendered by the board shall
be recorded with the register of deeds in the county where the property subject
to the decision is located.
   (d)   Amending section. Amendments to this Section
2-172 shall be in accordance with the procedures set forth in N.C.G.S. § 160D-
601.
(Code 1982, § 2-7; Ord. No. 03-006, 5-22-2003; Ord. No. 06-006, 3-23-2006; Ord.
No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009; Ord. No. 2012-
Code-05, 9-6-2012; Ord. No. 2013-Code-04, 9-26-2013; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-
24-2021)
   State law reference—Zoning board of adjustment, G.S. 160D-302.
Sec. 2-173. Parks, recreation and cultural resources advisory board.
   (a)   Membership. The board shall consist of ten members appointed by the
town council. All members shall reside within the corporate boundaries of the
town.
   (b)   Alternate member. The town council may, in its discretion, appoint an
alternate member from within the corporate boundaries of the town to serve on
the parks, recreation and cultural resources advisory board in the absence or
temporary disqualification of any regular member or to fill a vacancy pending
appointment of a member. The alternate member shall be appointed for the same
term, at the same time, and in the same manner as regular members. The
alternate member, while attending any regular or special meeting of the board
and serving on behalf of any regular member, shall have and may exercise all
the powers and duties of a regular member.
   (c)   Officers. The town council shall appoint one member to serve as chair.
   (d)   Other resources. Policy Statement 148, parks, recreation and cultural
resources committee structure policy, as amended from time to time in
accordance with council policies and procedures, sets forth additional
structure and appointment procedures for the committees affiliated with the
parks, recreation and cultural resources advisory board.
(Code 1982, § 2-8; Ord. No. 03-006, 5-22-2003; Ord. No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-
2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-174. Historic Preservation Commission.
   (a)   Membership. The historic preservation commission shall consist of
seven members appointed by the town council in accordance with the process set
forth in Section
2-163 except as modified herein. All members shall reside within Cary's
planning and development regulation jurisdiction. If there are historic
districts or designated landmarks in the extraterritorial area, six of the
seven total members shall be appointed by the town council and shall reside
within the corporate boundaries of Cary. One member shall reside outside Cary’s
corporate boundaries but within Cary’s extraterritorial planning jurisdiction
and be recommended by the town council for appointment by the county board of
commissioners. All members shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties
regardless of whether the matter at issue arises within or outside of the
town's corporate boundaries. If there are no historic districts or designated
landmarks in the extraterritorial area, all seven total members shall be
appointed by the town council and shall reside within the corporate boundaries
of the town. A majority of members shall have demonstrated special interest,
experience or education in history, architecture, or related fields. Vacant
positions on the board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-
judicial matter shall not be considered "members of the board" for calculation
of the requisite supermajority if there are no qualified alternates available
to take the place of such members.
   (b)   Alternate member. The town council may, in its discretion, appoint an
alternate member from within the corporate boundaries of the town to serve on
the Historic Preservation Commission in the absence or temporary
disqualification of any regular member or to fill a vacancy pending appointment
of a member. The alternate member shall be appointed for the same term, at the
same time, and in the same manner as regular members. The alternate member,
while attending any regular or special meeting of the board and serving on
behalf of any regular member, shall have and may exercise all the powers and
duties of a regular member.
   (c)   Officers. The town council shall appoint one member to serve as chair.
   (d)   Terms of Office. Member terms shall be three-year terms in accordance
with Section
2-164 except that initial appointments to the newly established seven-member
commission will be as follows: positions 1 and 2 will initially serve a four-
year term, with three-year terms being assigned thereafter, positions 3 through
5 will be assigned three-year terms, with three-year terms being assigned
thereafter, and positions 6 and 7 will be assigned two-year terms, with three-
year terms being assigned thereafter in order to create staggered terms for the
overall membership.
   (e)   Board decisions. As appropriate, decisions rendered by the Historic
Preservation Commission shall be recorded with the register of deeds in the
county where the property subject to the decision is located.
   (f)   Amending section. Amendments to this Section 2-174 shall be in
accordance with the procedures set forth in G.S. § 160D-601.
(Ord. No. 2014-Code-03, 6-26-2014; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021; Ord. No.
2022-Code-03, 9-22-2022; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-2023)
   State law reference—Historic Preservation Commission, G.S. Chapter 160D,
Article 9, Part 4.
Sec. 2-175. Public art advisory board.
   (a)   Membership. The public art advisory board shall consist of nine
members appointed by the town council. All members shall reside within the
corporate boundaries of the town. The board shall be composed of
representatives from local visual arts organizations, working artists,
architects, private development interests, and the general public. If
representation as described above cannot be achieved due to the applications
received, the town council may make other appropriate appointments in keeping
with the intent of this advisory board.
   (b)   Alternate member. The town council may, in its discretion, appoint an
alternate member from within the corporate boundaries of the town to serve on
the public art advisory board in the absence or temporary disqualification of
any regular member or to fill a vacancy pending appointment of a member. The
alternate member shall be appointed for the same term, at the same time, and in
the same manner as regular members. The alternate member, while attending any
regular or special meeting of the board and serving on behalf of any regular
member, shall have and may exercise all the powers and duties of a regular
member.
   (c)   Officers. The town council shall appoint one of the members to serve
as the chair.
(Code 1982, § 2-10; Ord. No. 03-006, 5-22-2003; Ord. No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-
2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-176. Reserved.
Sec. 2-177. Information services advisory board.
   (a)   Membership. The information services advisory board shall consist of
ten members appointed by the town council. The board shall be composed of two
members with special training or expertise in internet applications,
development or design; two members with special training or expertise in
marketing, advertising or public relations; and two members with special
training or expertise in mass media such as radio, television, cable or
newspaper and four other members from the private sector or general public. All
members shall reside within the corporate boundaries of the town. If
representation as described above cannot be achieved due to the applications
received, the town council may make other appropriate appointments in keeping
with the intent of this advisory board.
   (b)   Alternate member. The town council may, in its discretion, appoint an
alternate member from within the corporate boundaries of the town to serve on
the information services advisory board in the absence or temporary
disqualification of any regular member or to fill a vacancy pending appointment
of a member. The alternate member shall be appointed for the same term, at the
same time, and in the same manner as regular members. The alternate member,
while attending any regular or special meeting of the board and serving on
behalf of any regular member, shall have and may exercise all the powers and
duties of a regular member.
   (c)   Officers. The town council shall appoint one of the members to serve
as the chair.
(Ord. No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009)
Sec. 2-178. Reserved.
Sec. 2-179. Environmental advisory board.
   (a)   Membership. The environmental advisory board shall consist of nine
members appointed by the town council. All members shall reside within the
corporate boundaries of the town. At least four members of the board shall have
technical expertise working with environmental issues or partner associations
with organizations that work with environmental issues. If representation as
described above cannot be achieved due to the applications received, the town
council may make other appropriate appointments in keeping with the intent of
this advisory board.
   (b)   Alternate member(s). The town council may, in its discretion, appoint
up to two alternate members from within the corporate boundaries of the town to
serve on the environmental advisory board in the absence or temporary
disqualification of any regular member or to fill a vacancy pending appointment
of a member. The alternate members shall be appointed for the same term, at the
same time, and in the same manner as regular members. The alternate members,
while attending any regular or special meeting of the board and serving on
behalf of any regular member, shall have and may exercise all the powers and
duties of a regular member.
   (c)   Officers. The town council shall appoint one of the members to serve
as the chair.
(Ord. No. 2008-Code-02, 6-12-2008; Ord. No. 2008-Code-06, 10-30-2008; Ord. No.
2009-Code-11, 10-8-2009; Ord. No. - , 9-23-2021)
Sec. 2-180. Reserved.
Chapter 3
RESERVED
 
Chapter 4
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES*
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Alcoholic beverages, G.S. ch. 18B; city beer and
wine retail licenses, G.S. 105-113.77 et seq.
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 4-1.   Definitions.
Sec. 4-2.   Sunday sales.
Secs. 4-3—4-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 4-1. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Malt beverage, wine, fortified wine, unfortified wine, mixed beverage,
alcoholic beverage, person and sale shall be defined as these words are defined
in G.S. 105-113.68. and 18B-101.
   To sell shall mean to transfer, trade, exchange or barter in any manner or
by any means for consideration.
(Code 1982, § 3-1; Ord. No. 94-004, 2-24-1994; Ord. No. 2022-Code-05, 11-17-
2022)
   State law reference(s)--State definitions, G.S. 18B-101.
Sec. 4-2. Sunday sales.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. 160A-205.3, the sale of malt
beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages shall be
allowed within the corporate limits of the Town on Sundays beginning at 10:00
A.M. at any premises licensed pursuant to G.S. 18B-1001.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-04, 7-27-2017)
Secs. 4-3--4-20. Reserved.
Chapter 5
RESERVED
 
Chapter 6
ANIMALS*
----------
   *State law references—Municipal regulations as to animals, G.S. 160A-182,
160A-186 et seq.; protection of animals, G.S. Ch. 19A; rabies, G.S. 130A-184 et
seq.; animal shelters, G.S. 160A-493; animal taxes, G.S. 160A-212; cruelty to
animals, G.S. 14-360 et seq.
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 6-1.   Purpose.
Sec. 6-2.   Jurisdiction.
Sec. 6-3.   Definitions.
Secs. 6-4--6-24. Reserved.
Article II. Administration and Enforcement
Sec. 6-25.   Animal control unit.
Sec. 6-26.   Administration of unit.
Sec. 6-27.   General responsibilities of unit; personal liability of municipal
officers, agents, employees.
Sec. 6-28.   Inspection, interference or concealment.
Secs. 6-29--6-59. Reserved.
Article III. Violations
Sec. 6-60.   Bird sanctuary.
Sec. 6-61.   Abandoned animals.
Sec. 6-62.   Chickens, ducklings, rabbits banned from sale; livestock, domestic
fowl generally prohibited.
Sec. 6-63.   Exotic or wild animals.
Sec. 6-64.   Defecation on streets and private property.
Sec. 6-65.   Domestic animals at large.
Sec. 6-66.   Confinement of female dogs and cats in estrus.
Sec. 6-67.   Animal abuse prohibited.
Sec. 6-68.   Notification of injury to animal.
Sec. 6-69.   Animal bite; notification.
Sec. 6-70.   Dangerous dogs.
Sec. 6-71.   Nuisance animals.
Sec. 6-71a.   Nuisance bees.
Sec. 6-72.   Lazy Daze, Spring Daze, July 4th Celebration at Regency Park and
other designated special events; animals prohibited.
Sec. 6-73.   Rabies inoculation tags.
Secs. 6-74--6-104. Reserved.
Article IV. Reserved
Secs. 6-105--6-131. Reserved.
Article V. Enforcement, Seizure and Impoundment
Sec. 6-132.   Enforcement.
Sec. 6-133.   Citations.
Sec. 6-134.   Seizure and impoundment.
Sec. 6-135.   Periods of impoundment.
Sec. 6-136.   Redemption of impounded animal.
Sec. 6-137.   Disposition of unredeemed animals.
Sec. 6-138.   Summary destruction of animals for humane reasons; summary
destruction of animals that cannot be seized by reasonable means.
Sec. 6-139.   Appeals.
Sec. 6-140.   Exemptions.
Sec. 6-141.   Notice.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 6-1. Purpose.
   Pursuant to authority granted by the North Carolina general assembly, this
animal control chapter is enacted to regulate, restrict or prohibit, if
necessary, animals; to protect the public from unvaccinated, diseased, stray,
roaming, dangerous, wild or exotic animals; to make unlawful acts of animals
that interfere with the enjoyment of property or the peace and safety of the
community; to protect animals from abuse or conditions harmful to their well-
being; and to carry out any other lawful duties authorized by state laws and
applicable ordinances.
(Code 1982, § 4-1; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-2. Jurisdiction.
   This chapter applies within the corporate limits of the town of Cary.
(Code 1982, § 4-2; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-3. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases are
defined and shall be construed as set out below, unless it is apparent from the
context that a different meaning is intended:
   Abandon means to intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or negligently leave
an animal at a location for more than 48 consecutive hours without providing
for the animal's continued care.
   Adequate feed means the provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed 24
hours, of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age,
sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal. Such
foodstuff shall be served in a sanitized receptacle, dish, or container.
   Adequate shelter means an enclosure sufficient to provide shelter from
extremes of weather and a means to remain cool, dry and comfortable. Adequate
shelter should consist of at least three solid sides, a roof and a floor with
bedding be ventilated and have sufficient room for an animal to move about
freely and lie down comfortably.
   Adequate water means the provision of, or ready access to, a supply of
clean, fresh, potable water provided in a sanitary manner 24 hours a day.
   Animal means every vertebrate nonhuman species of animal, wild or domestic,
male or female, including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, livestock and other
mammals, domestic fowl, birds, reptiles, amphibians and fish.
   Animal control officer or officer means persons charged by the town with
enforcing all sections of this chapter and applicable state laws.
   Animal control shelter means any holding or other facility designated by the
town manager, or designee, for the detention of animals.
   Animal under restraint or under restraint means any animal confined within a
vehicle; any animal confined, by means of a secure enclosure or an electronic
enclosure, within the real property limits of its owner; or any animal secured
by leash or lead, cage, bridle or similar physical restraint sufficient to
allow the animal to be controlled. Electronic leashes or training collars do
not constitute restraint.
   At large means any animal found off of the property of its owner and not
under restraint or any animal previously determined to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous that is not under restraint when off the property of its
owner, or is not confined to a secure enclosure while on the property of its
owner. Any animal off the owner's property and on an electronic leash or
training collar shall be considered at large.
   Bees means all life-stages of the honey-producing insects of the genus Apis
mellifera that are kept, and manipulated, and managed for commercial or non-
commercial purposes.
   Bite means the act of an animal seizing flesh with its teeth or jaws, so as
to tear, pierce or injure the flesh.
   Cats means domestic felines.
   Chicken means any of the common domestic birds or fowl of the species Gallus
gallus domesticus whose eggs or flesh are used for food. Also referred to as
"poultry." The female bird is called a "hen."
   Dangerous animal means any animal (other than a dog) whose behavior creates
a reasonable risk of injury to a human or animal or damage to personal or real
property. This behavior includes, but is not limited to, an animal's biting or
attacking or attempting to bite or attack a human or other animal, provided
however, this definition shall not apply to any animal that has been subject to
provocation nor shall it apply to any animal responding to a trespass, as
trespass is defined in this chapter, upon the animal owner's premises, if the
victim is the trespasser.
   Dog means domestic canines.
   Domestic animal means those species of animals that normally and customarily
share human habitat in Wake County and are normally dependent on humans for
food and shelter in Wake County, such as, but not limited to cats, dogs,
cattle, horses, swine, domestic fowl, sheep and goats.
   Domestic fowl shall include, but not be limited to, turkeys, geese,
chickens, peacocks, guinea fowl, ratites, or ducks.
   Electronic enclosure means underground electrical wire which, when used in
connection with a pet collar or other device, keeps cats or dogs confined
within the limits of the wire on private property. A sign that complies with
the requirements of the Cary sign ordinance should be posted stating that an
electronic fence is in use at the entrance to the driveway on the property.
   Exotic or wild animal means any animal which is not usually and customarily
kept as a pet or domestic animal. A hybrid of any such animal, regardless of
genetic percentages, shall be deemed exotic or wild. Examples of exotic or wild
animals include, but are not limited to, any animal for which a federal or
state permit or license is required, and such animals as lions, tigers, wild
cats, wolves, bears, apes, monkeys and raccoons. Included in this definition
are venomous reptiles, large constricting snakes, alligators, or crocodilians.
   Ferret means a domestic mammal of the genus, species, and subspecies Musteal
putorious furo.
   Immediately means at once, very close in time.
   Impoundment means possession or seizure of an animal by the animal control
unit for placement in the animal control shelter or other appropriate facility.
   In estrus means a female animal in what is commonly called "heat".
   Inoculation means the administration of rabies vaccine by a licensed
veterinarian or by a certified rabies vaccinator.
   Kennel, dealer, or breeder means any person, partnership or corporation
engaged in buying, selling, breeding or boarding animals.
   Livestock shall include, but shall not be limited to, equine animals, bovine
animals, sheep, goats, llamas, alpacas, and swine.
   Nighttime means the time each day from sunset until sunrise.
   Owner means any person, group of persons, or any entity owning, keeping,
harboring, possessing or acting as keeper or custodian of an animal for 72
hours or more, unless the animal is boarded for a fee at a duly licensed
facility.
   Owner's property means any real property owned or leased by the owner of the
animal, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of a
condominium, cluster home, apartment complex, or townhouse development, nor
does it include the common area of a subdivision or other housing project. A
motor vehicle is not a part of the owner's property unless it is physically
located on the area described in a deed of conveyance or the area described in
a lease. A motor vehicle that is physically located in or on any common areas
as described above, or on any other public areas shall be treated as being off
of the owner's property.
   Person means and includes any individual or any legal entity, including
nonprofit corporations.
   Poisonous reptile means any reptile, such as a snake or lizard, that has the
capability of injecting humans or animals with venom which may cause death or
physical injury.
   Provocation does not include any actions on the part of an individual that
pertain to reasonable efforts of self-defense, and provocation must be clearly
established.
   Secure enclosure means an enclosure from which an animal cannot escape by
means of digging under or jumping over the enclosure, or otherwise becoming
free unless freed by the owner. Neither a motor vehicle nor an electronic
enclosure shall constitute a secure enclosure.
   Severe injury means any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requires cosmetic surgery, surgery, or
hospitalization.
   Trespass means that the victim has wrongfully invaded the property of the
owner. The reason the individual is on the property and any other relevant
circumstances shall be considered in order to determine whether or not a
trespass has occurred. A child under the age of seven shall not be deemed to be
a trespasser.
   Weekdays means Monday through Friday, inclusive, excluding local, state and
national legal holidays.
(Code 1982, § 4-3; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2008-Code-04, 10-
16-2008; Ord. No. 2010-Code-08, 10-14-2010; Ord. No. 2012-Code-04, 8-23-2012;
Ord. No. 2012-Code-06, 10-11-2012; Ord. No. 2016-Code-01, 2-25-2016)
Secs. 6-4--6-24. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
Sec. 6-25. Animal control unit.
   The police department is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter
through its animal control unit (sometimes "unit"), and the nonsworn animal
control officers employed therein, all of whom shall have all powers,
responsibilities and immunities granted by law and this chapter, and as set
forth in this chapter.
(Code 1982, § 4-4; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-26. Administration of unit.
   (a)   Chief animal control officer. The chief of police ("chief"), shall be
the chief animal control officer charged with enforcing this chapter. The chief
is authorized to initiate legal action to enforce this chapter. The chief may
delegate any of the powers granted herein to any member of the animal control
unit or the police department. Any act done by an animal control officer or a
member of the police department that is within the scope of this chapter shall
be considered the official act of the chief.
   (b)   Animal control officers. Animal control officers who have not taken or
successfully completed the law enforcement education and training course as
prescribed by the North Carolina Criminal Justice Education and Training
Standards Commission, pursuant to G.S. 17C-8 are "nonsworn animal control
officers". Nonsworn animal control officers are not authorized to carry on
their person any firearms, but are authorized to store at the animal control
unit offices, or carry in departmental vehicles, firearms approved for use when
necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter or other applicable law for
the control of wild, vicious, dangerous or diseased animals. Nonsworn animal
control officers are authorized to store drugs, chemicals and equipment at the
animal control unit offices as necessary to enforce the provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law for the control of wild, vicious, dangerous or
diseased animals. Nonsworn animal control officers shall not have the power of
arrest, but shall have all rights, powers and immunities as described in this
chapter. As nonsworn members of the unit only have that limited authority
described in this chapter, a member shall not be considered a "policeman" for
purposes of this Code relating to the policemen's and firemen's special relief
fund, and shall not be eligible for benefits thereunder.
   (c)   Badges. Each member of the unit, while in the performance of duties,
shall wear a badge of a size and design to be determined by the chief.
(Code 1982, § 4-5; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-27. General responsibilities of unit; personal liability of municipal
officers, agents, employees.
   (a)   Duties of unit. The animal control unit is charged with the following:
   (1)   Enforcing and carrying out within the town the provisions of this
chapter, any other ordinance assigning animal control duties, and all relevant
state laws, and cooperating with the Wake County health department and other
law enforcement agencies in so doing;
   (2)   Canvassing the town, including dwellings, businesses and institutions
in the town as necessary and practical, for the purpose of ascertaining that
all dogs and cats in the town are duly licensed and adequately inoculated
against rabies, and for the purpose of ascertaining compliance with this
chapter and state statutes. In addition, employees may scan the animal and
utilize any information that may be available through a microchip to locate the
owner of the animal, if possible;
   (3)   Investigating complaints with regard to animals or bees covered by
this chapter and protecting animals from cruelty or abuse;
   (4)   [Reserved];
   (5)   Seizing, relocating and/or impounding, when necessary, any animals or
bees in the town involved in a violation of this chapter or any other ordinance
or state law;
   (6)   Going upon private property, and seizing animals or bees on public or
private property pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, state statute or
with the consent of an owner or occupant of the property; as evidence; by
criminal or administrative warrant; or by order of a court of competent
jurisdiction of this state;
   (7)   Keeping, or causing to be kept, accurate records of seizures,
relocations, impoundments, dangerous animals, disposition of animals or bees
coming into the custody of the animal control unit, bite cases, violations,
complaints, investigations and monies collected;
   (8)   Issuing citations and orders and assessing civil penalties for
violations of this chapter and when authorized by law.
   (b)   Limited liability. Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or
local law or ordinance, no officer, agent or employee of the town charged with
the duty of enforcing the provisions of this chapter or other applicable law
shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of such
duties.
(Code 1982, § 4-6; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2010-Code-08, 10-
14-2010; Ord. No. 2012-Code-06, 10-11-2012; Ord. No. 2019-Code-02, 9-12-2019)
Sec. 6-28. Inspection, interference or concealment.
   (a)   Inspections. Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this chapter, or other applicable law, or whenever an
animal control officer has reasonable cause to believe that there exists in any
building or upon any premises any violation of this chapter or other applicable
law, the animal control officer is empowered to enter and inspect such property
at any reasonable time and perform any duty imposed upon them by this chapter
or other applicable law, but only if the consent of the occupant or owner of
the property is freely given or an administrative search warrant or criminal
search warrant is obtained as follows:
   (1)   If such property is occupied, the animal control officer shall first
present credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining the reasons
therefor; or
   (2)   If such property is unoccupied, the animal control officer shall first
make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having control of
the property, present proper credentials and request entry, explaining the
reasons therefor; and
   (3)   If entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or other
person having control or charge of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, an animal control officer may obtain an appropriate warrant to
conduct a search, or inspection of the property or seizure on the property.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal control officer
shall have the authority to enter upon any land to enforce the provisions of
this chapter, including the seizure of animals running at large, or other
applicable law if a violation of such law is being committed in the presence of
the officer and requires immediate action on the part of the officer to protect
the health or safety of the animal or the public. In the case of animals at
large, so long as the animal is within sight of the officer, this section shall
not be interpreted to require that a warrant be obtained before seizing the
animal.
   (b)   Interference. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder, molest, resist or obstruct employees of the animal control unit while
they are carrying out any duty created under this chapter or other applicable
law.
   (c)   Concealment of animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal,
for the purpose of evading the licensing requirement, permit requirement,
rabies inoculation requirement or other requirements of this chapter or any
applicable law, any unlicensed, uninoculated, nonpermitted or other unlawful
animal from any employee of the animal control unit.
   (d)   Concealment of license, etc. It shall be unlawful for any person to
refuse to show proof of a license, permit or a rabies inoculation to any
employee of the animal control unit upon request.
   (e)   Unauthorized release. It is unlawful for any person to seek to
release, attempt to release, or to release any animal in the custody of the
animal control unit, except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter.
An animal captured in a trap set by the animal control unit shall be deemed to
be in the custody of animal control.
(Code 1982, § 4-7; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Secs. 6-29--6-59. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. VIOLATIONS
Sec. 6-60. Bird sanctuary.
   (a)   Town designated as sanctuary. The area within the corporate limits of
the town and all land owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits
is hereby designated as a bird sanctuary, as authorized by G.S. 160A-188.
   (b)   Unlawful to trap, etc. It shall be unlawful intentionally to trap,
hunt, shoot, or otherwise kill, within the sanctuary hereby established, any
native wild bird, except those birds classes as a pest under article 22A of
chapter 113 of the General Statutes (G.S. 113-300.1 et seq.) and the Structural
Pest Control Act of North Carolina of 1955 (G.S. 106-65.22 et seq.) or the
North Carolina Pesticide Law of 1971 (G.S. 143-434 et seq.), pursuant to an
appropriate permit issued by the North Carolina wildlife commission.
(Code 1982, § 4-8; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2010-Code-02, 3-
10-2010)
Sec. 6-61. Abandoned animals.
   (a)   Unlawful to abandon. It shall be unlawful for any person owning,
possessing or harboring an animal to abandon that animal.
   (b)   Seizure. If the animal control unit finds that an animal has been
abandoned, the animal may be impounded. If the animal has been abandoned in a
house or within a fenced area, the unit must make a reasonable effort to locate
the owner or manager of the property. If the property owner or manager is not
the animal owner, then the unit shall secure permission to remove the animal
from the person who occupies the property. If the person who occupies the
property is the animal owner and cannot be located or refuses to give
permission to remove the animal, the division shall secure an appropriate
warrant to seize the animal.
   (c)   Impoundment. An animal seized pursuant to this section shall be
impounded as provided in section
6-134. If the owner contacts the unit to reclaim the animal, an explanation for
the animal's abandonment must be provided to the satisfaction of the chief
before the animal is returned to the owner. If the animal is unclaimed by its
owner after being held for the minimum period specified in section
6-135, the animal shall be disposed of as provided in section
6-137.
(Code 1982, § 4-9; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
   State law reference—Abandoned animals, G.S. 14-361.1.
Sec. 6-62. Chickens, ducklings, rabbits banned from sale; livestock, domestic
fowl generally prohibited.
   (a)   Chickens, ducklings, rabbits banned from sale. It shall be unlawful
for any person to sell or offer for sale, or permit to be sold or offered for
sale, within the corporate limits of the town, baby chickens, baby ducklings,
or baby rabbits less than six weeks of age; provided, this section shall not
apply to hatcheries raising chickens or ducks expressly for the broiler market
or for sale to farms.
   (b)   Livestock and domestic fowl prohibited. Livestock and domestic fowl of
all descriptions are prohibited within the corporate limits of the town except:
as expressly permitted as an accessory use in the Land Development Ordinance,
Appendix A of the Town of Cary Code of Ordinances.
   (c)   On-site slaughter of chickens prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to slaughter chickens on any residential property in the town.
(Code 1982, § 4-10; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2012-Code-04, 8-
23-2012)
   State law reference—Disposing of living baby chicks or other fowl, or
rabbits under eight weeks of age as pets or novelties, G.S. 14-363.1.
Sec. 6-63. Exotic or wild animals.
   (a)   Notification.
    (1)   For the purpose of this section "notify" means calling the animal
control unit during normal business hours, or the police department during non-
business hours, and speaking with a staff member.
    (2)   At least 24 hours prior to importing, locating or placing an exotic
or wild animal within the corporate limits of the town, the owner of the animal
shall notify the animal control unit or the police department. At the time of
notification, the owner shall also provide copies of any required federal or
state permits for the exotic or wild animal.
   (3)   Immediately (and in no event beyond one hour) following any of the
following incidents involving an exotic or wild animal, the owner of the animal
shall notify the animal control unit (or the police department) about the
incident:
      a.   An assault, attack or biting upon any human being committed by an
exotic or wild animal;
      b.   An attack or biting upon any domesticated animal or pet by an exotic
or wild animal if the injured domesticated animal or pet is not also the
property of the owner of the exotic or wild animal;
      c.   The destruction of, or damage to, property of any other person
committed by an exotic or wild animal;
      d.   The roaming or escape of an exotic or wild animal that is required
to be restrained or confined.
   (b)   Permit required to own; confinement and control. It shall be unlawful
for any owner of any exotic or wild animal to keep or maintain any such animal
within the town unless any required federal and/or state permits have been
obtained and are currently valid for the time period and circumstances under
which the exotic or wild animal will be maintained within the town, and the
animal is:
   (1)   Confined within a humane and secure enclosure, as approved by the
animal control officer, in accordance with humane practices; or
   (2)   Securely muzzled, if required, and under restraint by a competent
person who, by means of a leash, chain, rope or other device suitable to
adequately restrain the particular exotic or wild animal, has such animal
firmly under control at all times.
   (c)   Confiscation. Any exotic or wild animal which is not properly
restrained or secured as required by this section, or which has injured or
endangered any person or property, or which does not have currently valid
federal or state permits, may be confiscated by any animal control officer or
police officer and kept and harbored at the expense of the owner determined to
be in violation of this section.
   (d)   Slaying of animal in certain circumstances. Any exotic or wild animal
which has escaped, is running at large, or is otherwise deemed to be a
continuing threat to the public safety may be slain by any police officer or
animal control officer if attempts to capture the animal are unsuccessful or if
immediate capture is not practical or reasonably possible.
   (e)   Penalty. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the
contrary, and in addition to confiscation of the animal as set forth above,
violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. A police officer or
animal control officer may initiate the criminal process.
(Code 1982, § 4-11; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2008-Code-04, 10-
16-2008)
Sec. 6-64. Defecation on streets and private property.
   (a)   Public property. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to
fail or refuse to remove feces deposited by the animal on any street, sidewalk,
park or other publicly-owned area.
   (b)   Private property. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to
fail or refuse to remove feces deposited by the animal on any private property.
(Code 1982, § 4-12; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-65. Domestic animals at large.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any domestic animal to allow such animal to
be at large in the town or on any town property except that dogs may be
unleashed in approved, designated areas inside Town of Cary Dog Parks.
(Code 1982, § 4-14; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 05-018, 12-15-
2005; Ord. No. 2012-Code-04, 8-23-2012)
Sec. 6-66. Confinement of female dogs and cats in estrus.
   Every female dog and cat, while in estrus, shall be confined in a building
or secure enclosure in such manner that she will not be in contact with another
dog or cat, as the case may be, nor create a nuisance by attracting other
animals; provided, this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed area on the premises of the
owner of an animal being bred.
(Code 1982, § 4-15; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-67. Animal abuse prohibited.
   (a)   Prohibited acts. All animals shall be kept and treated under sanitary
and humane conditions and it shall be unlawful for any person to engage in one
or more of the following acts:
   (1)   Failing to provide adequate feed, water and shelter or failing to
maintain the animal in a clean and healthy environment. All animals, unless
otherwise indicated in this chapter, shall be given adequate feed, adequate
water and adequate shelter. Outdoor enclosures should be no smaller than 100
square feet in area for each dog weighing less than 20 pounds. Each dog
weighing 20 pounds or more should have an outdoor enclosure no smaller than 200
square feet in area. Examples of shelter that is not adequate include, but are
not limited to the following:
      a.   Underneath houses, outdoor steps, decks or stoops, or underneath
motor vehicles;
      b.   Inside metal barrels or cardboard boxes;
      c.   Shelters prone to flood;
      d.   Shelters surrounded by debris, obstructions or impediments that may
endanger an animal;
      e.   Confinement of the animal in storage rooms, sheds or other buildings
without windows and proper ventilation.
   (2)   Failing to keep an animal under sanitary and humane conditions which
are not detrimental to the animal's health and general welfare and which
maintain a condition of good order and cleanliness and reduce the possibility
of transmission of disease.
   (3)   Failing or refusing to provide adequate medical attention for any
sick, diseased or injured animal.
   (4)   Engaging in animal cruelty; animal cruelty means every act, omission,
or act of neglect whereby unjustifiable pain, suffering or death is caused or
permitted, or attempted to be caused or permitted against animals, and includes
acts or attempted acts of beating, torturing, injuring, tormenting, mutilating,
teasing, molesting, baiting, or harassing animals, the trapping of animals
unlawfully, and overworking or overdriving animals. This shall not include the
lawful taking of animals under the jurisdiction and regulation of the wildlife
resources commission, lawful activities of organizations or agencies conducting
or sponsoring biomedical research or training, lawful activities for sport, the
production of livestock or poultry, or the lawful destruction of any animal.
   (5)   Promoting, staging, holding, managing, conducting, carrying on or
attending any game, exhibition, contest, fight or combat between one or more
animals or between animals and humans, or intentionally allowing animals to
engage in a fight.
   (6)   Permitting any exhibit, function or activity where animals are being
cruelly treated or animals run the risk of causing injury to the public or
themselves. Animal control shall have the authority to inspect and to close
down public exhibits of animals including those which are part of fairs,
carnivals, festivals, fund raising events, petting zoos and any other activity
or function carried out in the town if it is determined that animals are being
cruelly treated or run the risk of causing injury to the public or themselves.
   (7)   Poisoning, or exposing a domestic animal to any known poisonous
substance or mixing a poisonous substance with food, so that it will likely be
eaten by an animal. This does not include attempts or acts of persons to
lawfully rid their own property of mice or rats or other vermin, nor does it
include other acts permitted by the North Carolina wildlife department.
   (8)   Allowing a collar, rope or chain to become embedded in or cause injury
to an animal's neck, or allowing a choke or pinch collar to be used as a
primary collar on an unsupervised animal.
      b.   Allowing an animal to be chained or tethered such that the animal is
not confined to the owner's property or such that the chain or tether can
become entangled and prevent the animal from moving about freely, lying down
comfortably or having access to adequate food, water and shelter.
   (9)   Carrying or causing to be carried in or upon the open area of a truck
or other motor vehicle any animal that is not secured, in an animal carrier or
by a harness or other device, such that the animal cannot fall, jump, or be
thrown from the vehicle.
   (10)   Unless otherwise permitted by law, giving away or offering any animal
as a prize, premium or advertising device for or as an inducement to enter any
contest, game or other competition involving skill or chance.
   (11)   Placing or confining an animal or allowing an animal to be placed or
confined in a motor vehicle under such conditions or for such a period of time
as to endanger the health or well-being of such animal due to temperature, lack
of food or drink, or such other conditions as may reasonably be expected to
cause suffering, disability or death. If an animal is discovered in a motor
vehicle under such conditions, the procedures specified in
6-134(d) should be followed.
   (12)   Chaining or tethering (collectively, "tethering") an animal to a
stationary object without a responsible person remaining outside with the
animal while it is tethered. When tethering is allowed, the following are also
prohibited:
      a.   Using a length or weight of a chain or tether that is not
appropriate for the size, weight and age of the animal. A chain or tether
should not be less than ten feet long. Using a chain or tether that exceeds ten
percent of the animal's body weight shall be deemed not appropriate and
potentially harmful.
   (b)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the
humane transportation of horses, cattle, sheep, poultry or other livestock in
trailers or other vehicles designed, constructed, and adequate for the size and
number of animals being transported. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to prohibit the animal control unit or veterinarians from euthanizing
dangerous, unwanted, injured or diseased animals in a humane manner; nor to
prohibit slaughterhouses or medical facilities from the proper, humane and
lawful carrying out of their activities or duties. Nothing in this section
shall be construed to regulate the standards of care for farm animals, as
defined in G.S. 160A-203.1.
   (c)   Inspections. Animal control officers shall have the authority to
conduct inspections of pet shops, kennels, dealers, or breeders, to the extent
not preempted by state law, in order to determine if there is any abuse of
animals. Pet shops, kennels, dealers, and breeders are subject to the state
laws concerning rabies control abuse of animals shall include any act described
in this section or any other act which is detrimental to the well-being of the
animal. It shall be unlawful for any owner or employee of any pet shop or
kennel or any dealers or breeders to violate this section.
(Code 1982, § 4-16; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2012-Code-02, 4-
19-2012; Ord. No. 2016-Code-01, 2-25-2016)
   State law reference—Cruelty to animals, G.S. 14-360.
Sec. 6-68. Notification of injury to animal.
   All persons who injure or kill a domestic animal by running over, into or
otherwise coming into contact with such animal with an automobile, motorcycle,
bicycle or other vehicle shall notify the owner of theanimal immediately. If
the owner is unknown or cannot be located, the person who injured or killed the
animal shall immediately notify animal control or the police department by
giving their name and address, a description of the animal and the location of
the incident.
(Code 1982, § 4-17; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-69. Animal bite; notification.
   (a)   Bites unlawful. It shall be unlawful for an animal to bite a human
being who does not ordinarily reside on the premises of the animal unless the
animal has been subject to provocation, or unless the victim has been
trespassing.
   (b)   Reporting bite. It shall be unlawful for a person to fail to report to
animal control as soon as possible that an animal has bitten a person. It shall
be unlawful for any person to fail to inform the animal control unit the
location to which an animal that has bitten a human being has been taken if the
owner has given the animal away, or caused in any way the animal to be taken
from the owner's premises.
   (c)   Confinement. Any dog or cat that bites a person or that shows symptoms
of rabies shall be confined immediately and quarantined, at the direction of
the animal control unit, for a period of ten days, and shall not be released
from such quarantine except by written permission from the animal control unit.
Dogs and cats quarantined under this section shall be confined in a veterinary
hospital, licensed boarding kennel or county animal shelter, at the expense of
the owner, provided, however, that if an animal control officer determines that
the owner of an animal which must be quarantined has adequate confinement
facilities upon his own premises, the animal control officer may authorize the
animal to be confined on such premises. In order to qualify for this "own
premises" quarantine, the animal must be constantly confined in a secure
enclosure and the animal must be currently vaccinated against rabies. If the
animal is confined on the owner's premises, the animal control officer shall
visit the premises for inspection purposes at times determined by the officer,
but no less than once in the middle of the confinement and once at the end of
the confinement.
   (d)   Failure to confine. If the owner fails or refuses to confine the
animal as required by this section, the chief may order the seizure of the
animal and its confinement for ten days at the expense of the owner. If the
animal is unclaimed after the ten-day confinement, the chief may dispose of the
animal.
   (e)   Release from quarantine. If rabies does not develop within ten days
after the commencement of quarantine under this section, the animal may be
released from quarantine, with the written permission of animal control.
   (f)   Strays. In the case of stray dogs or cats whose ownership is not
known, the dog or cat may be euthanized and the head examined for rabies or
kept for the supervised quarantine period required by this section at the
animal control shelter.
(Code 1982, § 4-18; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2019-Code-02, 9-
12-2019)
   State law reference(s)--Animal bites, G.S. 130A-196 et seq.
Sec. 6-70. Dangerous dogs.
   (a)   "Dangerous dog" means
      (1)   a dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dogfighting;
      (2)   a dog trained for dogfighting;
      (3)   a dog that has killed a person;
      (4)   a dog that has inflicted a severe injury on a person;
      (5)   a dog that has killed a domestic animal or inflicted a severe
injury on a domestic animal, when the dog was not on the owner's real property;
or
      (6)   a dog that has approached a person when not on the owner's property
in a vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
      This definition of "dangerous dog" shall not apply to a dog being used by
a law enforcement officer to carry out the law enforcement officer's official
duties; a dog being used in a lawful hunt; a dog where the injury or damage
inflicted by the dog was sustained by a domestic animal while the dog was
working as a hunting dog, herding dog, or predator control dog on the property
of, or under the control of, its owner or keeper, and the damage or injury was
to a species or type of domestic animal appropriate to the work of the dog; or
a dog where the injury inflicted by the dog was sustained by a person who, at
the time of the injury, was committing a willful trespass or other tort, was
tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, had tormented, abused, or assaulted
the dog, or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (b)   Determination of dangerous dog; appeal. The chief shall determine
whether a dog is a dangerous dog. If the chief determines that a dog is a
dangerous dog, the chief shall notify the owner in writing, giving the reasons
for the determination. The owner may appeal the determination by filing written
objections with the Town Manager's office, with a copy to the chief, within
five business days after receipt of the notification. The appeal shall be heard
by a Board appointed by the Town Manager, Deputy Town Manager, or designee,
consisting of two town employees who are not employees of the Police
Department. The Board shall schedule a hearing within ten business days of the
filing of the written objections. The Board shall render a decision within
three business days of the hearing. The decision shall be delivered by personal
delivery, electronic mail, or first class mail mailed to the person requesting
the appeal, with a copy to the chief. Once the time for filing an appeal has
expired, or after any appeal has been finally adjudicated in favor of the
chief's determination, the dog shall be deemed a dangerous dog for purposes of
this ordinance.
   (c)   Confinement and restraint. The owner of a dangerous dog shall comply
with the following provisions:
   (1)   When the dog is on the property of the owner, the dog shall be
      a.   confined indoors or outdoors in a securely enclosed and locked pen
or in another structure designed to restrain the dog. An electronic enclosure
is not sufficient to comply with this requirement; or
      b.   under restraint by a competent person who by means of a leash, chain
or rope has the dog firmly under control at all times. Voice command is not
recognized as adequate restraint.
      In addition, the owner must comply with any specific written instructions
of the chief as well as Section
6-67 of this ordinance.
   (2)   When the dog is off the property of the owner it must be muzzled and
under restraint by a competent person who by means of a leash, chain or rope
has the dog firmly under control at all times. Voice command is not recognized
as adequate restraint.
   (3)   The owner shall notify the animal control unit immediately if the dog
escapes or is otherwise freed from the secure enclosure or other restraint.
   (d)   Transfer of ownership. The owner of a dangerous dog shall comply with
the requirements of G.S. 67-4.2 concerning transfer of ownership.
   (e)   Sanctions, fines, penalties, and remedies. In addition to criminal
penalties provided by state law and civil penalties set forth in section
6-132(b)(1), any person who violates this section shall be subject to the
following sanctions and remedies:
   (1)   If a dangerous dog is found at large it shall be seized and impounded.
Animal control is authorized to go upon private property to seize the dangerous
dog. If attempts to seize the dangerous dog are unsuccessful, animal control
may tranquilize or humanely destroy the animal, without prior notice to the
owner, upon authorization of the chief. The animal control officer shall
thereafter make a good faith attempt to notify the owner of the incident.
   (2)   If the dangerous dog has caused injury to a person or another animal
while at large and not confined within a secure enclosure, the chief, in
addition to seizing the dog, may issue to the owner a notice of intent to
destroy the dog. The owner may appeal this intended action by filing a written
request for appeal with the town manager as specified in section
6-139.
   (3)   If an inspection of the premises where a dangerous dog is confined
reveals that the owner has not complied with the requirements for confining a
dangerous dog, animal control shall issue a $100.00 civil penalty in accordance
with section
6-132(b)(1) and may impound the dog at the animal shelter.
   (4)   If the dangerous dog is not redeemed within five business days, or if
the owner does not request an appeal within the time limit provided, the dog
shall be deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of in accordance with this
chapter.
   (5)   Nothing in this article shall prevent a private citizen from bringing
an action against the owner of a dog, which has caused injury to the private
citizen or his property, for damages or any other loss resulting from the dog
being dangerous or potentially dangerous as defined by state law.
(Code 1982, § 4-19; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2016-Code-01, 2-
25-2016)
   State law reference—Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Sec. 6-71. Nuisance animals.
   (a)   Prohibited generally; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person
to own, keep, possess, harbor or maintain an animal in such a manner as to
unreasonably annoy humans, endanger the life or health of persons or other
animals, or substantially interfere with the rights of citizens (other than
their owners) to enjoyment of life or property, or otherwise constitute a
public nuisance. By way of example and not of limitation, the following
activities are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are, therefore,
unlawful:
   (1)   Getting into or turning over waste or garbage containers.
   (2)   Walking on or sleeping on automobiles of another.
   (3)   Damaging the real or personal property of anyone other than its owner.
   (4)   Repeatedly being or running at large.
   (5)   Being maintained in an unsanitary condition so as to be noxious or
offensive to sight or smell.
   (6)   Not being confined to a building or secure enclosure while in estrus.
   (7)   Being vicious or chasing, snapping at, attacking, or otherwise
molesting others including, pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicle passengers,
or domestic animals.
   (8)   Allowing or permitting an animal or animals to make frequent or long
continued sounds, including barking, whining, screeching, calling, howling or
yowling in an excessive, continuous, habitual or untimely fashion, or to make
other noise in such a manner and at such intervals so as to result in a serious
annoyance or interference with the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring
premises ("annoying sound"). Any such sound made by cats or dogs which is made
for more than fifteen (15) minutes during any thirty (30) minute period shall
be deemed to be an annoying sound. The normal clucking of chickens, kept in
accordance with provisions of the Land Development Ordinance, shall not
constitute an annoying sound. Any person owning, using or possessing premises
affected by an annoying sound ("person annoyed by sounds") shall follow the
procedures specified in subsection f. below.
   (9)   Being housed or restrained less than five feet from a public street,
road or sidewalk such that the animal, without provocation, molests, attacks or
otherwise interferes with the freedom of movement of persons in a public right
of way, or the location of the animal poses a threat to the general safety,
health and welfare of the general public.
   (10)   By virtue of number or type, being offensive or dangerous to the
public health, safety, or welfare.
   (11)   Being diseased or dangerous to the health of the public.
   (12)   Being kept in such a manner as to attract excessive insects, pests,
rodents, raccoons, snakes, or other wild animals.
   (b)   Complaint and notice. Except as to (a)(8) above, upon their own
initiative or upon receipt of a detailed written and signed complaint being
made to the animal control unit by any of the town residents that any person is
maintaining a nuisance animal, the animal control unit may cause the owner of
the animal or animals in question to be notified that a complaint has been
received and may cause the situation complained of to be investigated and a
report and findings thereon to be reduced to writing by the investigating
animal control officer.
   (c)   Abatement. If the written findings of the investigating animal control
officer indicate that the complaint is justified, then the chief or designee
shall cause the owner or keeper of the animal or animals in question to be so
notified in writing, served by personal delivery or by certified mail, return
receipt requested, and ordered to abate such nuisance within a reasonable time
not to exceed seven days after notification, and may issue a citation for the
violation. The chief may specify the particular abatement measures that must be
taken, which measures may include, but are not limited to, a requirement that
the animal be penned, or that a secure enclosure be erected or improved. In the
event the owner of the animal is unknown and cannot be ascertained, the notice
and order, along with a general description of the animal, shall be published
in a local newspaper.
   (d)   Impoundment upon failure to abate. If any person actually or
constructively receiving notice in the manner herein described shall fail or
refuse to abate the nuisance upon order of the chief within the specified time,
the chief may cause the animal or animals in question to be seized and
impounded in accordance with the provisions of section
6-134.
   (e)   Redemption; destruction. If the owner shall so request in writing
within five days of the impoundment, an animal that has been impounded may be
redeemed upon the owner's execution of a written agreement to comply with the
abatement order and payment of all sums due hereunder. If no such written
request is made, or if such a request is made, but a written agreement to
comply with the abatement order is not delivered to the chief within five days
of the impoundment, then the animal(s) shall be deemed abandoned and disposed
of in accordance with the provisions of section
6-137.
   (f)   Annoying sounds. A person annoyed by sounds shall follow the
procedures specified below.
   (i)   Upon receipt of a detailed written and signed complaint by a person
annoyed by sounds, the animal control unit shall provide written notice to the
owner or possessor of the premises on which the animal(s) making annoying
sounds is maintained ("animal owner") that a complaint has been received about
the animal's (animals’) annoying sounds. The notice shall detail the complaint
and may make suggestions on ways to correct the situation.
   (ii)   Upon receipt of such notice of complaint, the animal owner shall cure
the violation. If the violation is not cured, or if a second complaint is made
to the animal control unit about the same animal(s) within any six (6) month
period, the animal control unit shall cause the animal owner to be served by an
order to abate the annoying sounds within a reasonable period of time, not to
exceed seven (7) days ("Abatement Order"). Such notice shall be served by
personal delivery or by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (iii)   If the original complainant, or any other affected person notifies
the animal control unit that the animal owner has failed or refuses to abate
the annoying sounds as provided in the Abatement Order, the animal control unit
shall investigate and may issue a civil citation for the violation in the
amount of two hundred dollars ($200.00). Such citation shall be collected in
the manner set forth in section
6-132.
   (iv)   If the annoying sounds continue after issuance of the citation, the
complainant should pursue the action by going to the magistrate and filing a
summons against the animal owner. Nothing in this section shall prevent a
private citizen from bringing an action at any time against an animal owner.
(Code 1982, § 4-21; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 06-020, 12-14-
2006; Ord. No. 2012-Code-04, 8-23-2012)
Sec. 6-71a. Nuisance bees.
   (a)   Prohibited generally; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person
to own, keep, possess, harbor or maintain bees or beehives in such a manner as
to unreasonably annoy humans, endanger the life or health of persons or
animals, or substantially interfere with the rights of citizens (other than
their owners) to enjoyment of life or property, or otherwise constitute a
public nuisance. By way of example and not of limitation, the following
activities are hereby declared to be a public nuisance and are, therefore,
unlawful:
   (1)   Multiple bees stinging, attacking, or otherwise molesting others
including, pedestrians, bicyclists, motor vehicle passengers, or domestic
animals;
   (2)   Hive placement and related bee movement such that the bees, without
provocation, interfere with the freedom of movement of persons in a public
right of way, or the location of the bees poses a threat to the general safety,
health and welfare of the general public; or
   (3)   The keeping of overcrowded, diseased or abandoned hives.
   (b)   Complaint and notice. Upon their own initiative or upon receipt of a
detailed written and signed complaint being made to the animal control unit by
any of the town residents that any person is maintaining nuisance bees, the
animal control unit may cause the owner of the bees in question to be notified
that a complaint has been received, or take immediate action to abate the
nuisance if deemed necessary.
   (c)   Abatement. If investigation of the investigating animal control
officer indicates that the complaint is justified, but that action by town
staff to immediately abate the nuisance is not deemed necessary, then the chief
or designee shall cause the owner or keeper of the bees in question to be so
notified and ordered to abate such nuisance and may issue a citation for the
violation. However, if immediate abatement of the nuisance is deemed necessary,
then the investigating animal control officer may cause the bees and/or hive in
question to be seized and relocated, or if the nuisance bees and/or hive cannot
be reasonably seized and relocated, the animal control officer may cause them
to be destroyed in the field. In such instances, the owner of the bees shall be
responsible for any costs incurred to effectuate the seizure, relocation, or
destruction of the bees and/or hive.
   (d)   Seizure and relocation upon failure to abate. If any person actually
or constructively receiving notice in the manner herein described shall fail or
refuse to abate the nuisance upon order of the chief within the specified time,
the chief may cause the domesticated bees and/or hive in question to be seized
and relocated. In such instances, the owner of the bees shall be responsible
for any costs incurred to effectuate the seizure and relocation of the bees
and/or hive.
   (e)   Notice to owner. Upon seizing bees and/or their hive, the animal
control officer shall cause a prompt and reasonable effort to be made to locate
and notify the owner of the bees, if the owner is known or reasonably
ascertainable. A notice of seizure shall be left with the owner or affixed to
the premises of the owner, if the owner is known or reasonably ascertainable.
   (f)   Redemption; destruction. If the owner shall so request in writing
within five days of the seizure of the bees and/or hive, the bees and/or hive
that have been seized and relocated may be redeemed upon the owner's execution
of a written agreement to comply with the abatement order and payment of all
sums due hereunder. If no such written request is made, or if such a request is
made, but a written agreement to comply with the abatement order is not
delivered to the chief within five days of the seizure, then the bees and hive
shall be deemed abandoned and shall be destroyed in a humane manner, or become
the property of a member of a legitimate beekeeping association provided that
bees are maintained in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
provisions related to beekeeping found in the Town of Cary Land Development
Ordinance.
   (g)   Revocation of Accessory Use Permit. In instances where the owner fails
or refuses to abate the nuisance within the specified time, and has not
appealed pursuant to section
6-139, the Planning Director may revoke the owner's Accessory Use Permit, and
the owner shall be unable to reapply for another Accessory Use Permit for
beekeeping for a period of twelve (12) months.
(Ord. No. 2012-Code-06, 10-11-2012)
Sec. 6-72. Lazy Daze, Spring Daze, July 4th Celebration at Regency Park and
other designated special events; animals prohibited.
   (a)   Applicability. Lazy Daze Arts and Crafts Festival, Spring Daze and
July 4th Celebration at Regency Park are town-sponsored festivals attracting
extraordinarily large numbers of spectators confined to a limited area for
festivals that are of greater duration than other community events. The
presence of animals at these festivals poses some concern for both spectators
and the animals. In addition to those festivals listed, the presence of animals
at other events may pose similar concerns, and sponsors of other special events
may request the town manager or his authorized designee in writing to apply the
provisions of this section to such special events. The town manager, or his
designee, is authorized to approve such requests if he or she determines that
the number of spectators, the size of the area on which the special event takes
place, or the threat to the public safety or health would warrant the
application of this section.
   (b)   Unlawful to have animal at Lazy Daze, Spring Daze and July 4th
Celebration at Regency Park. It shall be unlawful for any person owning or
having possession, charge, custody, or control of any animal as defined in
section
6-3, to take that animal, whether or not under restraint, into, or allow the
animal to enter, the boundaries of Lazy Daze, Spring Daze or the July 4th
Celebration at Regency Park or any other special event to which these
provisions have been made to apply. The boundaries and the interior of Lazy
Daze, Spring Daze and July 4th Celebration at Regency Park and any other
special event to which these provisions apply, shall consist of any property
that is part of the festival or other special event and shall include any
public street, sidewalk, or other publicly owned area that is within or
constitutes the boundary of the event.
   (c)   Failure to remove animal. It shall be unlawful for any person with an
animal on or within the boundaries of Lazy Daze, Spring Daze and July 4th
Celebration at Regency Park or any special event to which these provisions have
been made to apply to fail to obey the command of a law enforcement officer or
animal control officer to remove such animal from on or within the boundary of
Lazy Daze, Spring Daze and July 4th Celebration at Regency Park or the special
event.
   (d)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to those animals that are
part of an authorized exhibit. Town police officers and animal control officers
shall have the authority to specify the conditions for having such animals for
the protection of the public and for the well-being of the animals. This
section shall not apply to guide dogs or hearing-aid dogs in the company of
blind or deaf persons.
(Code 1982, § 4-21; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-73. Rabies inoculation tags.
   Dogs shall wear rabies vaccination tags at all times, as required by G.S.
130A-190(a). Cats and ferrets are not required to wear the rabies inoculation
tags, but the owner of a cat or ferret shall maintain the tag or the rabies
vaccination certificate as written evidence to prove the cat or ferret has a
current rabies inoculation and shall produce such tag or certificate as
requested by animal control and as otherwise required by law.
(Code 1982, § 4-22; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2010-Code-08, 10-
14-2010)
   State law reference—Authority to exempt cats from wearing tag, G.S. 130A-
190.
Secs. 6-74--6-104. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. RESERVED
Secs. 6-105--6-131. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. ENFORCEMENT, SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT
Sec. 6-132. Enforcement.
   (a)   Purpose. The town council's determination is that it is important to
enforce vigorously and effectively this chapter's provisions. The council makes
the following findings to accomplish the objective of vigorous and effective
enforcement of these provisions that:
   (1)   A current rabies inoculation tag is vital for public health, for the
ability of the animal control unit to carry out its functions, for the
protection of the owner and for the protection of the animal and, therefore,
must be complied with. The owner of an animal, particularly a dog, has a very
serious obligation of ownership and a duty to the citizens of Cary to comply
with town rabies inoculation requirements.
   (2)   The presence of a domestic animal at large often creates substantial
anxieties and concerns for people for safety and free movement; and, therefore,
the owner has an obligation to the citizens of Cary to see that their domestic
animals do not go at large.
   (3)   The possibility of an animal bite is a serious anxiety for persons,
neighborhoods and areas in Cary; and, therefore, owners have an obligation to
prevent the creation of that apprehension and concern.
   (4)   An animal owner has a particular responsibility for being conscious of
and sensitive to any possible dangers for children under the age of seven years
who, at that age, are unable to fully appreciate the possible danger presented
by an animal and an animal's reaction to a child under the age of seven.
   (5)   The animal control unit must have ample authority to impose preventive
measures, seize and impound animals, and, if necessary, terminate ownership
rights.
   (6)   Escalating fees and other sanctions are measures that have been
adopted to protect the citizens of Cary and to declare that the ownership of
animals entails publicly related responsibilities.
   (b)   Methods of town. When there is a violation of this chapter, the chief
may take one or more of the following courses of actions set forth in this
section. The chief may cause a complaint to be filed or any action to be
brought on behalf of the town and may collect any amount for outstanding costs,
fees or penalties assessed or imposed pursuant to this chapter. Any such action
shall be cumulative and shall not be deemed as a bar to or a waiver of the
right to institute any other civil or criminal proceeding for a violation of
this chapter.
   (1)   Civil penalties.
      a.   Violations of section
6-73 (failure to have rabies tag): Penalty: $50.00 for failure to have current
inoculation.
      b.   Violation of section
6-65 (domestic animals at large) or
6-67(a)(12). The issuance of a citation for a violation of Code section
6-65 (domestic animals at large) or
6-67(a)(12), like other ordinances concerning animals, is directed toward and
against the owner of the animal. The purpose of the issuance of a citation is
to affect the conduct of the owner of an animal by seeking to have an owner
responsibly maintain restraint and confinement of the animal. To encourage
responsible conduct, an owner shall be subject to escalating penalties for each
violation of this section by the owner, whether the animal is the same animal,
a different animal or various animals belonging to the owner. Each violation of
Code section
6-65 or
6-67(a)(12) shall subject the owner to an increased citation penalty:
 
Offense Penalty
1st     $ 20.00 fine
2nd     $ 50.00 fine
3rd     $ 75.00 fine
4th     $ 100.00 fine
5th     $ 250.00 fine and seizure of the animal
 
      c.   Violation of section
6-69 (animal bite ) or
6-70 (dangerous dog). Penalty: $100.00.
      d.   Other violations: All other violations shall be subject to a penalty
of $20.00 for the first violation and $50.00 for each subsequent violation.
   (2)   Criminal misdemeanor. The violator may be charged with a misdemeanor.
Criminal action may be initiated by any police officer or animal control
officer;
   (3)   Injunction. The town may apply to the appropriate court for injunctive
relief, orders of abatement and/or orders of custody which could require that a
violator correct any unlawful condition relating to this chapter existing on
his or her property. The chief may request the initiation of any such actions.
   (4)   Seizure/impoundment. In addition to criminal or civil penalties, for
certain violations of this chapter, or if conditions pose an immediate threat
to the health or safety of the animal or the public, animal control is
authorized to seize and impound an animal.
   (5)   Exception. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent law
enforcement officers of any kind from enforcing any of the provisions of this
chapter or from exercising their authority as law enforcement officers.
   (6)   Liability for payment. Surrender of an animal or failure to redeem an
animal shall not relieve the owner of responsibility for payment of any
outstanding civil penalty that was assessed prior to the animal being
surrendered or as a result of the animal being impounded. If payment of a civil
penalty is not received within 15 days of issuance of the citation, the chief
may initiate legal proceedings to recover the amount of the penalty.
   (c)   Private enforcement methods. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent a
private citizen from bringing an action to abate a nuisance or from bringing an
action for damage, loss or injury to the private citizen or his or her property
resulting from an animal being a nuisance.
(Code 1982, § 4-28; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2012-Code-02, 4-
19-2012; Ord. No. 2012-Code-04, 8-23-2012; Ord. No. 2016-Code-01, 2-25-2016;
Ord. No. 2019-Code-02, 9-12-2019)
   State law reference—Penalties for ordinance violations, G.S. 14-4, 160A-175.
Sec. 6-133. Citations.
   (a)   Citations. Animal control officers are empowered to issue citations to
any person if there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has violated
any provision of this chapter. These citations may be delivered in person to
the violator; or, if the violator cannot be readily found, the citation may be
mailed as provided in section
2-1. The citation shall direct the violator to pay the citation within 15 days
of the date of the citation. The citation may be paid at the town finance
office.
   (b)   Notice of further actions. If the violator does not pay the citation
within 15 days of its issuance, a notice thereof will be mailed to the
violator. This notice shall inform the violator that further legal action may
be filed if the citation and delinquency charges are not paid within 15 days
from the date of the delinquency notice.
   (c)   In duplicate. All citation forms shall be serially numbered in
duplicate. Records of all citations shall be maintained so that all such forms
shall be capable of being accounted for. The town finance director, or
designee, shall periodically investigate the records of the unit for the
purpose of determining the disposition of the citations and shall report the
results of such investigation to the town manager. For the purpose of this
investigation, the finance director shall have access to the necessary records
of the unit.
(Code 1982, § 4-29; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-
10-2019)
Sec. 6-134. Seizure and impoundment.
   (a)   Seizure. Domestic animals may be seized and impounded when found at
large, or as otherwise provided in this chapter. The unit, or some other
designated person, upon receiving such animal shall make a complete registry,
entering the breed, color and sex of such animal.
   (b)   Notice to owner. Upon seizing an animal a notice of seizure shall be
left with the owner or affixed to the premises. If an animal is not from a
particular premises but has an identification tag, the animal control officer
shall cause a prompt and reasonable effort to be made to locate and notify the
animal's owner.
   (c)   Failure to redeem. If the owner fails to redeem the animal within the
time limit provided in this chapter, or fails to timely request an appeal, or
fails to timely appeal the manager's decision, or if the animal is seized the
animal shall be deemed abandoned and disposed of as provided in section
6-137.
   (d)   Animal unattended in motor vehicle. In the case of an animal
discovered unattended and confined in a motor vehicle in violation of section
6-67(11), the following shall apply: after making a reasonable effort to find
the driver of a vehicle in which an animal is confined, an animal control
officer, in the presence of a police officer, may use the least intrusive means
to break and enter the vehicle if necessary to remove the animal where
reasonable cause exists to believe that the animal is in the vehicle in
violation of this chapter. The animal control officer removing the animal shall
then impound it and leave in a prominent place on the motor vehicle a written
notice of the animal's impoundment, a brief description of the animal, and
where and when the animal may be reclaimed. The animal control officer may also
issue a citation for violation of section
6-67(a)(11), animal abuse.
(Code 1982, § 4-30; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-135. Periods of impoundment.
   Domestic animals that are seized shall be impounded for no less than five
days in a humane manner.
(Code 1982, § 4-31; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-136. Redemption of impounded animal.
   (a)   Redemption within five days. The owner of an animal impounded under
this chapter may redeem such animal within five consecutive days after notice
of impoundment is given or posted as required by section 6-134, except as
provided in this chapter, upon the payment of all redemption fees, the
furnishing of proof of ownership, and upon complying with any other conditions
that may be required herein.
   (b)   Redemption fees. Redemption fees provided in this section shall
include an impoundment fee, any veterinarian's fees, and the daily fee for the
shelter and feeding. The impoundment fee and daily fee may be set by the animal
control shelter, and may be revised from time to time. The redemption fee for
an animal which has once previously been impounded within the previous six
months shall be double the impoundment fee that would otherwise be due. No
owner of an impounded animal will be allowed to avoid the payment of any fee
imposed under the provisions of this chapter by attempting to adopt the animal
instead of redeeming it.
   (c)   Vaccination. Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be
furnished, every person who either adopts or redeems a dog or cat at the animal
shelter will be issued a proof-of-rabies vaccination card at the time of
redemption or adoption. This card will be stamped with the date stating the
date by which the animal must be given a rabies vaccination by a provider of
the owner's choice. The time limit for dogs and cats aged four months and older
will be 72 hours, with Sundays and holidays excluded. For puppies and kittens
aged under four months, the limit will vary according to their age. The proof-
of-rabies vaccination card will be completed and returned to the animal shelter
by the veterinarian. If this card is not returned to the animal control shelter
within two weeks of the time limit specified on the card, an animal control
officer will be dispatched to retrieve the animal. Payment for rabies
vaccination provided for in this section shall be the responsibility of the
person redeeming or adopting the animal.
(Code 1982, § 4-32; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2019-Code-02, 9-
12-2019)
Sec. 6-137. Disposition of unredeemed animals.
   (a)   Deemed abandoned. At the end of the minimum time period indicated in
section
6-135, unclaimed animals shall be deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of in
a humane manner. The animal may be destroyed in a humane manner or the animal
may become the property of the animal shelter or may be offered for adoption to
a legitimate rescue group or may be offered for adoption to any responsible
adult who complies with the provisions of this chapter. Such animal may be
adopted or purchased by the first person who pays the adoption or purchase fee.
No rabies vaccination fee will be required for animals sold to dealers licensed
pursuant to the United States Department of Agriculture's Animal Welfare Act.
   (b)   Spaying/neutering. Animal control may recommend that all adopted
female dogs and cats released from the animal shelter be spayed and that all
adopted male dogs and cats released from the animal shelter be neutered.
(Code 1982, § 4-33; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2008-Code-04, 10-
16-2008)
Sec. 6-138. Summary destruction of animals for humane reasons; summary
destruction of animals that cannot be seized by reasonable means.
   When, in the judgment of the person in charge of impoundment facility, it is
determined that any impounded animal should be destroyed for humane reasons, or
to protect the public from imminent danger to persons or property, such animal
may be destroyed without regard to any time limitations otherwise established
herein. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal that
cannot be reasonably seized, retrieved, humanely trapped, or tranquilized may
be humanely destroyed in the field upon the authorization of the chief.
Provided, a vicious animal, an animal attacking a human being or pet, or a dog
determined to be a dangerous dog under section
6-70, may be summarily destroyed if, in the opinion of animal control, such
destruction is necessary for the protection of life or property or for the
public health and safety.
(Code 1982, § 4-34; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Sec. 6-139. Appeals.
   (a)   Appeals. Any person, owner, or possessor affected by any ruling or
action taken by animal control with regards to any of the following may request
a review of such action by filing a request for appeal with the town manager:
   (1)   Seizing, relocating and impounding an animal or bees, unless said
seizure was authorized by a judicial official.
   (2)   [reserved]
   (3)   Issuing a notice of intent to destroy.
      Appeals pertaining to section
6-70 (dangerous dog) shall be made and conducted according to the provisions of
that section.
   (b)   Method. Unless otherwise provided by law, a request for appeal must be
made in writing and filed with the town manager, with a copy to the chief,
within five days of the action or decision complained of and must state with
particularity the grounds for the appeal. An appeal hearing shall be scheduled
and conducted by the manager, or designee.
   (c)   Appeal bond. All persons requesting an appeal pursuant to this chapter
shall post with animal control an appeal bond of ten per cent of the amount
owed for redemption and boarding fees and civil penalties arising out of the
conduct which is the subject of the appeal. However, in no event shall the
appeal bond required pursuant to this section be less than $25.00 nor more than
$250.00.
   (d)   Waiver of bond. The appeal bond shall be waived for any person
determined to be indigent after filing an affidavit of indigence. The affidavit
must state that the citizen is without funds to post an appeal bond in the
amount required by the ordinance.
   (e)   Disposition of bond. The appeal bond shall be held pending
determination of the appeal by the manager. The appeal bond shall be fully
refunded if the manager overturns the action or decision complained of. If the
manager upholds or affirms the action or decision of animal control, the appeal
bond shall be paid to the animal shelter toward boarding and redemption fees
for the subject animal. If no redemption or boarding fees are owed, the appeal
bond shall be paid to the animal control unit.
   (f)   Responsible for fees and penalties. The owner shall remain responsible
for any outstanding boarding and redemption fees or civil penalties that are
not satisfied by the appeal bond.
   (g)   Decision. The manager shall render a decision within three business
days of the hearing. The decision shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or first class mail to the person requesting the appeal, with
a copy to animal control.
   (h)   Decision upholding action. If the decision is against the person
requesting the appeal, animal control shall implement the sanction(s) upheld by
the manager. The person requesting the appeal may appeal the decision of the
town manager to the Wake County Superior Court within ten days of the manager's
decision. Any sanctions or penalties imposed shall be enforceable during the
pendency of any appeal.
   (i)   Decision overturning action. If the decision is against animal
control, efforts to implement the sanction(s) shall cease. A decision rendered
by the manager applies only to the violation(s) and sanction(s) appealed and
does not prevent the animal control unit from enforcing a subsequent violation
of the same provision or any other provision of this chapter.
(Code 1982, § 4-35; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 2012-Code-02, 4-
19-2012; Ord. No. 2012-Code-06, 10-11-2012; Ord. No. 2016-Code-01, 2-25-2016;
Ord. No. 2019-Code-02, 9-12-2019)
Sec. 6-140. Exemptions.
   This chapter shall not apply to the lawful taking of animals under the
jurisdiction and regulation of the wildlife resources commission, lawful
activities of agencies conducting or sponsoring biomedical research or
training, lawful activities of any Law Enforcement Canine Team in the
performance of their duties, lawful activities for sport, the production of
livestock or poultry, or the lawful destruction of any animal for the purpose
of protecting livestock, poultry or humans.
(Code 1982, § 4-36; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001; Ord. No. 05-010, 7-28-
2005)
Sec. 6-141. Notice.
   Unless specifically provided otherwise herein, service of notices required
by this chapter shall be as provided in section
2-1.
(Code 1982, § 4-37; Ord. No. 01-022, § 1, 11-8-2001)
Chapter 7
RESERVED
 
Chapter 8
BUILDINGS AND BUILDING REGULATIONS
Article I. In General
Sec. 8-1.   Definitions.
Secs. 8-2--8-20. Reserved.
Article II. Building Numbers
Sec. 8-21.   Required.
Sec. 8-22.   Defacing numbers.
Sec. 8-23.   Future buildings.
Sec. 8-24.   Numbering system.
Secs. 8-25--8-51. Reserved.
Article III. State Building Code
Sec. 8-52.   State building code adopted.
Sec. 8-53.   Fire limits.
Sec. 8-54.   Building moving.
Sec. 8-55.   Permit.
Secs. 8-56--8-81. Reserved.
Article IV. Unsafe Structures
Sec. 8-82.   Finding; intent.
Sec. 8-83.   Director of inspections and permits division.
Sec. 8-84.   Standards for enforcement.
Sec. 8-85.   Investigations; issuance of complaint; hearing; decision of
inspector.
Sec. 8-86.   Definitions.
Secs. 8-87--8-115. Reserved.
Article V. Minimum Housing Standards
Sec. 8-116.   Finding; purpose.
Sec. 8-117.   Definitions.
Sec. 8-118.   Fitness.
Sec. 8-119.   Structural condition.
Sec. 8-120.   Basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment and facilities.
Sec. 8-121.   Light, ventilation and screening.
Sec. 8-122.   Space, use and location.
Sec. 8-123.   Reserved.
Sec. 8-124.   Sanitation.
Sec. 8-125.   Reserved.
Sec. 8-126.   Responsibilities of owners, operators and/or occupants.
Sec. 8-127.   Powers and duties of housing inspector.
Sec. 8-128.   Inspections.
Sec. 8-129.   Procedure for enforcement.
Sec. 8-130.   Appeals from orders of the inspector; review by court.
Sec. 8-131.   Filing of notice of lis pendens.
Sec. 8-132.   Methods of service of complaints and orders.
Sec. 8-133.   Costs a lien on premises; disposition of property.
Sec. 8-134.   Other remedies.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 8-1. Definitions.
   As used in the codes adopted in this chapter, The following words, terms and
phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
this section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Building official shall mean the director of the department of inspections
and permits.
   Department shall mean the department of inspections and permits.
   Director shall mean the director of the department of inspections and
permits.
(Code 1976, § 15-2(1—3); Code 1982, § 5-1)
Secs. 8-2—8-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. BUILDING NUMBERS
Sec. 8-21. Required.
   (a)   Every owner of improved property shall furnish and at all times
display in a conspicuous place on the street side of said property the correct
property number as determined by the town. The numerals used to display this
number shall be at least three inches high for residential properties and at
least six inches high for commercial properties and shall be readily visible
and legible from the street, and shall be of a color to contrast with their
background, except that owners of multifamily property involving more than one
primary building shall display property numbers at least six inches high for
the shell building and unit or suite numbers at least three inches high.
   (b)   All primary buildings on property not fronting on a public street will
display in a conspicuous place numbers or letters identifying said buildings.
The characters used for such identification shall be at least six inches high,
shall be readily visible and legible from the road, driveway, or parking lot
that provides vehicular access to said buildings, and shall be of a color to
contrast with their background.
(Code 1976, § 14-9; Code 1982, § 5-6; Ord. No. 85-2, § 1, 1-10-1985; Ord. No.
94-005, § 1, 4-14-1994)
Sec. 8-22. Defacing numbers.
   No person shall alter, deface or take down any number placed on any property
in accordance with this article, except for repair or replacement of such
number.
(Code 1976, § 14-9; Code 1982, § 5-17; Ord. No. 94-005, § 1, 4-14-1994)
Sec. 8-23. Future buildings.
   All residence and business buildings shall be assigned a number in
accordance with the property-numbering policy adopted by the town council.
(Code 1976, § 14-8; Code 1982, § 5-18; Ord. No. 94-005, § 1, 4-14-1994)
Sec. 8-24. Numbering system.
   Property shall be numbered in accordance with the policy adopted by the town
council.
(Code 1976, § 14-6; Code 1982, § 5-9; Ord. No. 94-005, § 1, 4-14-1994)
Secs. 8-25--8-51. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. STATE BUILDING CODE*
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Building code council and building code, G.S. 143-
136 et seq.; building inspection by municipalities, G.S. 160D-1102 et seq.;
adoption of technical codes, G.S. 160A-76(b).
----------
Sec. 8-52. State building code adopted.
   The North Carolina Building Code as now or hereafter amended is adopted by
reference.
(Code 1976, § 15-9; Code 1982, § 5-32)
Sec. 8-53. Fire limits.
   The primary fire limits shall be identified as centering on Chatham Street
with its boundaries defined by Walker Street to the east, the CSX Railroad
right-of-way to the north, Harrison Avenue to the west, and Waldo Street to the
south with its center line extending beyond Academy Street and intersecting
Harrison Avenue at a point approximately 225 feet south of the Chatham Street
center line.
(Code 1976, § 8-11; Code 1982, § 5-35; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
   State law reference(s)--Fire limits, G.S. 160D-1128
Sec. 8-54. Building moving.
   (a)   No person shall move any house, building or structure upon or across
the public streets or sidewalks without the written consent of the town manager
and the deposit of a good and sufficient bond in an amount considered by the
town manager to be sufficient to cover any damage occurring to public or
private property.
   (b)   No person shall move or assist in moving from without into the fire
district, or moving from one place to another within the same, any building of
a type of construction other than those types permitted to be constructed
within fire limits by the general statutes and the state building code.
(Code 1976, §§ 8-12, 14-50; Code 1982, § 5-36)
Sec. 8-55. Permit.
   No permit shall be issued to any person who has failed after notice to
remedy defective work, or has failed to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant
to this Code which is due and for which no appeal is pending for work performed
under a permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2007-18, 12-13-2007)
Secs. 8-56--8-81. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. UNSAFE STRUCTURES*
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Defective buildings, G.S. 160D-1118.; minimum
housing standards, G.S. 160D-1201.
----------
Sec. 8-82. Finding; intent.
   It is hereby found that there exist within the town abandoned structures
which the town council finds to be hazardous to the health, safety and welfare
of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or rodents,
conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat
to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by G.S. 160D-
1201, it is the intent of this article to provide for the repair, closing or
demolition and removal of any such abandoned structures in accordance with the
same provisions and procedures as are set forth by law for the repair, closing
or demolition and removal of housing unfit for human habitation.
(Code 1982, § 5-72; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-
2021)
Sec. 8-83. Director of inspections and permits division.
   This article shall be enforced by the director and by his or her designee
(s). The director is hereby designated and appointed to enforce the provisions
of this article and to exercise the duties and powers prescribed herein, and in
the minimum housing standards, including:
   (1)   Investigate the condition of buildings within the town in order to
determine which structures are abandoned and in violation of this article;
   (2)   Enter upon premises for the purpose of making inspections;
   (3)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (4)   Designate such other officers, agents and employees of the town as the
inspector deems necessary to carry out the provisions of this article;
   (5)   Take such action pursuant to this article as may be necessary to
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of such structures;
   (6)   Keep an accurate record of the results of inspections made under this
article and all enforcement proceedings begun pursuant to the provisions of
this article; and
   (7)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or in article V,
or assigned to the inspector by the town council.
(Code 1982, § 5-73; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-
2021)
   State law reference(s)--Mandatory provisions, G.S. 160D-1203.
Sec. 8-84. Standards for enforcement.
   (a)   Every abandoned structure within the town shall be deemed in violation
of this article whenever such structure constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the town citizens as a result of:
   (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
   (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
   (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
   (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary
facilities.
   (b)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this article, the director may, by way of
illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
   (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure's floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects.
   (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects, or become breeding places for rodents and
insects.
   (3)   Violations of the state building code, the state electrical code, or
the fire codes which constitute a fire hazard in such structure.
   (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible materials which
constitute a fire hazard in such structure.
   (5)   The use of such structure or nearby grounds or facilities by children
as a play area.
   (6)   Violations of the state building code which might result in danger to
children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area.
   (7)   Repeated use of such structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Code 1982, § 5-74; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996)
Sec. 8-85. Investigations; issuance of complaint; hearing; decision of
inspector.
   The same powers and duties, provisions, and procedures shall apply for the
investigation, issuance of orders, appeal procedures, and enforcement of orders
pertaining to unsafe abandoned structures as apply to the enforcement of the
town's minimum housing standards, article V, inclusive, except as follows:
Wherever the term "housing" appears, the term "abandoned structure" shall be
substituted therefor; wherever the phrase "unfit for human habitation" appears,
the phrase "health, safety or welfare hazard" shall be substituted therefor.
(Code 1982, § 5-75; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996)
Sec. 8-86. Definitions.
   (a)   Generally. The following definitions to this article shall apply in
addition to the applicable definitions contained in section
8-117:
   Abandoned means deserted, or discontinuance of use.
   Building means any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering
any use or occupancy.
   Deteriorated means any structure which constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the town and can be repaired, altered or improved to
comply with this article at a cost not in excess of 50 percent of its value, as
determined by finding of the inspector.
   Dilapidated means any structure which constitutes a hazard to the health,
safety or welfare of the town citizens and cannot be repaired, altered or
improved to comply with this article except at a cost in excess of 50 percent
of its value, as determined by finding of the inspector.
   Structure means that which is built or constructed.
   (b)   Words having certain meanings. Whenever the word "abandoned structure"
is used herein, it shall be construed as though followed by the words "or any
part thereof."
(Code 1982, § 5-76; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-
2021)
   State law reference—Similar provisions, G.S. 160D-1205.
Secs. 8-87—8-115. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Sec. 8-116. Finding; purpose.
   (a)   Pursuant to G.S. 160D-1201, it is hereby declared that there exists in
the town, housing which is unfit for human habitation due to:
   (1)   Dilapidation;
   (2)   Defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities;
   (3)   Lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; or
   (4)   Other conditions rendering such dwellings unsafe or unsanitary for the
occupants thereof or of neighboring dwellings or for other residents of the
town.
   (b)   It is further declared that the existence of such unfit housing is
dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise
inimical to the welfare of, the residents of the town.
   (c)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town as authorized by G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 12 (G.S. 160D-1201 et seq.),
it is the purpose of this article to establish and enforce minimum standards of
fitness for the existence and initial and continued occupancy of all buildings
used for human habitation, and for the protection of occupants of neighboring
housing and other residents of the town, as expressly authorized by G.S. 160D-
1205.
(Code 1982, § 5-200; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2010-Code-01, 3-10-
2010; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
Sec. 8-117. Definitions.
   (a)   Generally. The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation
and enforcement of this article:
   Accessory structure means any building or structure used or intended to be
used in conjunction with housing but not used for habitation, whether attached
to or detached from a primary structure, including, but not limited to, sheds,
storage buildings, carports and garages, and any attached fence.
   Basement means a portion of any housing, at least 40 percent of the
habitable space of which is located below finished grade level, having direct
access to light and air from windows located above grade.
   Bedroom means a room designated or used as a sleeping or bedroom.
   Cellar means a portion of any housing which is located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   Deteriorated means housing which is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this article at a cost not in excess of 50 percent of its value,
as determined by finding of the inspector. Repair at a cost not in excess of 50
percent of the value is hereby deemed reasonable pursuant to G.S. 160D-1203(3).
   Dilapidated means housing which is substandard or unfit for human habitation
and cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this article except at a cost in excess of 50 percent
of its value, as determined by finding of the inspector.
   Dwelling means any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home,
or part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so
used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith. For purposes of this Article V, the term "dwelling" does not
include any manufactured home, mobile home, or recreational vehicle which is
used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose.
   Dwelling unit means a single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   Egress means a clear and unobstructed way of departure from the interior of
housing to the exterior at street or grade level.
   Extermination means the control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the inspector.
   Flue means an enclosed pipe, duct or passageway used only for the
transmission of heat or the products of combustion.
   Garbage means the organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food.
   Habitable room or habitable space means a room or enclosed floor space used
or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes,
excluding bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms,
foyers, communicating corridors, wall areas, storage spaces, and any area
beneath a ceiling of less than four and one-half feet in height.
   Housing means any residential building, dwelling, dwelling unit, multiple
dwelling, apartment, boardinghouse or similar building or structure, or part
thereof, together with the premises of such building, and other appurtenances
thereto.
   Impervious to water (as to floors) means a clean, smooth floor, without
cracks or holes, made of terrazzo, ceramic, asphalt or rubber tile, smooth
concrete, linoleum or other similar material, or made of wood, and, if made of
wood, then with tightly fitting joints, covered with varnish, lacquer or other
similar water-resistant coating.
   Infestation means the presence of any insects, rodents or other pests within
or around housing in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   Inspector means the director of inspections and permits department and his
or her designee(s). In addition to the powers and responsibilities granted in
this article, the inspector shall have and may exercise the powers and
responsibilities of "public officer" set forth in G.S. 160D-1201.
   Landings means any flat area around doorways, ramps, or stairs as required
by the state residential building code and shall be at least three foot in
depth with a minimum width no less than the door it serves.
   Multiple dwelling means any housing containing more than two dwelling units.
   Occupant means any person living, sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having
actual possession of, housing.
   Operator means any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which housing is let.
   Owner means any person who is the holder of title in fee simple to housing,
and every mortgagee of record.
   Party or parties in interest means all persons who have interest of record
in housing, and any persons who are in possession thereof.
   Person means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, firm,
partnership, association, conservator, receiver, trustee, executor or other
legal entity.
   Plumbing means supplied fixtures, as defined herein, together with all
connections to water, sewer or gas lines within the property lines of the
premises, employed for use of water, sewer or gas utilities, including, but not
limited to, gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage
disposal units (mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths,
installed clothes-washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and traps.
   Porch means a covered area greater than 25 square feet with a roof at an
entrance to housing.
   Premises means a lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon, or any part thereof, except land occupied by streets,
alleys or public thoroughfares.
   Public authority means any housing authority or any officer or employee of
any department or branch of the governments of the town, county, or the state
relating to health, safety, law enforcement, fire or building regulations or
other activities concerning housing in the town.
   Remove and demolish means the demolition and removal of the entire building
or structure, leaving the premises free and clear of any debris, any excavation
properly filled in, and with no holes or pockets which may retain water.
   Rubbish means combustible or noncombustible waste materials, except garbage,
including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass or dust.
   Structure means that which is built or constructed.
   Substandard means any condition existing in any housing which does not meet
the standards of fitness of this article as stated in Sections
8-119 through
8-126.
   Unfit for human habitation or unfit means housing which is dangerous or
injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of the housing, the
occupants of neighboring housing, or other residents of the town, as further
described in Section
8-118(c).
   Vacate and close means that housing shall be secured to prevent entry,
including all outer doors firmly locked and basement, cellar and windows barred
or boarded. It also means that such housing shall not again be used for human
habitation until all violations are corrected and an inspection is conducted by
the inspector to verify compliance with this article.
   Value means the total value of any structure which is the subject of an
order hereunder, as appraised for ad valorem tax purposes on the duly adopted
and recorded tax rolls of the county on the date of the inspector's initial
order pursuant to section
8-129(b) herein.
   Ventilation means the natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned
or unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   Weathertight means so constructed that the housing resists weather and
excludes precipitation and prevents the infiltration of air.
   (b)   Words having certain meanings. Whenever the words "housing,"
"dwelling," "dwelling unit," and "premises" are used in this article, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words "or any part
thereof."
(Code 1982, § 5-201; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2010-Code-01, 3-10-
2010; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-2011; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
Sec. 8-118. Fitness.
   (a)   All housing used as human habitation, or held out for use as human
habitation, should comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for
human habitation set forth as sections
8-119 through
8-126, inclusive, of this article, and any housing which does not so comply is
considered substandard.
   (b)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any housing which is unfit for human
habitation as provided below.
   (c)   The Town Council hereby finds that existence of any one of the
following conditions renders housing unfit for human habitation:
   (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or buckle
to such an extent as to render the building unsafe;
   (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33 percent or more damage or
deterioration, or nonsupporting, enclosing or outside wall or covering which
shows 50 percent or more of damage or deterioration;
   (3)   Floors or roof which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded, or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used;
   (4)   Such damage by fire, wind, water or other causes as to render the
building unsafe or dangerous to the health, safety, or morals of the occupants
or other people in the town;
   (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or morals of the occupants or other people in
the town;
   (6)   The means of exit or escape in case of fire, accident or other
calamity is blocked, structurally unsafe, or otherwise insufficient;
   (7)   Defects significantly increasing hazards of fire, accident or other
calamity;
   (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
required by this article to such an extent as to endanger the health, safety,
morals or general welfare of the occupants or other residents of the town;
   (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required by
this article which constitute a health or safety hazard;
   (10)   Lack of adequate weatherization as required by sections
8-119 and
8-121;
   (11)   Lack of an operable smoke detector or an operable carbon monoxide
detector, as required by section
8-126 and state law;
   (12)   Any combination of other conditions that are substandard under this
article which, in the judgment of the inspector, renders any housing dangerous
or injurious to the health, safety or morals of the occupants of the housing,
the occupants of neighboring housing, or other residents of the town,
including, but not limited to, defects therein increasing the hazards of fire,
accident, or other calamities; lack of adequate ventilation, light or sanitary
facilities; dilapidation disrepair; structural defects; or uncleanliness.
(Code 1982, § 5-202; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-
2011)
Sec. 8-119. Structural condition.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural condition of any housing:
   (1)   Foundations.
      a.   A foundation wall shall support the building at all points and shall
be free of holes and cracks which would admit rodents, water or dampness to the
interior of the housing or lessen the capability of the foundation to support
the housing.
      b.   Footings shall be sound and have adequate bearing capacity.
      c.   Piers shall be sound with no loose mortar or masonry.
      d.   No pier in which the plumb line from top center falls outside the
middle one-third of the pier base shall be allowed.
      e.   No wood stiff-knees or other improper piers shall be allowed.
      f.   The space between the ground and the first floor of all housing
shall be enclosed with masonry or other permanent material of at least one-half
inch in thickness, except where underpinning is not consistent with the
architecture of the housing, as determined by the inspector. Where wood is used
as underpinning, such wood, in addition to the conditions set out above, shall
be weather-treated and permanently affixed. Where no underpinning is required,
the ground level floor shall be substantially weathertight and insulated to R-
19 value.
      g.   Crawl space shall be graded so as to prevent any standing water.
      h.   A crawl space access hole having a door shall be provided to any
under-floor space in all housing.
      i.   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (2)   Floors.
      a.   Floors shall have adequate supporting members and strength to be
reasonably safe for the purpose used, shall not have improperly distributed
loads, and shall not be overloaded.
      b.   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, nor shall there be
wood floors on the ground.
      c.   There shall be no decayed, termite-damaged, fire-damaged, broken,
overloaded or sagging sills, beams, girders, joists, or flooring that adversely
affect the structural integrity of the housing framing system, floor framing
system, or flooring.
      d.   Flooring shall be weathertight and watertight without holes or
cracks which permit excessive air to penetrate rooms, and shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition.
      e.   There shall be no loose flooring and floors and supporting members
shall be reasonably smooth and level so as not to constitute a trip hazard.
      f.   Every kitchen, laundry room, water closet compartment and bathroom
floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to permit such floor to
be reasonably impervious to water. The floor surfaces shall be covered with a
nonabsorbent material.
   (3)   Walls, exterior.
      a.   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might
admit rodents.
      b.   There shall be no wall in which the plumb line from the top to the
floor exceeds three inches.
      c.   All exterior surfaces shall be structurally sound, waterproof,
weatherproof and verminproof.
      d.   All exterior finishes shall be weathertight with no holes, cracks or
rotted boards which permit outside air or water to penetrate rooms.
      e.   Windows shall be easily openable, shall have panes without cracks or
holes, and the sash shall fit properly.
      f.   There shall be no deterioration due to the elements because of lack
of preventive maintenance consisting of painting, waterproofing and repair.
   (4)   Walls, interior.
      a.   Interior walls of all rooms, closets and hallways shall be finished
of suitable materials.
      b.   The interior finish shall be free of holes and cracks which permit
air to penetrate rooms excessively.
      c.   No studs shall be rotted or termite-damaged.
      d.   No broken or cracked studs or other broken or cracked structural
members shall be allowed.
      e.   All walls, woodwork, doors and windows shall be kept clean and free
of any flaking, loose or peeling paint.
      f.   Cardboard, newspaper or other highly combustible or improper wall
finish is prohibited.
      g.   No interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle shall be allowed.
   (5)   Ceilings.
      a.   Ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall be finished of
suitable materials, and shall be maintained in such a manner so as to enable
the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between various spaces.
      b.   No joists shall be rotted, broken or sagging or have improperly
supported ends.
      c.   There shall be no holes or cracks which permit air excessively to
penetrate rooms.
      d.   No loose plaster, loose boards, loose sheetrock or other loose
ceiling finish shall be permitted.
      e.   There shall be no cardboard or other highly combustible material
used as a ceiling finish.
      f.   All ceilings shall be kept clean and free of any flaking, loose or
peeling paint and paper.
   (6)   Roof.
      a.   The roof and flashings shall be constructed and maintained so as to
be weathertight and watertight.
      b.   Rafters shall not be rotted, broken, sagging or have improperly
supported ends.
      c.   Attics shall be properly vented.
      d.   No rotted, loose or sagging sheathing shall be allowed.
      e.   No loose roof covering shall be allowed, nor shall there be allowed
any holes or leaks which could cause damage to the structure or rooms.
      f.   Walls and chimneys shall have proper flashing.
      g.   No rafters shall be damaged by fire.
      h.   Roofs shall not have improperly distributed loads and shall not be
overloaded.
   (7)   Porches, landings, etc.
      a.   Foundation, floor, ceiling and roof shall be equal to standards as
set forth above, except sills and joists need not be level if providing
drainage of floors; floors need not be weathertight; floors need not be level
if providing for drainage; ceiling height shall not be less than seven feet,
zero inches and attic need not be vented.
      b.   Posts and railings shall not be rotted or termite-damaged.
      c.   Every porch, terrace or entrance platform located at least 30 inches
above the adjacent finished grade shall be equipped with adequate railings.
      d.   Every porch and any railing or other appurtenance thereto shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the load that normal use would cause to
be placed thereon and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (8)   Stairs and steps.
      a.   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks that are
large enough to constitute accident hazards.
      b.   Stairwells and flights of stairs, attached to or within a dwelling
unit, that contain more than four risers shall have rails not less than 30
inches and not more than 38 inches measured vertically from the nose of the
treads to the top of the rail.
      c.   Every rail on all porches, balconies or any raised surface greater
than 30 inches from finished grade shall be firmly fastened and maintained in
good condition.
      d.   No flight of stairs settled more than one inch out of its intended
position or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures shall be
allowed.
      e.   No rotting, sagging or deteriorated supports shall be allowed.
      f.   Stairs shall be plumb, level and treads shall be uniform in width,
and risers uniform in height, sound and securely fastened to structure. A
slight uniform tilt of the treads to aid in the runoff of water is permissible
for exterior steps.
      g.   Every outside and inside stair and any railing or other appurtenance
thereto shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load that normal use
would cause to be placed thereon and shall be kept in sound condition and good
repair.
   (9)   Egress. A safe, continuous and unobstructed egress shall be provided
from every dwelling unit to required exit to the external street or grade level
as required by the state residential building code in case of fire or panic.
   (10)   Chimneys. There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are
defective, deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or
location as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (11)   Basement walls. Basement walls shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weathertight and watertight.
   (12)   Doors and windows. All doors and windows exposed to the weather, and
all basement or cellar doors and hatchways, shall be constructed and maintained
so as to be weathertight, watertight, rodentproof, and in sound working
condition and good repair.
(Code 1982, § 5-203; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-
2011)
Sec. 8-120. Basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment and facilities.
   (a)   Plumbing system.
   (1)   All housing shall be connected to a potable water supply and to a
public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
   (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
   (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the state plumbing
code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good working
order.
   (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of such dwelling unit. The water closet
and tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the
user.
   (b)   Heating system. All housing shall have facilities for providing heat
in accordance with the following:
   (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 68 degrees Fahrenheit measured at a
point three feet above the floor at an outside temperature of 20 degrees
Fahrenheit.
   (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating system
is not provided, all housing shall be provided with sufficient fireplaces,
chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which heating appliances may
be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum temperature of 68
degrees Fahrenheit measured three feet above the floor at an outside
temperature of 20 degrees Fahrenheit.
   (3)   All heating systems and facilities shall meet the standards of the
state mechanical code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
   (4)   Portable kerosene heaters are not acceptable as a permanent source of
heat, but may be used as a supplementary source in detached dwellings and
duplex units.
   (c)   Electrical system.
   (1)   All housing shall be wired for electric lights and receptacle outlets.
   (2)   Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor or wall-type
receptacle outlets, connected in such manner as determined by the state
electrical code.
   (3)   There shall be installed in every bathroom, water closet room, laundry
room and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light
fixture.
   (4)   In the event wall or ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any
habitable room, then each such habitable room shall contain at least three
floor or wall-type receptacle outlets, one of which shall be a switched outlet.
   (5)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient, operable by means of conveniently located light switches.
   (6)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained in
a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the state electrical code.
   (7)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other fixtures shall be broken or
hanging loose.
   (8)   There shall be no bare wires, open joints or spliced cables.
   (9)   No branch circuits shall be overloaded or have overcurrent protection
devices installed that exceed the current carrying capacity of that circuit.
(Code 1982, § 5-204; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2010-Code-01, 3-10-
2010; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-2011; Ord. No. 2022-Code-01, 4-28-2022)
Sec. 8-121. Light, ventilation and screening.
   (a)   Window area.
   (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors.
   (2)   The minimum total window area for every habitable room shall measure
eight square feet or eight percent of the floor area, whichever is greater.
   (3)   Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of any
room and such light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet from
the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area.
   (4)   Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the
top of such room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least
15 percent of the total floor area of such room.
   (b)   Openable windows, ventilators.
   (1)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room.
   (c)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms, except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
   (d)   Windows and doors. Windows and doors shall be reasonably weathertight,
shall have no broken glass, and shall have adequate operable locks and
hardware.
   (e)   Screening.
   (1)   During the period of April 1 to October 1, inclusive, for protection
against mosquitoes, flies and other insects, every door opening from any
housing directly to outdoor space shall have supplied screens and a self-
closing device, and every openable window or other device opening to outdoor
space used, designed or intended to be used for ventilation shall likewise be
supplied with screens.
   (2)   Habitable space which is mechanically ventilated year-round by
permanently installed central air conditioning equipment shall be exempt from
this standard.
   (f)   Basement and cellar screening. Every basement or cellar window used or
intended to be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement
which might provide an entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or
such other approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
(Code 1982, § 5-205; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-
2011)
Sec. 8-122. Space, use and location.
   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size and egress
requirements for habitable space required by the applicable state residential
building code. In addition:
   (1)   Principal room. A living or principal room shall contain not less than
150 square feet.
   (2)   Kitchens. Kitchens shall contain not less than 50 square feet, and a
kitchen-dining room combination, if any, shall contain not less than 100 square
feet.
   (3)   First bedrooms. The first bedroom shall contain not less than 100
square feet.
   (4)   Other bedrooms. All other bedrooms, if any, shall contain not less
than 70 square feet each.
   (5)   Minimum room size. Each habitable room shall have at least 70 square
feet.
   (6)   Minimum floor area. Every dwelling unit shall contain a total floor
area of at least 150 square feet of habitable space for the first occupant, at
least 100 square feet of additional habitable floor area for each of the next
three occupants, and at least 75 square feet of additional habitable floor area
for each additional occupant over the number of four occupants. Children less
than one year of age shall not be counted.
   (7)   Minimum sleeping area. In every dwelling unit, every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age. In addition, egress requirements per N.C.
Building Code, 1968 Edition, shall be met.
   (8)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (9)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area; however, closet area and wall area within the dwelling
unit may count for not more than ten percent of the required habitable floor
area. The floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less
than four and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area
for the purpose of determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (10)   Cellars. Cellars shall not be used for living purposes.
   (11)   Basements. Basements shall not be used for living purposes, unless:
      a.   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water;
      b.   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling height
are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and any room used for sleeping
must meet subsection 7 above.
      c.   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is entirely
above the grade adjoining such window area.
(Code 1982, § 5-206; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-
2011)
Sec. 8-123. Reserved.
Sec. 8-124. Sanitation.
   (a)   Rubbish and garbage storage and disposal.
   (1)   Yards and courts within the premises of any housing shall be kept
clean and free of rubbish, trash, garbage, debris, litter or unstacked wood.
   (2)   All housing shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for
storage of rubbish, as required by town ordinances, and the owner of such
housing shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (3)   Every dwelling and every dwelling unit shall be supplied with an
approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an adequate mechanical garbage
disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each dwelling unit, or an approved
outside garbage can as required by town ordinances.
   (b)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (c)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (d)   Infestation.
   (1)   Every occupant of housing consisting of a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
therein or on the premises.
   (2)   Any occupant of housing containing more than one dwelling shall be
responsible for such extermination whenever his unit is the only one infested.
   (3)   If infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain housing
in a rodentproof or reasonably insectproof condition, or if infestation exists
in two or more of the dwelling units in any housing in the shared or public
parts of any housing containing two or more units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (e)   Violations of this Section may also be enforced pursuant to applicable
sections of
Chapter 18 of the Town Code of Ordinances.
(Code 1982, § 5-208; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-
2011)
Sec. 8-125. Reserved.
Sec. 8-126. Responsibilities of owners, operators and/or occupants.
   (a)   Public areas. Every owner of housing containing two or more dwelling
units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition
the shared or public areas of the housing and premises thereof.
   (b)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of housing shall keep in a clean and
sanitary condition that part of the housing and premises thereof which he
occupies and controls.
   (c)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of housing shall dispose of all
his rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the
supplied storage facilities. In all cases, the owner shall be responsible for
the availability of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (d)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of housing shall keep all
supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall
be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and
operation of such plumbing fixtures.
   (e)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface, or impair any of the facilities or equipment or any
part of the structure of the housing occupied.
   (f)   Smoke detectors.
   (1)   The owner or operator of every occupied dwelling or dwelling unit
shall provide each dwelling or dwelling unit with at least one operable smoke
detector installed outside the sleeping areas, to be located on or near the
ceiling.
   (2)   Detectors shall be electrically or battery operated and shall provide
an audible alarm when activated.
   (3)   For purposes of this subsection, the term "operable" is defined as
working when a battery is inserted or the electricity is on; however, neither
the owner nor the landlord is obligated to provide the electricity or
replacement batteries for its operation.
   (4)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this article, where the state
building code requires the installation of an electrical smoke detector or
alarm, that code or provision shall control.
   (g)   Carbon monoxide detectors. Carbon monoxide detectors shall be provided
and maintained as required by state law.
(Code 1982, § 5-210; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2010-Code-01, 3-10-
2010; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-2011)
Sec. 8-127. Powers and duties of housing inspector.
   The housing inspector is hereby designated and appointed to enforce the
provisions of this article and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed:
   (1)   To investigate housing conditions and to inspect housing located in
the town in order to determine which housing is unfit for human habitation, and
to carry out and effectuate the objectives of this article with respect to the
repair, closing or demolition of such housing;
   (2)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspection made under this article
and an inventory of housing that does not meet the minimum standards of fitness
herein prescribed;
   (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses, and receive
evidence;
   (5)   To enter upon premises for the purposes of making examinations and
inspections; provided, such entries shall be made in such manner as to cause
the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
   (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents, and employees
necessary to carry out the purposes of this article;
   (7)   To delegate any of the inspector's functions and powers under this
article; and
   (8)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
town council.
(Code 1982, § 5-211; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2010-Code-01, 3-10-
2010; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-2011)
Sec. 8-128. Inspections.
   (a)   Authority to enter. For the purpose of making inspections and
otherwise performing duties under this article, the inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all housing for
the purpose of performing the inspector's duty of safeguarding the health and
safety of the occupants of housing and of the general public.
   (b)   Obtaining a warrant. Whenever an owner, occupant, or agent thereof
shall deny the inspector reasonable access to any premises for purposes of
making inspections, the housing inspector shall obtain a warrant to inspect as
authorized by G.S. 15-27.2.
(Code 1982, § 5-212; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996)
Sec. 8-129. Procedure for enforcement.
   (a)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. On the inspectors own
motion, on request of any public authority, or upon receipt of a petition
signed by any five residents of the town alleging that any housing is unfit for
human habitation, the inspector shall undertake a preliminary investigation of
the premises. If the inspector's preliminary investigation discloses a basis
for such charges, the inspector shall issue a complaint stating the charges and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the inspector or the
inspector's designated agent at a place within the county in which the property
is located, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint. The inspector shall serve the complaint and notice upon the owner
of, and parties in interest in, such housing. The owner and any party in
interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear
in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall
not be controlling in hearings before the inspector.
   (b)   Issuance of order after hearing. If, after such notice and hearing,
the inspector shall determine that the housing under consideration is unfit for
human habitation under the terms of this article, the inspector shall state in
writing his findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue
and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an order. If any party in
interest took part in the hearing, the order shall also be served on that
person. The order shall do the following:
   (1)   Deteriorated housing. If the housing is determined to be deteriorated,
the order shall require the owner, within the time specified in the order, to
repair, alter or improve it in order to render it fit for human habitation. The
order may require that the housing be vacated and closed only if continued
occupancy during the time allowed for repair will present a significant threat
of bodily harm, taking into account the nature of the necessary repairs,
alterations, or improvements; the current state of the housing; and any
additional risks due to the presence and capacity of minors under the age of 18
or occupants with physical or mental disabilities. The order shall state that
the failure to make timely repairs as directed in the order shall make the
dwelling subject to the issuance of an unfit order under subdivision (d)(2)b of
this section; or
   (2)   Dilapidated housing. If the housing is determined to be dilapidated,
the order shall require the owner, within the time specified in the order, to
demolish or remove such housing.
   (3)   Historic housing. Notwithstanding subsection (b)(2) above, or any
other provision of law, if the housing is located in a historic district of the
town and the historic district commission determines, after a public hearing as
provided by ordinance, that the housing is of particular significance or value
toward maintaining the character of the district, and the housing has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the housing be vacated and
closed consistent with G.S. 160D-949.
   (c)   Notice to affordable housing organizations. In compliance with G.S.
160D-1203(9), whenever a determination is made that the housing must be vacated
and closed, or removed or demolished, the inspector shall send notice of the
order by first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or
restoring dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for
such notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of such notice shall
be given before removal or demolition by action of the inspector.
   (d)   Failure to comply with order.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any housing to fail, neglect, or
refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to fail, neglect or refuse to
vacate and close or vacate and demolish and remove such housing, upon order of
the inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the time
specified in such order. Each day that any such failure, neglect, or refusal to
comply with such order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
   (2)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, violation of this article
shall be a civil offense. If an owner fails to comply with an order to repair,
alter or improve or to vacate and close, or demolish or remove any housing, any
one, all, or combination of the enforcement actions authorized by law may be
taken, including those set forth herein.
      a.   Civil penalty.
      1.   If the owner of any deteriorated or dilapidated housing shall fail
to comply with an order of the inspector within the time specified therein, or
if any housing is occupied in violation of this article or any valid order or
decision of the inspector or board of adjustment made pursuant to this article,
the owner shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100.00 for the first 30 day
period or part thereof in which a violation is allowed to persist, $200.00 for
the second 30 day period or part thereof in which a violation is allowed to
persist, and $400.00 for the third or any subsequent 30 day period in which the
violation is allowed to persist. Each subsequent 30 day period after the third
will be subject to a civil penalty of $400.00. Each 30 day period or part
thereof in which a violation is allowed to persist will constitute a separate
and distinct offense. If a person fails to pay the civil penalty within ten
days after being notified of the amount due, the town may recover the civil
penalty together with all costs by filing one or more civil actions in the
general court of justice in the nature of a suit to collect a debt. The town
attorney is hereby authorized to file suit on behalf of the town to collect any
civil penalties, and the town manager is hereby authorized to verify and sign
complaints on behalf of the town in such suits.
      2.   No civil penalty shall be imposed against an owner of unfit housing
where the only violation rendering the housing unfit is a violation for which
this article provides that the occupant is the sole person responsible, unless
the owner is also the occupant.
      3.   If the owner of any deteriorated or dilapidated housing shall fail
to comply with an order of the inspector within the time specified therein, or
if any housing is occupied in violation of this article or any valid order or
decision of the inspector or board of adjustment made pursuant to this article,
two times or more within any 12-month period regarding the same housing unit,
the civil penalty for the second and all subsequent violations shall be double
the amounts specified in subsection (d)(2)(a)(1) above.
      b.   Action pursuant to ordinance. If the owner of deteriorated or
dilapidated housing fails to comply with an order of the inspector within the
time specified therein and court ordered relief has not been sought or has not
been granted as provided in subsection (d)(2)e, the inspector may cause the
housing to be repaired, altered, improved, vacated, closed or demolished and
removed, as required by the order, provided the inspector takes the following
steps. The inspector may submit to the town council for adoption an ordinance
describing the property and ordering the inspector to proceed to effectuate the
purpose of this article with respect to the particular property or properties
which the inspector found to be unfit for human habitation. No such ordinance
shall be adopted to require demolition and removal of housing until the owner
has first been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with
this article. Such ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the register of
deeds of the county where the property is located, and shall be indexed in the
name of the property owner in the grantor index. After the adoption of an
ordinance authorizing that housing be vacated and closed, the inspector may
post a placard on the main entrance of any housing so closed stating "This
building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this building
for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful." If any occupant fails to
comply with an order to vacate housing after adoption of such ordinance, the
inspector may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove such
occupant in accordance with G.S. 160D-1203(8), including the provision of 30
days' prior notice to an occupant who is a tenant of the owner.
      c.   Occupation in violation of posting a misdemeanor. Notwithstanding
any other provision of this article, in accordance with G.S. 160D-1203(4),
occupation of a building posted by the inspector pursuant to subsection (d)(2)b
shall constitute a class 1 misdemeanor.
      d.   Abandonment of Intent to Repair. If the town council shall have
adopted an ordinance pursuant to subsection (d)(2)b above or, if the inspector
shall have issued an order ordering a dwelling to be repaired or vacated and
closed, as provided in subsection (b)(1) above, and if the owner has vacated
and closed such housing and kept such housing vacated and closed for a period
of one year pursuant to the ordinance or order, then, if the town council shall
find that the owner has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter or
improve the dwelling in order to render it fit for human habitation and that
the continuation of the housing in its vacated and closed status would be
inimical to the health, safety, morals and welfare of the town in that the
housing would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire and safety hazard,
would be a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on
criminal activities, would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration
of property values in the area, or would render unavailable property and
housing which might otherwise have been made available to ease the persistent
shortage of decent and affordable housing, in such circumstances the town
council may, after the expiration of such one-year period, enact an ordinance
and serve such ordinance on the owner requiring the owner to either repair or
demolish and remove the housing within 90 days. Such ordinance shall meet the
requirements set forth in G.S. 160A-443(5a) and shall be recorded in the office
of the register of deeds of the county where the housing is located and shall
be indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index. If the owner
fails to comply with this ordinance within the time fixed by such ordinance,
then the inspector shall effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
         i.   If the housing is Deteriorated, repair or demolish and remove the
dwelling within 90 days; or
         ii.   If the housing is Dilapidated, demolish and remove the dwelling
within 90 days. Such ordinance shall meet the requirements set forth in G.S.
160D-1203(6) and shall be recorded in the office of the register of deeds of
the county where the housing is located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with this
ordinance within the time fixed by such ordinance, then the inspector shall
effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
      e.   Court-ordered relief. If the owner of any deteriorated housing shall
fail to comply with an order of the inspector to repair, alter, or improve or
to vacate and close such housing within the time specified therein, or if the
owner of dilapidated housing shall fail to comply with an order of the
inspector to demolish or remove such housing within the time specified therein,
or if any housing is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained, or used in violation of this article or any valid order or decision
of the inspector or board of adjustment made pursuant to this article, the
inspector may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the
unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration or use; to
restrain, correct or abate the violation; to prevent the occupancy of the
housing; or for any other purpose authorized by G.S. 160D-1208(e) or other law.
      f.   Other enforcement action. The failure of the owner to comply with an
order issued by the inspector may also be enforced through any equitable or
other remedy deemed appropriate by the town and permitted by law.
(Code 1982, § 5-213; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 05-003, 2-24-2005;
Ord. No. 2010-Code-01, 3-10-2010; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-2011; Ord. No.
2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
   State law reference—Penalties for ordinance violations, G.S. 14-4, 160A-175.
Sec. 8-130. Appeals from orders of the inspector; review by court.
   (a)   Appeals board. All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders
of the inspector pursuant to this article shall be heard and determined by the
zoning board of adjustment. If the zoning board of adjustment ("board of
adjustment") consists of more than five members, the chairman may designate
five members to hear appeals under this article. As the appeals body, the board
shall have the power to fix the times and places of its meetings, to adopt
necessary rules of procedure and any other rules and regulations which may be
necessary for the proper discharge of its duties. The board shall keep an
accurate record of all its proceedings.
   (b)   When appeal may be taken. An appeal may be taken by any person
aggrieved thereby, or by any officer, board or commission of the town, from a
final decision or an order of the inspector, unless a different method of
appeal is provided for herein. Any appeal shall be taken within ten days from
the rendering of the decision or service of the order, as the case may be, by
filing with the inspector and with the board of adjustment a written notice of
appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. The
notice of appeal must be accompanied by the appropriate fee, as established by
the town council in the annual operating budget.
   (c)   Duty of inspector upon the filing of an appeal. Upon the filing of any
notice of appeal, the inspector shall forthwith transmit to the board of
adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the final decision
or order appealed from was made. The inspector who made the decision or the
person currently occupying that position, if the decision maker is no longer
employed by the local government, shall be present at the hearing as a witness.
   (d)   Staying of action. When an appeal is from a decision or order of the
inspector refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, the
inspector's decision or order shall remain in force until modified or reversed.
When an appeal is from a decision or order of the inspector requiring the
person aggrieved to do any act or pay any fines, the appeal shall have the
effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the board, unless the
inspector certifies to the board, after the notice of appeal is filed with the
inspector, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of
which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of the inspector's
requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case, the
requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be
granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day's written notice to the
inspector, by the board of adjustment, or by a court of record upon petition
made pursuant to G.S. 160D-1208(d) and this section.
   (e)   Hearing of appeals. The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable
time for the hearing of all appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties,
and shall render its decision within a reasonable time. The provisions of the
Town of Cary Land Development Ordinance regarding notice of hearings do not
apply to the hearing before the board of adjustment. Any party may appear in
person or by agent or attorney. The board may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the decision or order appealed from, and may make any
decision and order as in its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to
that end it shall have all the powers of the inspector, but the concurring vote
of four members of the board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any
decision or order of the inspector. The board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, in any case when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
would result from carrying out the strict letter of this article, to adapt the
application of this article to the necessities of the case to the end that the
spirit of this article shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured,
and substantial justice done. A copy of the board's decision shall be served on
the appellant by the inspector.
   (f)   Petition to superior court.
   (1)   Every decision of the board of adjustment shall be subject to review
by proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
date of service of the decision of the board, but not otherwise.
   (2)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the inspector or a decision
rendered by the board of adjustment may petition the superior court for an
injunction restraining the inspector from carrying out the order or decision
and the court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction restraining
the inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The petition shall be
filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision.
Hearings shall be held in accordance with G.S. 160D-1208(b).
(Code 1982, § 5-214; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2010-Code-01, 3-10-
2010; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-2011; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
Sec. 8-131. Filing of notice of lis pendens.
   Lis pendens (a pending suit), in general terms, is a notice filed on public
records for the purpose of warning all persons that the title to certain
property is in litigation, and they are in danger of being bound by an adverse
judgment. Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing or order
pursuant thereto, a notice of lis pendens, with a copy of the complaint and
notice of hearing or order attached thereto, may be filed by the inspector in
the office of the clerk of superior court for the county, as provided in G.S.
1-120.2. The inspector shall serve a copy of the notice of lis pendens upon the
owners and parties in interest in the housing. The inspector may have the
notice of lis pendens canceled at such time as the housing is brought into
conformity with this article by sending to the clerk of superior court a notice
asking that the notice of lis pendens be canceled.
(Code 1982, § 5-215; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996)
Sec. 8-132. Methods of service of complaints and orders.
   (a)   Complaints or orders issued by the inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is
made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also
be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered
or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned
by the post office within 10 days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a
notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
premises affected.
   (b)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under these provisions. When service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected by the complaint or order.
(Code 1982, § 5-216; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 05-003, 2-24-2005;
Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
   State law reference—Similar provisions, G.S. 160D-1206(b).
Sec. 8-133. Costs a lien on premises; disposition of property.
   (a)   Lien. As provided by G.S. 160D-1203(7), the cost of any repairs,
alterations, or improvements, or of vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the inspector pursuant to this article
shall be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred.
Such lien shall be filed, having priority, and be collected in the same manner
as the lien for special assessments established by G.S. ch. 160A, art. 10 (G.S.
160A-216 et seq.). Such lien, if against real property located within the town
limits, is also a lien on any other real property of the owner located within
the town limits or within one mile thereof except for the owner's primary
residence. This additional lien is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment. All liens shall be filed in the office of the
register of deeds of the county where the property is located.
   (b)   Disposition. If the housing is removed or demolished by the inspector,
the inspector shall sell the materials of the housing, and any personal
property, fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to the housing, and
shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or
demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court
by the inspector, shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall
be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final
order or decree of the court.
(Code 1982, § 5-217; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-
2011; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
Sec. 8-134. Other remedies.
   Nothing contained herein or in any other part of this article shall be
construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and
declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary action or
otherwise; to enforce any provision of its charter, or its ordinances or
regulations; or to prevent or punish violations thereof, and the procedure
described herein shall be in addition and supplemental to the powers conferred
on the town by any other law.
(Code 1982, § 5-218; Ord. No. 96-012, 11-14-1996; Ord. No. 2011-Code-04, 6-16-
2011)
Chapter 9
CABLE TELEVISION*
Publisher's Note: Changes to this Chapter are under review by the Town Council:
Pending Amendment
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Theft of cable television service, G.S. § 14-118.5;
utility franchises, G.S. § 160A-319; cable television defined as public
enterprise, G.S. 160A-311(7); authority to contract for public enterprises,
G.S. 160A-312(a).
----------
Article I. In General
Secs. 9-1--9-18. Reserved.
Article II. Cable TV Franchises
Division 1. Generally
Sec. 9-19.   Purpose.
Sec. 9-20.   Definitions.
Secs. 9-21--9-43. Reserved.
Division 2. Grant of Franchise
Sec. 9-44.   Grant.
Sec. 9-45.   Franchise area.
Sec. 9-46.   Use of public rights-of-way.
Sec. 9-47.   Use of grantee facilities.
Sec. 9-48.   Franchise required.
Sec. 9-49.   Term of franchise.
Sec. 9-50.   Franchise nonexclusive.
Sec. 9-51.   Time is of the essence.
Sec. 9-52.   Law governs.
Sec. 9-53.   Severability.
Sec. 9-54.   Transfer of ownership or control.
Sec. 9-55.   Franchise renewal.
Sec. 9-56.   Police powers.
Sec. 9-57.   Franchise fees.
Sec. 9-58.   Forfeiture or revocation.
Sec. 9-59.   Receivership and foreclosure.
Sec. 9-60.   Equal opportunity policy.
Sec. 9-61.   Notices.
Sec. 9-62.   Failure to enforce, no waiver.
Sec. 9-63.   Rights reserved to the grantor.
Sec. 9-64.   Limits on recourse against the grantor.
Secs. 9-65--9-86. Reserved.
Division 3. Regulation of Franchise
Sec. 9-87.   Regulatory authority.
Sec. 9-88.   Supervision of the franchise.
Sec. 9-89.   Rates and charges.
Sec. 9-90.   Performance evaluation.
Secs. 9-91--9-108. Reserved.
Division 4. Bonds, Insurance and Indemnification
Sec. 9-109.   Performance bond and letter of credit.
Sec. 9-110.   Liability and insurance.
Sec. 9-111.   Indemnification.
Secs. 9-112--9-135. Reserved.
Division 5. Design and Construction Provisions
Sec. 9-136.   Authority to construct.
Sec. 9-137.   Construction and technical standards.
Sec. 9-138.   System construction schedule.
Sec. 9-139.   Extension of service.
Sec. 9-140.   Use of streets.
Sec. 9-141.   Erection, removal and common use of poles.
Sec. 9-142.   Construction reporting requirements.
Sec. 9-143.   Tests and performance monitoring.
Secs. 9-144--9-169. Reserved.
Division 6. Service Provisions
Sec. 9-170.   Services to subscribers and users.
Sec. 9-171.   Installations, connections and other grantee services.
Sec. 9-172.   Service calls and complaint procedures.
Sec. 9-173.   Continuity of service mandatory.
Sec. 9-174.   Protection of subscriber privacy.
Sec. 9-175.   Rights of individuals.
Secs. 9-176--9-203. Reserved.
Division 7. Books, Records and Reports
Sec. 9-204.   Books and records available to the grantor.
Sec. 9-205.   Reports required.
Sec. 9-206.   Records required.
Secs. 9-207--9-235. Reserved.
Division 8. Miscellaneous Provisions
Sec. 9-236.   Public notice.
Sec. 9-237.   Franchise applications.
Sec. 9-238.   Remedies.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 9-1--9-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. CABLE TV FRANCHISES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 9-19. Purpose.
   (a)   The town of Cary finds that the development of cable television
systems has the potential to provide great benefits for the people of Cary. The
town finds that the public convenience, safety and general welfare can best be
served by establishing a regulatory ordinance which delineates the principal
regulatory requirements for persons operating cable systems within the town. It
is the intent of this chapter to provide for and specify the means to secure
the interest and public purpose in these matters and any franchise issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this finding as an integral
part thereof.
   (b)   For these purposes, the following goals underlie the regulations
contained herein:
   (1)   Cable television services should be made available to the maximum
number of town residents.
   (2)   Any cable system should be capable of accommodating both the present
and reasonably foreseeable future cable television needs of residents of the
town.
   (3)   Any cable system should be improved and upgraded during the franchise
term so that the new facilities necessary for the operation of this system
shall be integrated to the maximum extent possible with existing facilities.
   (4)   Cable systems authorized by this chapter shall be responsive to the
needs and interests of the local community, and shall provide the widest
possible diversity of programming sources and services to the public.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-1, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-20. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent
with the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in
the plural number include the singular number. The word "shall" is mandatory
and "may" is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and
ordinary meaning:
   Basic cable service means any service tier which includes the retransmission
of local television broadcast signals.
   Cable service means the one-way transmission to subscribers of (i) video
programming (ii) other programming service; and subscriber interaction, if any,
which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or other
programming service.
   Cable system means a facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that
is designed to provide cable service which includes video programming and which
is provided to multiple subscribers within a community, but such term does not
include:
   (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
   (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public right of
way;
   (3)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part,
to the provisions of title II of the Communications Act, except that such
facility shall be considered a cable system (other than for purposes of section
621 (c)) of the communications act to the extent such facility is used in the
transmission of video programming directly to subscribers, unless the extent of
such use is solely to provide interactive on-demand services;
   (4)   An open video system that complies with section 653 of the
Communications Act; or
   (5)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating its
electric utility system.
   Cablecast signal means a nonbroadcast signal that originates within the
facilities of the cable communications system.
   Channel means a frequency band, which is capable of carrying either one
standard video signal, a number of audio, digital or other nonvideo signals or
some combination of such signals.
   Closed-circuit or institutional service means such video, audio, data and
other services provided to institutional users on an individual application
basis. These may include, but are not limited to, one-way video, two-way video,
audio or digital signals among institutions to residential subscribers.
   Commercial subscriber means a subscriber who receives a service in a place
of business where the service may be utilized in connection with a business,
trade or profession.
   Communications act means the communications act of 1934 as it may be
amended.
   Converter means an electronic device which converts signals to a frequency
not susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber,
and any channel selector which permits a subscriber to view all signals
delivered at designated converter dial locations at the set or by remote
control.
   Council means the council of the town of Cary.
   CPI shall mean the national percentum increase for the most recently
completed calendar year of the average consumer price index for all items as
published by the bureau of labor statistics of the United States department of
labor, subject to maximum limits as may be set forth within the franchise
agreement.
   Discrete channel shall mean a channel which can only be received by the
person and/or institution intended to receive signals on such channel.
   Downstream signal means a signal originating from or provided by a cable
television system to a subscriber terminal or other terminal including video,
audio, or digital signals or any other type of data or information for either
programs or other uses such as security alert services, etc.
   Drop shall mean a connection from feeder cable to the subscriber/user
television set, radio or other terminal.
   Educational access channel means any channel designated for noncommercial
educational access use.
   Fair market value means the price that a willing buyer would pay to a
willing seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in
the industry at the time.
   FCC means the federal communications commission.
   Franchise means the nonexclusive rights granted pursuant to this chapter to
construct, operate and maintain a cable system along the public ways within all
or a specified area in the town. Any such authorization, in whatever form
granted, shall not mean or include any license or permit or other
nondiscriminatory charge required for the privilege of transacting and carrying
on a business within the town as required by other ordinances and laws of the
town.
   Franchise area means the entire town, or portions thereof, for which a
franchise is granted under the authority of this chapter or the franchise. If
not otherwise stated in the franchise, the franchise area shall be the
corporate limits of the town, including all territory thereafter annexed to the
town.
   Franchise fee means the percentage, as specified by the town, of the
franchisee's gross revenues in exchange for the rights granted pursuant to this
chapter and the franchise.
   Government access channel means any channel specifically designated or
dedicated for noncommercial government access use.
   Grantee or franchisee means the natural person(s), partnership(s), domestic
and foreign corporation(s), association(s), joint venture(s), or organization
(s) of any kind which has been legally granted a franchise by the town, and its
lawful successor, transferee or assignee.
   Grantor means the town of Cary as represented by the town council acting
within the scope of its jurisdiction.
   Gross annual revenues or gross revenues means all revenues received directly
or indirectly from the operation of the cable system to provide cable service
in the town by the grantee, its affiliates, subsidiaries or any person in which
grantee has a financial interest. Gross revenue shall include, but not be
limited to:
   (1)   All cable service fees;
   (2)   franchise fees;
   (3)   Installation and reconnection fees;
   (4)   Upgrade and downgrade fees;
   (5)   Advertising revenue;
   (6)   Home shopping commissions;
   (7)   Converter and remote control rental fees;
   (8)   Lockout device fees; and
   (9)   Unless excluded under generally accepted accounting principles
("GAAP"), guides and late fees.
      Gross Revenues shall not include:
      a.   The revenues of any entity or Person where such revenues have been
included in grantee's gross revenues so as to preclude double imposition of
franchise fees;
      b.   Bad debt write-offs; or
      c.   Any taxes on services furnished by a grantee which are imposed upon
any Subscriber or User by the state, town or other governmental unit and
collected by the grantee on behalf of said governmental unit.
   Installation shall mean the connection of the system from feeder cable to
subscribers' terminals.
   Leased access channel, or commercial access channel means any channel
designated or dedicated for use by persons unaffiliated with the grantee, at
rates which are fair and reasonable.
   Monitoring means observing a communications signal, or the absence of a
signal, where the observer is not a party to the communication, whether the
signal is observed by visual or electronic means, for any purpose whatsoever.
   Narrowcasting shall mean the ability to distribute cable programming to a
particular segment or segments of the cable subscribers.
   Normal business hours means those hours during which most similar businesses
in the community are open to serve customers. In all cases, "normal business
hours" must include some evening hours at least one night per week and/or some
weekend hours.
   Normal operating conditions means those service conditions which are within
the control of the cable operator. Those conditions which are not within the
control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to, natural
disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and
severe or unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily
within the control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to,
special promotions, pay-per-view events rate increases, regular peak or
seasonal demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
   Operator shall mean the entity granted a franchise.
   Origination site means a location capable of transmitting audio-video
television signals to the operator's headend or other location as provided.
   OVS shall refer to open video system as defined by the federal
communications commission.
   Person means an individual, partnership, association, organization,
corporation or any other legal entity including any lawful successor transferee
of said individual, or entity.
   Plant mile means a linear mile of strand-bearing cable as measured on the
street or easement from pole to pole or pedestal to pedestal. In cases where
cable is on both sides of the street, only the cable on one side of the street
will be utilized in measuring a plant mile.
   Public access channel means any channel designated or dedicated for use by
the general public or noncommercial organizations which is made available for
noncommercial access use without charge on a first-come, first-served,
nondiscriminatory basis.
   Public way or public rights-of-way means the surface, the air space above
the surface, and the area below the surface of any public street, highway,
lane, path, alley, sidewalk, boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, park, parkways,
waterways, utility easements or other public right of way, including state and
private streets, or hereafter held by the town which shall entitle the town and
the company to the use thereof for the purpose of installing and maintaining
the company cable television system. No reference herein, or in any franchise,
to the "public way" shall be deemed to be a representation or guarantee by the
town that its title to any property is sufficient to permit its use for such
purpose, and the grantee shall, by its use of such terms, be deemed to gain
only such rights to use property in the town as the town may have the
undisputed right and power to give.
   Reasonable notice shall be written notice addressed to the grantee at its
principal office within the town or such other office as the grantee has
designated to the town as the address to which notice shall be transmitted to
it, which notice shall be certified and postmarked not less than seven business
days prior to that day in which the party giving such notice shall commence any
action which requires the giving of notice. In computing said seven business
days, town holidays shall be excluded.
   Resident means any person residing in the town as otherwise defined by
applicable law.
   Residential subscriber means a subscriber who receives a service in an
individual dwelling unit where the service is not to be utilized in connection
with a business, trade or profession.
   Sale shall include any sale, exchange or barter.
   School means any state accredited public or nonprofit educational
institution including primary and secondary schools, colleges and universities.
   Service interruption means the loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
   State means the state of North Carolina.
   Town means the town of Cary, North Carolina.
   Transfer means the disposal of the franchise by the grantee, directly or
indirectly, by gift, assignment, voluntary sale, merger, consolidation or
otherwise. "transfer" shall also mean a sale or fundamental corporate change of
or in grantee, including, but not limited to, a fundamental corporate change in
grantee's parent corporation or any entity having a controlling interest in
grantee, the sale of controlling interest in the grantee's assets, a merger,
including a merger of a subsidiary and parent entity, consolidation, or the
creation of a subsidiary or affiliate entity.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-3, 8-26-2004)
Secs. 9-21--9-43. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. GRANT OF FRANCHISE
Sec. 9-44. Grant.
   (a)   In the event that the town shall grant to grantees a nonexclusive,
revocable franchise to construct, operate, and maintain a cable system within
the town, said franchise shall constitute both a right and an obligation to
provide the services of a cable system as regulated by the provisions of this
chapter and the franchise. The franchise shall include by reference those
provisions of the grantee's "application for franchise" that are finally
negotiated and accepted by the town and grantee.
   (b)   The franchise shall be granted under the terms and conditions
contained herein, consistent with the town's Charter, Code of Ordinances, and/
or other applicable statutory requirements. In the event of conflict between
the terms and conditions of this chapter, the franchise, or the terms and
conditions on which the town can grant a franchise, the franchise shall
control.
   (c)   Any franchise granted by the town is hereby made subject to the
generally applicable, nondiscriminatory Code of Ordinances of the Town of Cary
as amended from time to time. Nothing in the franchise shall be deemed to waive
the requirements of the various generally applicable, nondiscriminatory codes
and ordinances of the town regarding permits, fees to be paid, or manner of
construction.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-4, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-45. Franchise area.
   The franchise area shall be the entire town, or portions thereof, for which
a franchise is granted.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-5, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-46. Use of public rights-of-way.
   For the purpose of operating and maintaining a cable system in the town, the
grantee may erect, install, construct, repair, replace, reconstruct and retain
in, on, over, under, upon, across and within the rights-of-way within the town
such wires, cables, conductors, ducts, conduits, vaults, manholes, amplifiers,
appliances, pedestals, attachments and other property and equipment as are
necessary to the operation of the cable system, provided, however, that grantee
complies with all design, construction and safety provisions contained in this
chapter, the franchise, and other applicable state and generally applicable,
nondiscriminatory local ordinances.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-6, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-47. Use of grantee facilities.
   No poles shall be erected by the grantee without prior approval of the town
and as permitted by town ordinances and regulations. However, no location of
any pole of the grantee shall be a vested right and such poles shall be removed
or modified by the grantee at its own expense whenever the town determines that
the public convenience would be enhanced thereby. The grantee shall utilize
existing poles and conduits, where possible. The town shall have the right,
during the life of the franchise, to install, subject to an agreement between
the parties upon the terms and conditions of such use, upon the poles owned by
the grantee, any wire and pole fixtures that are noninterfering and
noncompetitive with the cable system operations of the grantee. The town's
right to use grantee facilities is not transferable.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-8, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-48. Franchise required.
   No cable system shall be allowed to occupy or use the streets of the town or
be allowed to operate without a franchise.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-9, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-49. Term of franchise.
   The term of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be stated
in the franchise.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-10, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-50. Franchise nonexclusive.
   The franchises discussed herein are nonexclusive. The town specifically
reserves the right to grant at any time such additional franchises for a cable
system or OVS as it deems appropriate provided, however, no such additional
franchises, taken as a whole, shall be granted on terms or conditions more
favorable or less burdensome than in any franchise previously granted by the
town. To the extent allowable by law, any cable franchises granted by the town
shall contain similar terms and conditions with respect to franchise fees,
gross revenue base and service area.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-11, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-51. Time is of the essence.
   Whenever the franchise agreement shall set forth any time for an act to be
performed by or on behalf of the grantee, such time shall be deemed of the
essence and any failure of the grantee to materially perform within the time
allotted shall be sufficient ground for the town to invoke an appropriate
penalty, including possible revocation of the franchise, subject to notice and
a time to cure.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-12, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-52. Law governs.
   In any controversy or dispute under this chapter, the law of the state or
federal law, as appropriate, shall apply.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-12, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-53. Severability.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter or the franchise is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, or by any federal, state, or local statute
or regulation, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-14, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-54. Transfer of ownership or control.
   (a)   Any franchise granted hereunder cannot in any event be sold,
transferred, leased, assigned or disposed of, including but not limited to, by
force or voluntary sale, merger, consolidation, receivership or other means
without the prior consent of the town.
   (b)   The grantee shall promptly notify the town of any actual or proposed
change in, or transfer of, or acquisition by any other party of, control of the
grantee. The word "control" as used herein is not limited to major stockholders
but includes actual working control in whatever manner exercised. A rebuttable
presumption that a transfer of control has occurred shall arise upon the
disposal by the grantee, directly or indirectly, by gift, assignment, voluntary
sale, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of 50 percent or more at one time of
the ownership or controlling interest in the grantee.
   (c)   Every change, transfer, or acquisition of control of the grantee
requiring consent of the town shall make the franchise subject to cancellation
unless and until the town shall have consented thereto, which consent will not
be unreasonably withheld. For the purpose of determining whether it shall
consent to such change, transfer, or acquisition of control, the town may
inquire into the legal, financial, and technical qualifications of the
prospective controlling party, and the grantee shall assist the town in any
such inquiry.
   (d)   The town agrees that any financial institution having a pledge of the
franchise or its assets for the advancement of money for the construction and/
or operation of the franchise shall have the right to notify the town that it
or its designees satisfactory to the town will take control and operate the
cable system. Further, said financial institution shall also submit a plan for
such operation that will insure continued service and compliance with all
franchise obligations during the term the financial institution exercises
control over the system. The financial institution shall not exercise control
over the system for a period exceeding one year, unless extended by the town at
its discretion and during said period of time it shall have the right to
petition for transfer of the franchise to another grantee. If the town finds
that such transfer, after considering the legal, financial and technical
qualifications of the applicant are satisfactory, the town will transfer and
assign the rights and obligations of such franchise as in the public interest.
The consent of the town to such transfer shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (e)   The consent or approval of the town to any transfer of the grantee
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the town in and to
the streets, and any transfer shall, by its terms, be expressly subject to the
terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise.
   (f)   The town will approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise
prior to completion of construction of the proposed system, if guarantees for
timely and quality construction are provided by the transferee, as may be
reasonably requested by the town.
   (g)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the prior approval of the
town shall not be required for any assignment to any person controlling,
controlled by or under the same common control as the grantee.
   (h)   Any approval by the town of the assignment or transfer of the
franchise shall be contingent upon the prospective grantee becoming a signatory
to the franchise.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-15, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-55. Franchise renewal.
   Upon completion of the term of any franchise granted under this chapter, the
town may grant or deny renewal of the franchise of the grantee in accordance
with the provisions of the communications act. The grantee shall own the cable
system, but shall have no property right in the public rights-of-way upon the
completion of the franchise term.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-16, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-56. Police powers.
   (a)   In accepting the franchise, the grantee acknowledges that its rights
hereunder are subject to the police power of the town (as provided in G.S.
160A-174) to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to the safety and
welfare of the public; and it agrees to comply with all applicable general laws
and ordinances enacted by the town pursuant to such power.
   (b)   Any conflict between the provisions of this chapter or the franchise
and any other present or future lawful exercise of the town's police powers
shall be resolved in favor of the latter, except that any such exercise that is
not of general application in the jurisdiction or applies exclusively to
grantee or cable systems which contains provisions inconsistent with this
chapter shall prevail only if, upon such exercise, the town finds an emergency
exists constituting a danger to health, safety, property or general welfare and
such exercise is mandated by law.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-17, 8-26-2004; Ord. No. 2010-Code-02, 3-10-2010)
Sec. 9-57. Franchise fees.
   (a)   Because the town finds that:
   (1)   The streets of the state and town to be used by the grantee in the
operation of its system within the boundaries of the franchise area are
valuable public properties acquired and maintained by the state and town at
great expense to its taxpayers; and
   (2)   The grant to the grantee to the said streets is a valuable property
right without which the grantee would be required to invest substantial capital
in rights-of-way costs and acquisitions; and
   (3)   The administration of this chapter or the franchise imposes upon the
town additional regulatory responsibility and expense; a grantee of any
franchise hereunder shall pay to the town a franchise fee of five percent of
gross annual revenues. This annual franchise payment shall be in addition to
any other generally applicable, nondiscriminatory fee and commence as of the
effective date of the franchise. The town shall be furnished a statement of
said payment by a certified public accountant or officer of the grantee,
reflecting the total amounts of gross annual revenues and the above charges and
computations for the period of July 1 to June 30 as provided in section
9-205(9) of this chapter.
   (b)   If grantee's subscribers are offered what is, in effect, a discount or
discounts for "bundled" services (i.e., cable service and some other, noncable
goods or service), grantee shall not disproportionately discount the fees
charged for cable service, relative to the discount in the fees charged for the
other, noncable goods or services with the intent to minimize franchise fees
payable to the town. This provision is only meant to apply where an overall
discount on bundled services, or discounts on both cable service and other,
noncable goods or services, is offered. Therefore, this provision does not
apply when only a discount is offered on a noncable good or service, without
any discount in the cable service. This provision is also not intended to
prevent grantee from giving reasonable discounts for cable service, including,
but not limited to, any discounts offered to new subscribers or to subscribers
who upgrade the cable service they receive.
   (c)   This payment shall be in addition to any other generally applicable,
nondiscriminatory lawful tax or payment owed to the governments or other taxing
jurisdiction by the grantee. Payment of the franchise fee made by grantee to
the town shall be in addition to any and all taxes which are now or may be
required hereafter to be paid by any federal, state, or local law.
   (d)   Acceptance by the town. No acceptance of any payment by the town shall
be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the
town may have for further or additional sums payable as a franchise fee under
this chapter or for the performance of any other obligation of the grantee.
   (e)   Failure to make required payment. In the event that any franchise
payment or recomputed amount is not made on or before the dates specified
herein, grantee shall pay as additional compensation an interest charge,
computed from such due date, at the annual rate equal to the commercial prime
interest rate of the town's primary depository bank during the period that such
unpaid amount is owed.
   (f)   The franchise fee shall be payable quarterly to the town of Cary. The
grantee shall file a complete and accurate statement, certified by an officer
of the grantee, of all gross revenue within the town during the period for
which said quarterly payment is made, and said statement and payment shall be
made to the town not later than 45 days after the expiration of each calendar
quarter. Quarterly computation dates are the last day in the months of March,
June, September and December.
   (g)   The town shall have the right to inspect the grantee's books and
records pertinent to the computation of the franchise fee and the right to
audit and to recompute any amounts determined to be payable under this chapter.
Audits shall be conducted by town staff or an independent auditor chosen by the
town. If, after audit and recomputation, an undisputed unpaid fee is owed to
the town, it shall be paid within 30 days following written notice of the
grantee by the town which notice shall include a copy of the audit report. The
town's audit expenses shall be borne by the town unless the audit discloses an
underpayment of franchise fees in an amount equal to or exceeding five percent
of the total franchise fee payment for the audit period, in which case the
costs of the audit shall be borne by the grantee as a cost incidental to the
enforcement of this franchise. Any additional undisputed amounts due to the
town as a result of an audit shall be paid by the grantee to the town within 60
days following written notice to the grantee by the town of the underpayment,
which notice shall include a copy of the audit report.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-18, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-58. Forfeiture or revocation.
   (a)   Grounds for revocation. The town reserves the right, subject to the
provisions of subsection (b) and (c) of this section
9-58, to revoke any franchise granted hereunder and rescind all rights and
privileges associated with the franchise in the following circumstances, each
of which shall represent a default and breach under this chapter and the
franchise grant:
   (1)   If the grantee shall default in the performance of any of the material
obligations under this chapter or the franchise.
   (2)   If the grantee shall fail to provide or maintain in full force and
effect the liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond as
required herein.
   (3)   If the grantee shall violate any orders or rulings of any regulatory
body having jurisdiction over the grantee relative to this chapter or the
franchise which results in a default of any of the material obligations under
this chapter or the franchise.
   (4)   If the grantee practices any fraud upon the town or pattern of fraud
on cable subscribers.
   (5)   The grantee's construction schedule is delayed later than the schedule
contained in the franchise or beyond any extended date set by the town or is
not remedied through liquidated damages.
   (6)   The grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts or
is adjudged bankrupt.
   (7)   Failure to restore system-wide or area specific service after 96
consecutive hours of interrupted service, except when approval of such
interruption is obtained from the town or if the grantee ceases to operate and
provide services for any reason within the control of the grantee.
   (8)   Material misrepresentation of fact in the application for or
negotiation of the franchise or any extension or renewal thereof.
   (b)   Effect of circumstances beyond control of grantee. The grantee shall
not be declared at fault or be subject to any sanction under any provision of
this chapter in any case, in which performance of any such provision is
prevented for reasons beyond the grantee's control. A fault shall not be deemed
to be beyond the grantee's control if committed by a corporation or other
business entity in which the grantee holds a controlling interest whether held
directly or indirectly.
   (c)   Procedure prior to revocation.
   (1)   The town shall make written demand that the grantee comply with any
such requirement, limitation, term, condition, rule or regulation or correct
any action deemed cause for revocation. If the failure, refusal or neglect of
the grantee continues for a period of 30 days following such written demand or,
in any case where such compliance cannot reasonably be completed within 30
days, other such longer period of time as reasonably set by the town, the town
shall place its request for termination of the franchise upon a regular council
meeting agenda. The town shall cause to be served upon such grantee at least
seven business days prior to the date of such council meeting, a written notice
of this intent to request such termination, and the time and place of the
meeting, notice of which shall be published by the town clerk at least once,
seven business days before such meeting according to the advertising
requirements in Section
2-2 of the Town Code.
   (2)   The council shall hear any persons interested therein at the public
hearing, and shall determine in its reasonable judgment, whether any failure,
refusal or neglect by the grantee was with just cause.
   (3)   If such failure, refusal or neglect by the grantee was with just
cause, as defined by the town in its judgment reasonably exercised, the council
shall direct the grantee to comply within such time and manner and upon such
terms and conditions as are reasonable.
   (4)   If the council shall determine such failure, refusal, or neglect by
the grantee was without just cause, then the council may, by resolution,
declare that the franchise of the grantee shall be terminated and bond
forfeited unless there be compliance by the grantee within 90 days.
   (d)   Disposition of facilities. In the event a franchise renewal is denied
(and all appeals exhausted), is revoked or otherwise terminated, the town may
require grantee to remove its facilities from town rights-of-way.
   (e)   Restoration of property. In the event grantee removes its plant,
structures and equipment, the grantee shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation that shall be made by it and shall leave all public property,
rights-of-ways, private property, and places in as reasonably good condition as
that prevailing prior to the grantee's removal of its equipment and appliances
without affecting the electrical or telephone cable wires or attachments. The
town shall inspect and approve the condition of the public rights-of-ways and
public places and cables, wires, attachments, and poles after removal. The
liability, indemnity, insurance and performance bond as provided herein shall
continue in full force and effect during the period of removal and until full
compliance by the grantee with the terms and conditions of this subsection,
this chapter and the franchise.
   (f)   Restoration by town; reimbursement of costs. In the event of a failure
by the grantee to complete any work required by sections
9-46 and
9-47 and/or (e) above, or any other work required by town law or ordinance
within the time as may be established and to the satisfaction of the town, the
town may cause such work to be done and the grantee shall reimburse the town
the cost thereof within 30 days after receipt of an itemized list of such
costs, or the town may recover such costs through the performance bond or
letter of credit provided by grantee. The town shall be permitted to seek legal
and equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (g)   Extended operation. Upon either the denial or renewal (including the
exhaustion of all appeals) or revocation of a franchise, the town may negotiate
with the grantee to continue to operate the system for a period of time from
the date of such expiration or revocation, or until such time as is mutually
agreed upon. The grantee shall, as trustee for its successor in interest,
continue to operate the cable system under the terms and conditions of this
chapter and the franchise and to provide the regular subscriber service and any
and all of the services that may be provided at the time.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-19, 8-26-2004; Ord. No. 2014-Code-01, 1-9-2014)
Sec. 9-59. Receivership and foreclosure.
   (a)   Termination by insolvency. The franchise granted hereunder shall, at
the option of the town, cease and terminate 120 days after the appointment of a
receiver or receivers or trustee or trustees to take over and conduct the
business of the grantee, whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy
or other action or proceeding, unless such receivership or trusteeship shall
have been vacated prior to the expiration of said 120 days, or unless:
   (1)   Such receivers or trustees shall have, within 120 days after their
election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions of
this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant hereto, and the receivers or
trustees within said 120 days shall have remedied all defaults under the
franchise; and
   (2)   Such receivers, or trustees shall, within said 120 days, execute an
agreement duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby such receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by each and
every term, provision and limitation of the franchise herein granted.
   (b)   Termination by judicial action. In the case of a foreclosure or other
judicial sale of the plant, property and equipment of the grantee or any part
thereof, including or excluding the franchise, the town may serve notice of
termination upon the grantee and the successful bidder at such sale, in which
event the franchise and all rights and privileges of the grantee granted
hereunder shall cease and terminate 30 days after service of such notice,
unless:
   (1)   The town shall have approved the transfer of the franchise, in the
manner this chapter provides; and
   (2)   Such successful bidder shall have covenanted and agreed with the town
to assume and be bound by all the terms and conditions of the franchise.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-20, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-60. Equal opportunity policy.
   Grantee shall comply with all equal opportunity provisions enacted by
federal and state authorities, as well as all such provisions contained in this
chapter and the franchise.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-21, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-61. Notices.
   All notices from grantee to the town pursuant to this chapter and the
franchise shall be to the town manager or his/her designee. Grantee shall
maintain with the town, throughout the term of the franchise, an address for
service of notices by mail. Grantee shall also maintain with the town a local
office and telephone number for the conduct of matters related to the franchise
during normal business hours. The grantee shall be required to advise the town
of such address(es) and telephone numbers and any changes thereof.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-22, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-62. Failure to enforce, no waiver.
   The grantee shall not be excused from complying with any of the terms and
conditions of this chapter or the franchise by any failure of the town upon any
one or more occasions to insist upon or to seek compliance with any such terms
or conditions.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-23, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-63. Rights reserved to the grantor.
   (a)   Right of inspection of records. The town shall have the right to
inspect the books, records, reports, maps, plans and financial statements of
the grantee relating to operations within the town as reasonably necessary to
the enforcement of the chapter and the franchise on reasonable notice during
normal business hours.
   (b)   Right of inspection of construction. The town shall have the right to
inspect all construction or installation work performed subject to the
provisions of the franchise and to make such tests as it shall find necessary
to ensure compliance with the terms of this chapter and other pertinent
provisions of the law, provided that such inspections and/or tests shall be
conducted in a manner which minimizes interference with the grantee's normal
operations. The grantee shall make a good faith effort to assist the town with
such inspections and/or tests.
   (c)   Right of inspection of property. At all reasonable times, grantee
shall permit examination by any duly authorized representative of the town of
the cable system, together with any appurtenant property of grantee situated
within or without the town.
   (d)   Right of intervention. The town shall have the right of intervention
in any suit or proceeding to which the grantee is a party and in which the town
shall have a material interest. The grantee shall not oppose such intervention
by the town.
   (e)   Right to require removal of property. Upon denial of renewal (and
exhaustion of all appeals) of the franchise, or upon its revocation or
expiration, as provided for herein, the town shall have the right to require
the grantee to remove, at its own expense, all portions of the cable system
required by public necessity from all streets and public ways within the town.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-24, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-64. Limits on recourse against the grantor.
   The provisions of 47 USC 555a shall apply in any court proceeding involving
any claim against the town, or any official, member, employee, or agent of the
town's, arising from the regulation of cable service or from a decision of
approval or disapproval with respect to a grant, renewal, transfer or amendment
of a franchise.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-25, 8-26-2004)
Secs. 9-65--9-86. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. REGULATION OF FRANCHISE
Sec. 9-87. Regulatory authority.
   (a)   The town shall exercise appropriate regulatory authority under the
provisions of this chapter and applicable law. This authority shall be vested
in the town council and administered through the town manager or designee in
order to provide day-to-day administration and enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter and any franchise granted hereunder, and to carry out the town's
responsibilities with regard to cable service and cable systems.
   (b)   The town reserves the right to exercise the maximum plenary authority
allowed by state and federal law, regarding rates, technical standards and
consumer protection.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-26, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-88. Supervision of the franchise.
   (a)   The town shall have the following regulatory responsibility:
   (1)   Administration and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter and
any franchise granted hereunder.
   (2)   Award, renewal, extension or termination of a franchise pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter, the franchise, and other applicable law.
   (3)   Consent prior to sale or transfer of any franchise granted hereunder.
   (4)   Performance evaluation.
   (b)   The town also reserves the right to perform the following functions:
   (1)   Develop objectives and coordinate activities related to the operation
of government channels.
   (2)   Approve procedures and standards for public, government and
educational access operations and services, including the use of dedicated
channels and sharing of public facilities.
   (3)   Review and make recommendations on plans for expansion,
interconnection and growth of cable services.
   (4)   Review and make recommendations on the possibility of integrating
cable systems with other town, state or regional telecommunications networks.
   (5)   Formulate and recommend long-range telecommunications policy for the
town, and determine the future cable-related needs and interests of the
community.
   (6)   Provide the administrative effort necessary for the conduct of
performance evaluations, and any other activities required for the
administration of this chapter or the franchise.
   (7)   Monitor grantee's process for handling citizen complaints and
periodically inspect and analyze the records related to such complaints.
   (8)   Receive applications for rate increases if applicable and provide
staff assistance in the analysis and recommendations thereto.
   (9)   Monitor grantee's adherence to operational standards, service
requirements and line extension policies.
   (10)   Assure compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
   (11)   Arrange tests and analysis of equipment and performance, as needed to
insure compliance with this chapter and the franchise.
   (12)   Assure continuity in service.
   (13)   Receive for examination all data and reports required by this
chapter.
   (c)   There may be established a citizen's advisory commission entitled the
cable television advisory commission, which shall consist of between three and
seven members representing the population characteristics of the residents of
the town. Members may be appointed by the town council for terms up to three
years. No person shall be appointed as a member of the commission for more than
two consecutive terms. The commission shall adopt bylaws governing its
procedures and actions on matters coming before it.
   (d)   The responsibilities of the cable television advisory commission may,
as set by the town, include but not be limited to the following:
   (1)   Monitor and advise the town council and town administration on the
provisions of the town's cable television services ordinance and related
ordinances.
   (2)   Prepare an annual report to the council.
   (3)   Cooperate with the town and the grantee in fulfilling its
responsibilities herein.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-27, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-89. Rates and charges.
   (a)   Authority to regulate. The town may regulate grantee's rates and
charges consistent with applicable federal and state law. The term "regulate"
means the town may take any step consistent with applicable federal and state
law.
   (b)   Manner of regulation. Without limiting the foregoing, and except as
inconsistent with applicable law:
   (1)   The town may require grantee to submit to the town current rates as of
the effective date.
   (2)   The grantee may not change a rate or charge that is subject to the
town's regulation without the town's prior approval, except as applicable law
otherwise provides.
   (c)   Rate and services schedule. The grantee shall maintain on file with
the town an up-to-date rate schedule of all subscriber and user rates, fees and
charges for all cable services and products provided. The schedule shall be
updated any time there is a change in the rate schedule. grantee shall file any
revised rate schedule with the town clerk in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter. In addition, the grantee shall give the town 30 days advance
written notice of any change in services offered or rates.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-28, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-90. Performance evaluation.
   (a)   Special evaluation sessions may be held at any time during the term of
the franchise at the request of the town.
   (b)   All evaluation sessions shall be open to the public and announced in a
newspaper of general circulation in accordance with public notice, as provided
by this Code.
   (c)   Topics which may be discussed at any scheduled or special evaluation
session may include, but not be limited to system performance and construction,
grantee compliance with this chapter and the franchise, customer service and
complaint response, subscriber privacy, services provided, programming offered,
service rate structures, franchise fees, penalties, free or discounted
services, applications of new technologies, judicial and FCC filings, and line
extensions.
   (d)   During the review and evaluation by the town, the grantee shall fully
cooperate with the town and shall provide such information and documents
prepared by grantee in the ordinary course of business as the town may need to
reasonably perform its review.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-29, 8-26-2004)
Secs. 9-91--9-108. Reserved.
DIVISION 4. BONDS, INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION
Sec. 9-109. Performance bond and letter of credit.
   (a)   Performance bond. The town may require the grantee, as part of a
franchise agreement, to obtain and maintain during the entire term of the
franchise and any extensions and renewals thereof, at its cost and expense, and
file with the town, a corporate surety bond in an amount specified in this
chapter or the franchise to guarantee the faithful performance of the grantee
of all its obligations provided under this chapter and the franchise. Failure
to timely obtain, file and maintain said bond shall constitute a substantial
violation within the meaning of this section.
   (b)   Conditions. The performance and/or payment bond shall provide the
following conditions:
   (1)   There shall be recoverable by the town jointly and severally from the
principal and surety, any and all fines and liquidated damages to the town and
any and all damages, losses, costs, and expenses' suffered or incurred by the
town resulting from the failure of the grantee to: faithfully comply with the
provisions of this chapter and the franchise; franchise fee not in dispute; pay
any claims, liens or generally applicable, nondiscriminatory taxes due the town
which arise by reason of the construction, operation, maintenance or repair of
the Cable System. Such losses, costs and expenses shall include but not be
limited to attorney's fees and other associated expenses.
   (2)   The total amount of the bond shall be forfeited in favor of the town
in the event:
      a.   The grantee abandons the cable system at any time during the term of
the franchise or any extension thereto; or
      b.   The grantee assigns the franchise without appropriate, lawful
consent of the town, when such consent is required.
   (c)   Reduction of bond. Upon written application by the grantee, the town
may, at its sole option, permit the amount of the bond to be reduced or waive
the requirements for a performance bond subject to the conditions set forth
below. Reductions granted or denied upon application by the grantee shall be
without prejudice to the grantee's subsequent applications or to the town's
right to require the full bond at any time thereafter. However, no application
shall be made by the grantee within one year of any prior application.
   (d)   Letter of credit. The town may require the grantee, as part of a
franchise agreement, to obtain, maintain and file with the town an irrevocable
letter of credit from a financial institution licensed to do business in the
state in an amount specified in the franchise, naming the town as beneficiary.
The form and contents of such letter of credit shall be approved by the town
and shall be released only upon expiration of the franchise or upon the
replacement of the letter of credit by a successor grantee. Failure to obtain
the letter of credit within the time specified within the franchise shall
constitute a substantial violation within the meaning of this section.
   (e)   Conditions. The town may draw upon the letter of credit if the grantee
fails to: faithfully comply with the material provisions of this chapter and
the franchise; comply with all lawful orders, permits and directives of any
town agency or body having jurisdiction over its acts or defaults pursuant to
the franchise; pay fees due to the town; or pay any lawful claims, liens or
generally applicable, nondiscriminatory taxes due the town which arise by
reason of the construction, operation, maintenance or repair of the cable
system.
   (f)   Use of performance bond and letter of credit. Prior to drawing upon
the letter of credit and/or the performance bond for the purposes described in
this section, the town shall notify the grantee in writing that payment is due
and the grantee shall have ten days from the receipt of such written notice to
make a full and complete payment or request a hearing before council. If the
grantee does not make the payment within ten days or request a hearing before
council, the town may withdraw the amount thereof, with interest and penalties,
from the letter of credit and the performance bond.
   (g)   Notification. Within three days of a withdrawal from the letter of
credit and/or performance bond, the town shall send to the grantee, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, written notification of the amount,
date and purpose of such withdrawal.
   (h)   Replenishment of letter of credit and performance bond. No later than
30 days after mailing to the grantee by certified mail notification of a
withdrawal pursuant to subsection (f) above, the grantee shall replenish the
letter of credit and/or performance bond in an amount equal to the amount so
withdrawn. Failure to make timely replenishment of such amount to the letter of
credit and/or performance bond shall constitute a substantial violation of this
chapter.
   (i)   Nonrenewal, alteration, or cancellation of letter of credit or
performance bond. The performance bond and/or letter of credit required in the
franchise shall be in a form satisfactory to the town and shall require 30 days
written notice of any nonrenewal, alteration or cancellation to both the town
and the grantee. The grantee shall, in the event of any such cancellation
notice, obtain, pay all premiums for, and file with the town, written evidence
of the issuance of replacement bond or policies within 30 days following
receipt by the town or the grantee of any notice of cancellation.
   (j)   CPI increase. To offset the effects of inflation, the amounts of the
bond and letter of credit provided for herein are subject to reasonable CPI
increases at the end of every three-year period of the franchise, applicable to
the next three-year period, upon the determination of the town.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-30, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-110. Liability and insurance.
   (a)   Prior to commencement of construction, but in no event later than 60
days after the effective date of the franchise and thereafter continuously
throughout the duration of the franchise and any extensions or renewals
thereof, the grantee shall furnish to the town certificates of insurance,
approved by the town, for all types of insurance required under this section.
Failure to furnish said certificates of insurance in a timely manner shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (b)   Certificates of insurance obtained by the grantee in compliance with
this section shall be filed and maintained with the town clerk during the term
of the franchise.
   (c)   Neither the provisions of this section nor any damages recovered by
the town hereunder shall be construed to or limit the liability of the grantee
under any franchise issued hereunder for damages.
   (d)   All insurance policies maintained pursuant to this chapter or the
franchise shall contain the following, or a comparable, endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this insurance policy may not be
cancelled by the insurance company nor the intention not to renew be stated by
the insurance company until 30 days after receipt by the town manager, by
registered mail, of a written notice of such intention to cancel or not to
renew.
   (e)   All contractual liability insurance policies maintained pursuant to
this chapter or the franchise shall include the provision of the following hold
harmless clause:
The grantee agrees to indemnify, save harmless and defend the town, its agents,
servants, and employees, and each of them against and hold it and them harmless
from any and all lawsuits, claims, demands, liabilities, losses and expenses,
including court costs and reasonable attorney's fees for or on account of
injury to any person, or any death at any time resulting from such injury, or
any damage to any property, which may arise or which may be alleged to have
arisen out of or in connection with the work covered by this agreement and
performed or caused to be performed by grantee. The foregoing indemnity shall
apply except if such injury, death or damage is caused by the negligence or
other fault of the town, its agents, servants, or employees or any other person
indemnified hereunder.
   (f)   All insurance policies provided under the provisions of the franchise
shall be written by companies authorized to do business in the state, and
approved by the state board of insurance.
   (g)   At any time during the term of the franchise, the town may request and
the grantee shall comply with such request, to name the town as an additional
named insured for all insurance policies written under the provisions of this
chapter or the franchise.
   (h)   To offset the effects of inflation and to reflect changing liability
limits, all of the coverages, limits, and amounts of the insurance provided for
herein are subject to reasonable CPI increases at the end of every three-year
period of the franchise, applicable to the next three-year period, upon the
determination of the town; provided, however, in no event shall the town
require amounts in excess of what is customarily provided by cable system
operators in North Carolina.
   (i)   General liability insurance. The grantee shall maintain, and by its
acceptance of any franchise granted hereunder specifically agrees that it will
maintain throughout the term of the franchise, general liability insurance
insuring the grantee in the minimum of:
   (1)   Five hundred thousand dollars for property damage per occurrence;
   (2)   One million dollars for property damage aggregate;
   (3)   One million dollars for personal bodily injury to any one person; and
   (4)   Two million dollars bodily injury aggregate per single accident or
occurrence.
   (j)   Such general liability insurance must include coverage for all of the
following: comprehensive form, premises-operations, explosion and collapse
hazard, underground hazard, products/completed operations hazard, contractual
insurance, broad form property damage, and personal injury.
   (k)   Automobile liability insurance. The grantee shall maintain, and by its
acceptance of any franchise granted hereunder specifically agrees that it will
maintain throughout the term of the franchise, automobile liability insurance
for owned, nonowned, or rented vehicles in the minimum amount of:
   (1)   One million dollars (for bodily injury and consequent death per
occurrence.
   (2)   One million dollars for bodily injury and consequent death to any one
person.
   (3)   Five hundred thousand dollars for property damage per occurrence.
   (l)   Worker's compensation and employer's liability insurance. The grantee
shall maintain and by its acceptance of any franchise granted hereunder
specifically agrees that it will maintain throughout the term of the franchise,
worker's compensation and employer's liability, valid in the state, in the
minimum amount of:
   (1)   Statutory limit for worker's compensation.
   (2)   One hundred thousand dollars for employer's liability.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-31, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-111. Indemnification.
   (a)   Grantee shall, at its sole cost and expense, fully indemnify, defend
and hold harmless the town, its officers, boards and commissions, and town
employees against any and all claims, suits, actions, liability and judgments
for damages (including but not limited to expenses for reasonable legal fees
and disbursements and liabilities assumed by the town in connection therewith):
   (1)   To persons or property, in any way arising out of or through the acts
or omissions of grantee, its servants, agents or employees, or which shall be
caused by grantee's negligence pursuant to the provisions of the franchise.
   (2)   Arising out of any claim for invasion of the right of privacy, for
defamation of any person, firm or corporation, or the violation or infringement
of any copyright, trademark, trade name, service mark or patent, or of any
other right of any person, firm or corporation (excluding claims arising out of
or relating to public, educational, and government access programming) with the
respect to services provided or caused to be provided by grantee.
   (3)   Arising out of grantee's failure to comply with the provisions of any
federal, state, or generally applicable, nondiscriminatory local statute
ordinances or regulation applicable to grantee in its business hereunder.
   (b)   The foregoing indemnity is conditioned upon the town:
   (1)   Promptly notifying grantee of any claim or legal proceeding which
gives rise to such right;
   (2)   Affording grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully control
any defense, compromise, settlement, resolution or disposition of such claim or
proceeding; and
   (3)   Fully cooperating in the defense of such claim and making available to
grantee all such information under its control relating thereto.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-32, 8-26-2004)
Secs. 9-112--9-135. Reserved.
DIVISION 5. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS
Sec. 9-136. Authority to construct.
   Within 90 days of the adoption of an initial franchise agreement, Franchisee
shall meet with the town Manager and/or his/her designee to review the status
of the initial system's construction plan and 18 month construction schedule.
Within 30 days following this meeting, the grantee shall apply for any needed
contracts for use of poles. Within 30 days after completion of the make-ready
survey identifying the routes of the system facility, the grantee shall apply
for all additional licenses from the state, town, or other necessary parties,
such as the railroads for crossing under or over their property. In any event,
all necessary applications for permits, licenses, certificates and
authorizations shall be applied for in a timely fashion so that such filing and
processing shall not interfere with or cause delay with the construction
scheduled as outlined in the franchise. Failure to make such timely application
and timely filing shall constitute a substantial violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-33, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-137. Construction and technical standards.
   (a)   Grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system in a
manner consistent with all laws, ordinances, construction standards,
governmental requirements and FCC technical standards. The grantee, through the
system, shall provide uniform, strong signals which are free from any
significant distortion and interference. The system shall be designed,
constructed, operated and maintained for 24 hours a day continuous operation.
The system shall produce, for reception on subscribers' receivers which are in
good working order, either monochrome or color pictures (providing the receiver
is color capable) which are free from any significant interference or
distortion which would cause any material degradation of video or audio
quality.
   (b)   The grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain its system
in accordance with the following minimum standards:
   (1)   The system will be spaced to permit a minimum of 750 MHz operation.
   (2)   The grantee shall maintain its cable system in a manner which will
continue to enable it to add new services and associated equipment.
   (c)   Prior to the erection of any towers, poles or conduits, the grantee
shall make available to the town and other appropriate parties for approval a
concise description of the facilities proposed to be erected or installed,
including engineering drawings, if required, together with a map and plans
indicating the proposed location of all such facilities. No erection or
installation of any tower, pole, underground conduit, or fixture shall be
commenced by any person until approval thereof has been received from the town,
consistent with all generally applicable, nondiscriminatory town ordinances and
regulations and timeframes, including articles VI and VII of chapter
28 of the town's code of ordinances in effect as of the date of any franchise
granted pursuant to the provisions hereof.
   (d)   Any contractor proposed for work of construction, installation,
operation, maintenance, and repair of system equipment must be properly
licensed under laws of the state, and all generally applicable,
nondiscriminatory local ordinances, and shall be subject to the terms of this
chapter, and all applicable federal and state laws.
   (e)   The grantee's system and associated equipment erected by the grantee
within the town shall be so located as to cause minimum interference with the
proper use of streets, alleys, and other public ways and places, and to cause
minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners who adjoin any of the said streets, alleys or other public ways and
places. No pole or other fixtures placed in any public ways by the grantee
shall be placed in such a manner as to interfere with normal travel on such
public way.
   (f)   The town does not guarantee the accuracy of any maps showing the
horizontal or vertical location of existing substructures. In public rights-of-
way, where necessary, the location shall be verified by excavation.
   (g)   Construction, installation, operation, upgrade, and maintenance of the
cable system shall be performed in an orderly manner. All cables and wires
shall be installed, where possible, parallel with electric and telephone lines.
Multiple cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel and bundled with
due respect for engineering considerations.
   (h)   Grantee shall at all times comply with:
   (1)   National Electrical Safety Code (National Bureau of Standards);
   (2)   National Electrical Code (as adopted by the state);
   (3)   Applicable FCC or other federal, state and generally applicable,
nondiscriminatory local regulations; and standards as set forth in this chapter
or the franchise;
   (4)   Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices; and
   (5)   The relevant sections in the town of Cary's Design Specifications and
Detail Manual in effect as of the date of any franchise granted pursuant to the
provisions hereof.
In no event shall grantee or its contractors leave open any excavation within
the town but outside the town's rights-of-ways for more than ten days from when
the excavation was made. Further, grantee shall bury all drops or other cable
within ten days, except when ground conditions do not permit grantee to do so.
When grantee is unable to comply with this deadline due to ground conditions,
grantee shall bury the drop or other cable as soon as ground conditions permit
grantee to do so.
   (i)   In any event, the system shall not endanger or interfere with the
safety of persons or property in the franchise area or other areas where the
grantee may have equipment located.
   (j)   Any antenna structure used in the cable system shall comply with
construction, marking, and lighting of antenna structure standards as required
by federal and state law or regulation.
   (k)   All worker facilities, conditions, and procedures that are used during
construction, installation, operation, and maintenance of the cable system
shall comply with the standards of the occupational safety and health
administration.
   (l)   RF leakage shall be checked at reception location for emergency radio
services to prove measurable interference signal combinations are possible.
Stray radiation shall be measured adjacent to any proposed aeronautical
navigation radio sites to prove no measurable interference to airborne
navigational reception in the normal flight pattern. FCC rules and regulations
shall govern.
   (m)   The grantee shall maintain equipment capable of providing standby
power for a minimum of eight hours for the headend.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-34, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-138. System construction schedule.
   The franchise shall specify the initial construction schedule which shall be
approved by the town before initial construction begins.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-35, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-139. Extension of service.
   The franchise shall specify extension of service requirements.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-36, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-140. Use of streets.
   (a)   Underground installations. All installations shall be underground in
those areas of the town where required by a generally applicable,
nondiscriminatory town ordinance. While grantees are encouraged to always place
plant underground, in areas where either telephone or electric utility
facilities are above ground at the time of installation, grantee may install
its service above ground, provided that at such time as those facilities are
required to be placed underground by the town or are placed underground, the
grantee shall likewise place its services underground without additional cost
to the town or to the individual subscriber so served with the town. If the
town compensates any other person for relocating or moving its facilities in
any way then grantee shall be similarly compensated, in a proportionate manner.
Where not otherwise required to be placed underground by this chapter or the
franchise, the grantee's system shall be located underground at the request of
the adjacent property owner, provided that the excess cost over the aerial
location shall be borne by the property owner making the request. All cable
passing under the roadway shall be installed in conduit.
   (b)   Permits. Prior to construction or alteration, however, the grantee
shall obtain all required permits.
   (c)   Interference with persons, improvements, public and private property
and utilities. The grantee's system and facilities, including poles, lines,
equipment and all appurtenances, shall be located, erected and maintained so
that such facilities shall:
   (1)   Not endanger or interfere with the health, safety or lives of persons;
   (2)   Not interfere with any improvements the town, county or state may deem
proper to make;
   (3)   Not interfere with the free and proper use of public streets, alleys,
bridges, easements or other public rights-of-ways, places or property, except
to the minimum extent possible during actual construction or repair;
   (4)   Not interfere with the rights and reasonable convenience of private
property owners, except to the minimum extent possible during actual
construction or repair; and
   (5)   Not obstruct, hinder or interfere with any gas, electric, water or
telephone facilities or other utilities located within the town.
   (d)   Restoration to prior condition. In case of any disturbance of public
or private pavement, sidewalk, driveway, lawn, landscape, or other surfacing,
the grantee shall, at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by the
town and consistent with the franchise, replace and restore all paving,
sidewalk, driveway, landscaping, or surface of any street or alley disturbed,
in as reasonably good a condition as, or better than, before said work was
commenced and in a good workmanlike, timely manner in accordance with standards
for such work set by the town in the franchise. Unless prevented by
circumstances beyond the grantee's control, such restoration shall be completed
within no more than ten business days after the damage is incurred.
   (e)   Relocation of the facilities. In the event that at any time during the
period of the franchise, the town, county or state shall lawfully elect to
alter or change the grade of any street, alley or other public ways, the
grantee, upon reasonable notice by the proper authority, shall remove or
relocate as necessary its poles, wires, cables, underground conduits, manholes
and other fixtures at its own expense as detailed in the franchise agreement.
If the town compensates any person for relocating or moving its facilities in
any way, then grantee shall be similarly compensated, in a proportionate
manner.
   (f)   Cooperation with building movers. The grantee shall, on the request of
any person holding a building moving permit issued by the town, temporarily
raise or lower its wire to permit the moving of buildings. The expense of such
temporary removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person
requesting the same, and the grantee shall have the authority to require such
payment in advance. The grantee shall be given not less than 15 working days'
advance notice to arrange for such temporary wire changes.
   (g)   Tree trimming. The grantee shall have the authority, except when in
conflict with existing town ordinances, to trim any trees upon and overhanging
public rights-of-way so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in
contact with the cable system, except that at the option of the town, such
trimming may be done by it, or under its supervision and direction, at the
reasonable expense of the grantee.
   (h)   Easements. All necessary easements over and under private property
shall be arranged for by the grantee.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-37, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-141. Erection, removal and common use of poles.
   (a)   No poles shall be erected by the grantee without prior approval of the
town with regard to location, height, types and any other pertinent aspect.
However, no location of any pole or wireholding structure of the grantee shall
give rise to a vested interest and such poles or structures shall be removed or
modified by the grantee at its own expense whenever the town determines that
the public convenience would be enhanced thereby.
   (b)   Where poles already exist for use in serving the town are available
for use by grantee, but it does not make arrangements for such use, the town
may require grantee to use such poles and structures if it determines that the
public convenience would be enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available
to grantee are just and reasonable as reasonably determined by grantee.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-38, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-142. Construction reporting requirements.
   (a)   Within 30 days of the granting of an initial franchise pursuant to
this chapter, the grantee shall provide the town with a written progress report
detailing work completed to date. Such report shall include a description of
the progress in applying for any necessary agreements, licenses, or
certifications and any other information the town manager may deem necessary.
The content and format of the report will be determined by the town manager and
may be modified at his/her discretion. Other reports may be required in the
franchise.
   (b)   Such written progress reports shall be submitted to the town on a
quarterly basis throughout the entire construction process. The town manager
may require more frequent reporting if he/she determines it is necessary to
better monitor the grantee's progress.
   (c)   Not more than 72 hours and not less than 24 hours prior to the
commencement of any system construction, the grantee shall provide door hangers
or similar direct notice to all residents of the area to be under construction,
which shall describe the activity that will be taking place.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-39, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-143. Tests and performance monitoring.
   (a)   The grantee shall conduct technical tests of the cable system as
required by the FCC, and shall provide copies to the town within 60 days of
completion of such tests.
   (b)   Such periodic tests shall be made at the test points as shall be
required by the FCC and the franchise.
   (c)   Whenever there have been multiple, similar complaints made or when
there exists other evidence, which, in the judgment of the town, casts doubt on
the reliability or quality of the grantee's system, the town shall have the
right and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze, and report on the
performance of its system. The grantee shall reasonably determine the nature
and extent of testing required to make an adequate evaluation of system
performance. Reports on such tests shall be delivered to the town no later than
14 days after the town formally notifies the grantee and shall include the
following information: the nature of the complaints which precipitated the
special tests; what system component was tested; the equipment used, and
procedures employed in said testing; the results of such tests; and methods by
which said complaints were resolved. Said tests and analyses shall be performed
by qualified system personnel. Qualified system personnel shall certify all
records of the special tests and forward same to the town with a report
interpreting the results of the tests and recommending what actions should be
taken by the grantee. The town shall bear the costs of all special tests unless
the tests reveal items of noncompliance with FCC technical standards. If the
cause of the problem has not been identified by the tests or resolved, and
complaints continue, the grantee shall use its best efforts to resolve the
problem in a timely manner.
   (d)   The town shall have the right to employ qualified consultants if
necessary or desirable at the town's expense to assist in the administration of
this or any other section of this chapter or the franchise.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-40, 8-26-2004)
Secs. 9-144--9-169. Reserved.
DIVISION 6. SERVICE PROVISIONS
Sec. 9-170. Services to subscribers and users.
   (a)   Concurrently with the activation of the cable system in the town, the
grantee shall provide all services to subscribers as described herein and in
the franchise.
   (b)   The grantee shall provide and maintain service on the basic tier, at a
minimum, the following access channel(s) whose purposes are outlined below
according to the terms of the franchise:
   (1)   Government access channel which shall be a specifically designated
channel for local noncommercial governmental use and shall be managed,
scheduled and programmed exclusively by the town.
   (2)   Educational channel which shall be a specifically designated channel
for noncommercial use by regional public and private school authorities, and
shall be managed, scheduled and programmed exclusively by them.
   (3)   Public access channel, which will be a specifically designated channel
available on a first-come, first-served, nondiscriminatory basis for
noncommercial use.
   (c)   The grantee shall fully provide, at a minimum, services, facilities
and equipment for public, educational and government access as indicated in the
franchise.
   (d)   Emergency override. The grantee shall comply with the EAS requirements
of the FCC.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-41, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-171. Installations, connections and other grantee services.
   (a)   Standard installations. Standard installation shall consist of a
service not exceeding 125 aerial feet from a single point or pedestal
attachment to the customer's residence. Standard installations will be
performed within seven business days after an order has been placed. Service in
excess of 125 aerial feet and concealed wiring shall be charged for the costs
which exceed those of a standard installation. The desire of the subscriber as
to the point of entry into the residence shall be observed whenever reasonably
possible. Runs in building interiors shall be as unobtrusive as reasonably
possible. The grantee shall use due care in the process of installation and
shall repair any damage to the subscriber's property caused by said
installation. Such restoration shall be completed within no more than ten
business days after the damage is incurred.
   (b)   Deposits. The grantee shall comply with any state or federal
regulations regarding interest on any deposit required by the grantee.
   (c)   Antennas and antenna switches. The grantee shall not, as a condition
to providing cable service, require any subscriber or potential subscriber, to
remove any existing antenna structures for the receipt of over-the-air
television signals. The grantee shall install, upon the request of the
subscriber a RF or antenna switch for a reasonable charge or a fee set by the
FCC.
   (d)   Parental control devices. The grantee shall provide to the potential
subscriber, as part of its promotional literature, information concerning the
availability of a parental control device for use by a subscriber. The grantee
reserves the right to require a reasonable deposit for the use of this device,
as set forth in the rate schedule. The lockout device parental control
capability described herein shall be made available to all subscribers
requesting it beginning on the first day that any cable service is provided.
   (e)   Reconnection. grantee shall restore service to customers wishing
restoration of service provided customer shall first satisfy any previous
obligations owed, including any established reconnect fee.
   (f)   Free disconnection. Subscribers shall have the right to have cable
service disconnected without charge unless otherwise provided by applicable
law. A refund of unused service charges shall be paid to the customer within 45
days from the date of termination of service.
   (g)   Delinquent accounts. grantee shall use its best efforts to collect on
delinquent subscriber accounts. At the grantee's option, service will not be
disconnected if a delinquent customer agrees at any time to be placed on a
regular payment plan to clear the account. In all cases, the grantee shall
provide the customer with at least ten business days written notice prior to
disconnection.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-42, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-172. Service calls and complaint procedures.
   Grantee shall maintain a convenient bill payment location in the town for
receiving subscriber payments and handling billing questions, which shall be
appropriately staffed to handle such tasks. The grantee shall comply with the
standards and requirements for customer service set forth below and shall
comply with all applicable regulations relating to customer service
obligations, including 47 CFR 76.1602 and any amendments to 47 CFR 76.309
during the term of this franchise, that impose higher or additional customer
service standards on a cable operation.
   (1)   Cable system office hours and telephone availability:
      a.   Grantee will maintain a local, toll-free or collect call telephone
access line which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours a day, seven
days a week:
         1.   Trained grantee representatives will be available to respond to
customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
         2.   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by a
service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained grantee representative on the next business day.
      b.   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90
percent of the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly
basis.
      c.   Grantee will not be required to acquire equipment or perform surveys
to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above unless an
historical record of complaints indicates a clear failure to comply.
      d.   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a busy
signal less than three percent of the time.
      e.   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at
least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
   (2)   Outages and service calls. Under normal operating conditions, each of
the following standards will be met no less than 95 percent of the time
measured on quarterly basis:
      a.   Excluding conditions beyond the control of grantee, grantee will
begin working on "service interruptions" as follows: (i) on such interruptions
affecting less than 12 subscribers promptly and in no event later than 24 hours
after the interruption becomes known; and (ii) on such interruptions affecting
12 or more subscribers promptly and in no event later than six hours after the
interruption becomes known. grantee must begin actions to correct other service
problems the next business day after notification of the service problem.
      b.   The "appointment window" alternatives for installations, service
calls and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four hour time block during normal business hours. Grantee may
schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of the customer.
      c.   Grantee may not cancel an appointment with a customer after the
close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
      d.   If grantee's representative is running late for an appointment with
a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary,
at a time which is convenient for the customer.
   (3)   Communications between grantee and subscribers:
      a.   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than
either:
         1.   The subscriber's next billing cycle following resolution of the
request or 30 days, whichever is earlier, or
         2.   The return of the equipment supplied by grantee if cable service
is terminated.
      b.   Credits. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
subscriber's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
   (4)   Review by town. The town may review and monitor unresolved customer
complaints.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-43, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-173. Continuity of service mandatory.
   (a)   It shall be the right of all subscribers to receive continuous,
uninterrupted service insofar as their financial and other obligations to the
grantee are honored.
   (b)   In the event that the grantee elects to rebuild, modify or sell the
system, or the town gives notice of intent to terminate or fails to renew its
franchise, the grantee shall cooperate with the town or new grantee or operator
in maintaining continuity of service to all subscribers. During such period,
grantee shall be entitled to the revenues for any period during which it
operates the system, and shall be entitled to reasonable costs for the services
when it no longer operates the system.
   (c)   Failure to provide continuity. In the event the grantee fails to
operate the system for seven consecutive days without prior approval of the
town or without just cause, the town may, at its option, operate the system or
designate an operator until such time as grantee restores service under
conditions acceptable to the town or a permanent operator is selected. If the
town is required to fulfill this obligation for the grantee, the grantee shall
reimburse the town for all reasonable costs or damages in excess of revenues
from the system received by the town that are the result of the grantee's
failure to perform.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-44, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-174. Protection of subscriber privacy.
   Protection of subscriber privacy mandatory. grantee shall at all times
protect the privacy of subscribers, as required by applicable federal and state
laws and the franchise.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-45, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-175. Rights of individuals.
   Nondiscrimination required. grantee shall comply at all times with all other
applicable federal and state laws and regulations, and all executive and
administrative orders relating to nondiscrimination which are hereby
incorporated and made part of this chapter by reference.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-46, 8-26-2004)
Secs. 9-176--9-203. Reserved.
DIVISION 7. BOOKS, RECORDS AND REPORTS
Sec. 9-204. Books and records available to the grantor.
   (a)   The town shall have the right to inspect at any time during normal
business hours, pertinent books, records, maps, plans, gross revenues, service
complaint logs, performance test results and other like materials of the
grantee which relate to the enforcement of the franchise.
   (b)    grantee shall permit any duly authorized representative of the town
to examine any "as built" maps and other records kept or maintained by grantee
or under its control concerning the operations, affairs, transactions or
property of grantee which are pertinent to the enforcement of the franchise.
   (c)   If any of such maps or records are not kept in the town, grantee
shall, upon request, have the maps or records delivered to the town or
grantee's local office for such inspection.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-47, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-205. Reports required.
   The grantee shall file with the town at the end of the grantee's fiscal year
unless otherwise specified:
   (1)   Regulatory communications. Any material filings with the FCC and any
technical reports required by the FCC, including but not limited to annual
proof of performance tests and results; and any material filings with any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction over any
matter affecting operation of grantee's system shall be submitted upon request
to the town.
   (2)   Facilities report. A report setting forth the physical miles of plant
construction and plant in operation during the fiscal year shall be submitted
to the town upon request. Such report shall also contain any necessary
revisions to the system maps filed with the town. Such maps shall provide
detailed drawings of where the cable strand is located within the town.
   (3)   Construction reports. Quarterly construction reports shall be sent to
the town until construction of the initial cable system is completed as
specified in section
9-140(a) and (b) of this chapter.
   (4)   Proof of performance tests. Proof of performance test results shall be
supplied to the town upon request.
   (5)   Tests required by town. Tests required by the town as specified in
section
9-143(c) of this chapter shall be submitted within 30 days of notification.
   (6)   Change in service. A report on any change in programming service or
channel or other service shall be provided to the town 30 days prior to
implementation.
   (7)   Proof of bonds, letter of credit and insurance. grantee shall
initially submit to the town any performance bond, letter of credit and
certificate of insurance required by this chapter or the franchise and shall
also provide written notice of renewal or change in the performance bond,
letter of credit or insurance.
   (8)   Shareholder report. If the grantee is a publicly traded company, then
grantee shall provide, a copy of its annual shareholder report.
   (9)   Financial and ownership reports. The following financial reports for
the franchise area shall be submitted, upon request to the town:
      a.   An ownership report, indicating all persons, who at any time during
the preceding year did control or benefit from an interest in the franchise of
ten percent or more.
      b.   An initial list of the officers and members of the board of
directors of grantee and of any parent corporation and notification of any
changes.
   (10)   Franchise fee report. A report prepared by a certified public
accountant on the grantee's gross revenues, detailed by category and franchise
fees for the period July 1 to June 30, shall be provided to the town annually
by August 15.
   (11)   Operational reports. An annual report regarding the total number of
subscribers, with a breakdown of subscribers for basic and standard tiers if
not included in any other reports, and a summary of new services offered, and a
summary of complaints received and how they were handled.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-48, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-206. Records required.
   The grantee shall at all times maintain for inspection a set of plans,
records and "as built" maps showing the exact location of all cable system
equipment installed or in use in the town, exclusive of subscriber service
drops.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-49, 8-26-2004)
Secs. 9-207--9-235. Reserved.
DIVISION 8. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 9-236. Public notice.
   Public notice shall be provided as required by state law.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-50, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-237. Franchise applications.
   (a)   Applicants for a franchise or OVS license shall submit to the town a
written application utilizing the standard format provided by the town, at the
time and place designated by the town for accepting applications. The
application shall be complete and shall include all applicable fees.
   (b)   In awarding a franchise, the town shall allow the applicant's cable
system a reasonable period of time to become capable of providing cable service
to all households in the franchise area and may require adequate assurance that
the cable operator will provide adequate public, educational, and governmental
access channel capacity, facilities, or financial support; and qualifications
to provide cable service.
   (c)   A fee in the amount of $7,000.00 shall be paid by each applicant at
the time of application for an initial franchise which fee shall be in the form
of cash, certified check, or money order to defer the cost of studying,
investigating, and otherwise processing such application and which shall be in
consideration thereof and not refundable or returnable in whole or in part. To
offset the effects of inflation, the amount of the fee provided for herein is
subject to reasonable increase in accord with the annual rate of inflation per
the CPI.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-52, 8-26-2004)
Sec. 9-238. Remedies.
   (a)   If the town, in its judgment, determines that a grantee has breached
or violated any provision of a franchise agreement or ordinance, or this
chapter, the town shall give the grantee written notice of the breach or
violation. The notice shall inform the grantee of the possible application of
the relevant liquidated damages listed in subsection (b) below.
   (b)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (f) below, the town may impose
the following liquidated damages against a grantee for a breach or violation of
any provision of a franchise agreement or ordinance, or this chapter:
   (1)   Failure to restore damaged property to better or original condition,
$500.00 per day plus cost of restoration if not completed within ten business
days from receipt of notice from the town.
   (2)   Failure to bury drops or other cables as required in section
9-137(h) of this chapter, $500.00 per day from two business days after the date
of notice by the town.
   (3)   Failure to complete system construction or conversion as outlined in
the franchise, $250.00 per day, up to $5,000.00 per month.
   (4)   Failure to complete all plant extensions as required by thisfranchise,
$100.00 per day beginning two business days from receipt of notice from the
town.
   (5)   Failure to resolve multiple similar unresolved customer complaints,
unless beyond the franchisee's control, $500.00 per day in the aggregate
beginning two business days from receipt of notice from the town.
   (6)   Failure to remove or relocate affected cable system before
construction begins due to change in street grade or lines or water/wastewater/
storm water lines, $500.00 per day beginning two business days from receipt of
notice from the town.
   (7)   Failure to comply with the material provisions of this chapter,
franchise, or applicable state or federal law, $500.00 per day beginning two
business days from receipt of notice from the town.
   (c)   Such liquidated damages may be chargeable against grantee's
performance bond or letter of credit.
   (d)   The town retains the right to reduce or waive any of the above-listed
liquidated damages.
   (e)   The imposition of any liquidated damages shall be in addition to and
not a limitation upon the other penal provisions of the Town Code of Ordinances
or other applicable law, including revocation of a franchise pursuant to this
chapter, or other statutorily or judicially imposed penalties. No decision by
the town to invoke any remedy under the franchise, this chapter, or any
statute, law or ordinance shall preclude the availability of any other such
remedy.
   (f)   Any grantee who receives notice of violation of a provision of this
chapter or franchise or that liquidated damages may be imposed for failure to
remedy a breach or violation by the relevant time frame set forth in subsection
(b) above may, within ten days of receipt of such notice, appeal the notice of
violation or decision to impose liquidated damages to the town council. No
action to collect any liquidated damages, including charging them against a
performance bond or letter of credit, shall be commenced during that ten day
period. The appeal must be made in writing to the town attorney, and must state
the grounds upon which grantee believes there was no material breach or
violation, and that liquidated damages should not be imposed. The town council
will hear and make the final administrative determination on any such appeal.
If an appeal is timely filed, no action to collect any liquidated damages,
including charging them to a performance bond or letter of credit, will be
taken until the town council has ruled on the merits of the appeal and grantee
has failed to appeal or take other legal action regarding the liquidated
damages before a court of competent jurisdiction, which grantee must do within
60 days of the town council's decision.
(Ord. No. 04-009, § 6-53, 8-26-2004)
Chapter 10
CEMETERIES*
----------
   *State law references— Cemeteries generally, G.S. Ch. 65; municipal
cemeteries, Article 17 of G.S. 160A and Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 10-1.   Definitions.
Sec. 10-2.   Purpose.
Sec. 10-3.   Offensive substances.
Sec. 10-4.   Conduct of persons within the cemetery.
Sec. 10-5.   Speed of vehicles.
Sec. 10-6.   Plantings and floral arrangements.
Sec. 10-7.   Closing hours.
Secs. 10-8—10-36. Reserved.
Article II. Burial Easements
Sec. 10-37.   Responsibilities.
Secs. 10-38—10-66. Reserved.
Article III. Interments
Sec. 10-67.   Restrictions.
Sec. 10-68.   Opening and closing of graves.
Sec. 10-69.   Hours of interment.
Sec. 10-70.   Grave specifications.
Sec. 10-71.   Grave liners.
Sec. 10-72.   Marking new grave sites.
Sec. 10-73.   Vaults, tombs or mausoleums above ground.
Sec. 10-74.   Stones, plantings or obstacles.
Sec. 10-75.   Tents and other private property.
Sec. 10-76.   Record of interments and removals.
Sec. 10-77.   Cemetery maintenance.
Secs. 10-78—10-95. Reserved.
Article IV. Old Section
Sec. 10-96.   Generally.
Sec. 10-97.   Regulations.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 10-1. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Cemetery shall mean Hillcrest Cemetery.
   Landmark designation shall mean an individual building, structure, site, or
object that has historical, architectural, archeological, or cultural
significance and integrity and has been recognized by official designation for
its importance.
   New section shall mean that part or section of Hillcrest Cemetery,
consisting of sections J and K, which the town of Cary acquired in the year
1977, by deed recorded in Book 2509, at page 507, of the Wake County, North
Carolina, Registry, on June 6, 1977.
   Old section shall mean all those parts or sections of Hillcrest Cemetery,
consisting of sections A through I and sections L through N which the Town of
Cary owns in fee simple, other than the new section as defined above.
   Person shall mean any individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership or other legal entity.
(Code 1982, § 7-2; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-3(a)(1—5), 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-
Code-02, 1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-2. Purpose.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of operating, maintaining,
regulating and controlling the Hillcrest Cemetery, which is owned by the town.
The "new section," as defined in section
10-1, shall be regulated by this chapter, and the "old section," as defined in
section
10-1, shall continue to be operated and maintained as described herein.
   Hillcrest Cemetery has received a landmark designation and is recognized as
an important historic resource worthy of preservation. Any substantial design
changes to the cemetery's structural and landscape elements, including but not
limited to grave markers, entrance markers, fences, gates, roads, walkways,
green space and trees, may not be altered, restored, moved, remodeled, or
reconstructed so that a change in design, material, or outer appearance occurs
unless and until a certificate of appropriateness is obtained from the Town of
Cary Historic Preservation Commission or its successors.
(Code 1982, § 7-3; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-2, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02, 1-
30-2014; Ord. No. 2015-Code-005, 10-22-2015)
Sec. 10-3. Offensive substances.
   No person shall deposit, or cause to be deposited, any trash, filth or
unclean or offensive substance in the cemetery, including but not limited to
bottles, cans, garbage, glass, plaster, nails, paint, oil, human or animal
waste, as well as any other substance which may be or could become offensive,
annoying, unaesthetic or toxic and possibly injurious to health in any way.
(Code 1982, § 7-5; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-27, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02,
1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-4. Conduct of persons within the cemetery.
   (a)   All persons when within the cemetery are reminded that the grounds
thereof are sacredly dedicated to the interment and repose of the dead and
respectful observance of the decorum is expected and required.
   (b)   No person shall take any animal into, or permit any animal to enter, a
town-owned cemetery, unless that animal is a service animal individually
trained to provide assistance to an individual with a disability.
   (c)   No person shall drive any vehicle on or over any plot lot or walkway
within the cemetery.
   (d)   No person shall use the cemetery as a playground or parking place,
make loud noises of any kind, discharge any firearms (provided that firearms
may be discharged in case of military funerals and Memorial Day exercises), or
remain within or enter the cemetery after sundown without first having secured
permission from the public works director or designee. Persons using the
cemetery shall comply with Town of Cary Code of Ordinances,
Ch. 22, Article IV, Offenses Involving Public Peace and Order.
   (e)   All persons, including those providing services within the boundaries
of the cemetery shall comply with this ordinance.
(Code 1982, §§ 7-6, 7-8; Ord. No. 80-4, §§ 6.1-22, 6.1-25, 1-24-1980; Ord. No.
2014-Code-02, 1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-5. Speed of vehicles.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle in any town-owned cemetery in excess
of 15 miles per hour.
(Code 1982, § 7-7; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-24, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02,
1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-6. Plantings and floral arrangements.
   (a)   No person shall plant or maintain any tree, flower, shrub or ground
cover or sow seed of any kind in the town cemetery.
   (b)   The town reserves the right to trim, prune, exclude or remove from any
lot any tree, planting, plant, flowers, floral arrangements or shrubbery that
is unsightly or detrimental by reason of roots, branches or otherwise to
adjacent walks, roads, or renders access to any grave lot inconvenient, or that
detracts from the general appearance of the cemetery.
   (c)   All cut flowers shall be removed when they become wilted, impaired, or
unsightly. If flowers are not removed by the owners, then they may be removed
by the public works director or designee. Any containers left at the graveside
after the flowers have served their usefulness may be removed by the public
works director or designee.
(Code 1982, §§ 7-9, 7-10; Ord. No. 80-4, §§ 6.1-20, 6.1-23, 1-24-1980; Ord. No.
2014-Code-02, 1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-7. Closing hours.
   The town cemetery shall be closed from 8:00 p.m. until 8:00 a.m. from April
1 through August 31 and from 6:00 p.m. until 8:00 a.m. from September 1 through
March 31. No person shall enter the cemetery while it is closed without the
permission of the public works director or designee.
(Code 1982, § 7-11; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-21, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 94-012, § 1,
5-12-1994; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02, 1-30-2014)
Secs. 10-8--10-36. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. BURIAL EASEMENTS
Sec. 10-37. Responsibilities.
   (a)   Intent. While the town operates and maintains the cemetery, it grants
easement interests in the individual burial plots to private parties.
Currently, all available burial plots are subject to such easements, meaning
the town does not have the ability to grant additional leases to burial plots.
The intent of this ordinance is to outline the rules and regulations by which
the holders of the existing burial easements maintain and transfer said
easements going forward.
   (b)   Individuals seeking to be interred in the cemetery are granted an
easement for burial purposes. All such burial easements are subject to the
rules and regulations of the town.
   (c)   Reconveyance by easement holder. In order to properly manage the new
sections of the cemetery, the town must know, at all times, the identity of the
legal owner of each burial easement. The public records of the Wake County
Register of Deeds shall be used for that purpose. If the legal owner of a
burial easement wishes to convey the easement, the grantee must record the
conveying instrument in the office of the Wake County Register of Deeds within
fifteen (15) days of the execution of the instrument, and a copy of the
registered instrument must be provided to the Cary Town Clerk within fifteen
(15) days of recordation.
   (d)   Any burial easement deed shall include the following language: This
conveyance is subject to the condition subsequent that the Town of Cary, its
successors or assigns, shall have the right to terminate all rights, interest
and title of the grantee and all their successors and assigns in this easement,
if (1) all subsequent instruments of conveyance are not registered with the
Wake County Register of Deeds within fifteen (15) days after the execution of
the said instrument, and (2) the Town Clerk, Town of Cary, is not provided a
copy of the recorded instrument within fifteen (15) days after recordation.
(Code 1982, § 7-23; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-7, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02,
1-30-2014; Ord. No. 2019-Code-03, 9-26-2019; Ord. No. 2022-Code-05, 11-17-2022)
Secs. 10-38--10-66. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. INTERMENTS
Sec. 10-67. Restrictions.
   (a)   Generally. All interments in lots shall be restricted to members of
the family, relatives of the owners, or such other persons as the easement
owner may choose to admit. Prior to interment, the owner or his authorized
representative shall authorize such burial by executing an authorization-for-
burial form obtained from the town clerk.
   (b)   All interments and disinterments shall be in accordance with Wake
County Health Department regulations and North Carolina General Statutes.
   (c)   The usage of each lot shall be limited to one of the following:
   (1)   The interment of one human body; or
   (2)   The interment of one human body and one cremation urn with human
remains; or
   (3)   The interment of one or two cremation urns with human remains.
(Code 1982, § 7-37; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-10, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 83-16, § 1,
10-13-1983; Ord. No. 2010-Code-02, 3-10-2010; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02, 1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-68. Opening and closing of graves.
   The town shall not be responsible for the opening or closing of graves for
any purpose, and the town shall not assume any financial responsibility for the
opening or closing of graves.
(Code 1982, § 7-38; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-11, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02,
1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-69. Hours of interment.
   Burial services shall be scheduled generally between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Code 1982, § 7-39; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-12, 1-24-1980)
Sec. 10-70. Grave specifications.
   The width of graves in the cemetery shall be at least three inches greater
than the box width on each side. A minimum of 18 inches of soil shall be placed
over the liner and all graves shall be made approximately level with the lot.
(Code 1982, § 7-40; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-13, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02,
1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-71. Grave liners.
   Concrete, steel or fiberglass grave liners shall be used for all burials in
the cemetery. This requirement may not be waived in any situation.
(Code 1982, § 7-41; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-14, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2015-Code-003,
7-9-2015)
Sec. 10-72. Marking new grave sites.
   (a)   A temporary marker shall be placed at the gravesite at time of
interment. A permanent marker is required within 12 months of burial. Should
the temporary marker become broken or deteriorated before the installation of
the permanent marker, the town may remove the temporary marker at any time.
   (b)   Monuments, footstones or other appropriate grave markings shall have
mowing borders around the base of at least three inches and shall not exceed
the grave width or encroach on the grave of other owners.
   (c)   All monuments, headstones and footstones shall be erected under the
supervision of the public works director or designee. All persons shall clean
the work site of all unused materials or debris upon completion. If unused
material or debris is left at the work site, the public works director or
designee will notify the responsible party and request that corrective action
be taken. If a monument is incorrectly set, it shall be removed or reset at the
cost of the owner.
   No monuments or markers shall be set without first notifying the public
works director or designee.
(Code 1982, § 7-42; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-15, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02,
1-30-2014; Ord. No. 2015-Code-003, 7-9-2015)
Sec. 10-73. Vaults, tombs or mausoleums above ground.
   No new vaults, tombs or mausoleums above the ground shall be permitted in
the cemetery.
(Code 1982, § 7-43; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-16, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2015-Code-003,
7-9-2015)
Sec. 10-74. Stones, plantings or obstacles.
   (a)   No person shall place or cause to be placed on any lot in the cemetery
any stone, planting or obstacle, other than markers, monuments, headstones or
footstones as described in section
10-72. Placing masonry or brick wall or other enclosure around a lot or lots or
around a grave, shall not be permitted.
   (b)   These requirements shall apply to the designated new sections and the
old section of the cemetery. The town shall not be responsible for maintenance
of existing masonry or brick wall or other enclosures.
(Code 1982, § 7-44; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-17, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 89-31, § 1, 3-
9-1989; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02, 1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-75. Tents and other private property.
   Funeral homes shall erect tents for funerals. Funeral homes must remove
these tents within seven days after the funeral. The town assumes no
responsibility for any private equipment due to damage from wind, rain, snow,
fire or other causes.
(Code 1982, § 7-45; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-18, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02,
1-30-2014)
Sec. 10-76. Record of interments and removals.
   The town clerk shall keep a complete record of all interments and removals
from the town cemetery. The record shall include the section of the cemetery,
the lot number, size and location of graves on the lot, the name of the
deceased and the date of such action.
(Code 1982, § 7-46; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-19, 1-24-1980)
Sec. 10-77. Cemetery maintenance.
   (a)   Funeral homes are responsible for gravesite maintenance during the
first six months after burial. Within those six months, if a grave space sinks
below surrounding ground, becomes eroded or otherwise becomes a problem due to
lack of proper restoration or stabilization, the public works director or
designee shall notify the funeral director and request that corrective action
be taken within ten days.
   (b)   The easement owner is responsible for maintaining any monument,
headstone or footstone. A certificate of appropriateness must be obtained from
the Wake County Historic Preservation Commission or its successors, if it is
determined that the monument, headstone or footstone needs to be in any way
altered, restored, moved, remodeled, or reconstructed so that a change in
design, material, or outer appearance occurs.
   (c)   Only the Town or its designee shall perform mowing, sodding and
seasonal maintenance. As part of maintenance, crews shall collect and dispose
of all non-permanent items, including wilted flowers, faded and worn artificial
flowers and flags, and empty containers. The town shall also trim, prune and
remove any existing vegetation or ground coverings in conflict with the
cemetery ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2014-Code-02, 1-30-2014)
Secs. 10-78—10-95. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. OLD SECTION
Sec. 10-96. Generally.
   The old section shall be subject to all the provisions of this chapter which
are not in conflict with the regulations provided in section
10-97.
(Code 1982, § 7-58; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-5, 1-24-1980)
Sec. 10-97. Regulations.
   The following regulations shall apply only to the old section of Hillcrest
Cemetery:
   (1)   Upon the dissolution of Hillcrest Cemetery, a nonprofit corporation,
the town accepted the old section for maintenance only, but with the specific
understanding that the town shall not become involved in the development and
sale of lots in the old section of cemetery property.
   (2)   The town shall make available to any interested citizen those maps and
records delivered to the town by Hillcrest Cemetery association, but shall not
in any way guarantee the accuracy of said maps and records.
   (3)   The town shall assume no responsibility for determining the location
of family graves, lots or plots or the opening or closing of grave sites used
by persons owning or claiming ownership of graves, lots or plots.
   (4)   The town shall make available all materials and records delivered to
the town by Hillcrest Cemetery association, but shall take no position in a
determination of the accuracy of such records or possible conflicts between
different individuals or families claiming ownership or rights.
(Code 1982, § 7-59; Ord. No. 80-4, § 6.1-4, 1-24-1980; Ord. No. 2014-Code-02,
1-30-2014)
Chapter 11
RESERVED
 
Chapter 12
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND EMERGENCY SERVICES*
----------
   State law references—Emergency management, G.S. Ch. 166A; ordinances on
states of emergency, G.S.14-288.12.
----------
Article I. In General
Secs. 12-1—12-20. Reserved.
Article II. Emergency Management Agency
Sec. 12-21.   Purpose.
Sec. 12-22.   Definitions.
Sec. 12-23.   Agency designated.
Sec. 12-24.   Director.
Sec. 12-25.   Emergency operations plan.
Sec. 12-26.   Emergency control.
Sec. 12-27.   Mutual aid agreements.
Sec. 12-28.   Volunteers.
Sec. 12-29.   Coordination of emergency response.
Secs.
12-30—12-46. Reserved.
Article III. States of Emergency
Sec. 12-47.   Declaration.
Sec. 12-48.   Reserved.
Sec. 12-49.   Prohibitions and restrictions during emergency.
Sec. 12-50.   When prohibitions and restrictions take effect.
Sec. 12-51.   Subsequent declaration.
Sec. 12-52.   Violations.
Sec. 12-53.   Absence or disability of mayor.
Sec. 12-54.   End of state of emergency.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 12-1—12-20. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
Sec. 12-21. Purpose.
   In coordination with Wake and Chatham counties, the town has the primary
role of planning for and managing all aspects of the town’s recovery from
emergencies. This ordinance is designed to establish an Emergency Management
Agency within the town as authorized by G.S. Chapter 166A to plan for
emergencies and ensure coordination with Chatham and Wake Counties to ensure
the prompt and efficient utilization of town resources in the event of an
emergency.
(Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-22. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Emergency: An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or man-made
accidental, military, paramilitary, terrorism, weather-related, public health,
explosion-related, riot-related cause, or technological failure or accident,
including, but not limited to, a pandemic, epidemic, cyber incident, an
explosion, a transportation accident, a radiological accident, or a chemical or
other hazardous material incident.
   Emergency management: Those measures taken by the populace and governments
at federal, state, and local levels to minimize the adverse effect of any type
emergency, which include the never-ending preparedness cycle of planning,
prevention, mitigation, warning, movement, shelter, emergency assistance and
recovery.
   Emergency Management Agency: The public safety division of the town which,
among other duties, is charged with coordination of all emergency management
activities for the town.
(Code 1976, § 7-1; Code 1982, § 8-1; Ord. No. 2010-Code-06, 7-15-2010; Ord. No.
2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
   State law reference—Similar provisions, G.S. 166A-4.
Sec. 12-23. Agency designated.
   The Public Safety division, and any successor division, is hereby designated
as the town’s emergency management agency as authorized by G.S. 166A-19.15 and
is charged with coordinating all emergency management activities for the town.
The Public Safety division shall coordinate with Chatham County for those parts
of the town within Chatham County and with Wake County for those parts of the
town within Wake County.
(Code 1976, § 7-2; Code 1982, § 8-2; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-24. Director.
   The Public Safety Director shall serve as the Director of Emergency
Management and shall designate an individual or individuals who, with the
consent of the Town Manager, shall serve as the Director in the absence or
disability of the Public Safety Director. The Director shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the
Emergency Management Agency, subject to the supervision, direction, and control
of the Town Manager and the provisions of this Chapter 12.
(Code 1976, § 7-3; Code 1982, § 8-5; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-25. Emergency operations plan.
   The Director shall implement the town’s emergency operations plan, to
include appointment of Section Chiefs and other Emergency Operations Center
staff.
(Code 1976, § 7-4; Code 1982, § 8-6; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-26. Emergency control.
   The Director may establish an Emergency Operations Center (EOC) which may be
one or more physical centers or may be virtual, and emergency plans in
accordance with the plans of the county, state, or federal emergency management
agencies.
(Code 1976, § 7-6; Code 1982, § 8-7; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-27. Mutual aid agreements.
   The Director may, in collaboration with other public and private agencies,
develop mutual aid agreements, subject to formal or specific approval by the
Town Council when required by law, for reciprocal emergency management aid and
assistance in case of emergencies; provided that such agreements shall be
consistent with the state emergency program and plans.
(Code 1976, § 7-7; Code 1982, § 8-8; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
   State law reference—Mutual aid agreements, G.S. 166A-10.
Sec. 12-28. Volunteers.
   The Director may call volunteers into service only in case of emergency or
for necessary training and preparation for emergencies. All volunteers shall
serve without compensation and shall be subject to all rules and regulations
established for volunteers. They may be dismissed or removed by the Director
with or without cause.
(Code 1976, § 7-8; Code 1982, § 8-9; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-29. Coordination of emergency response.
   The Director shall properly coordinate the activities of the Emergency
Management Agency with other federal, state, or local emergency management
agencies participating in the town's emergency management response or
cooperating in any such emergency.
(Code 1976, § 7-5; Code 1982, § 8-10; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Secs. 12-30—12-46. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. STATES OF EMERGENCY
Sec. 12-47. Declaration.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to declare a state of emergency
(“SOE Declaration”) if he/she finds that an emergency exists. The emergency
area shall include the entire area over which the town has jurisdiction to
enforce ordinance-making powers, unless the SOE Declaration provides otherwise.
(Code 1976, §§ 10-7, 10-9; Code 1982, § 8-22; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-48. [Reserved.]
Sec. 12-49. Prohibitions and restrictions during emergency.
   (a)   During the existence of a declared state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by declaration prohibitions and restrictions (“Prohibitions and
Restrictions Declaration”):
      (1)   If movements of people in public places, including any of the
following:
         a.   Imposing a curfew. Unless otherwise specified in the declaration,
the curfew shall apply during the specified period each day until the Mayor, by
additional declaration, removes the curfew.
         b.   Directing and compelling the voluntary or mandatory evacuation of
all or part of the population from any stricken or threatened area within the
town’s jurisdiction.
         c.   Prescribing routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in
connection with evacuation.
         d.   Controlling ingress and egress of an emergency area, and the
movement of persons within that area.
         e.   Providing for the closure, within the emergency area, of streets,
roads, highways, bridges, public vehicular areas, or other areas ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, except to the movement of emergency responders and
other persons necessary for recovery from the emergency. In addition to any
other notice or dissemination of information, notification of any closure of a
road or public vehicular area under the authority of this subsection shall be
given to the Department of Transportation as soon as practicable.
      (2)   Of the operation of offices, business establishments, and other
places to or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate.
      (3)   Upon the possession, transportation, sale, purchase, and
consumption of alcoholic beverages.
      (4)   Upon the possession, transportation, sale, purchase, storage, and
use of gasoline, and dangerous weapons and substances, except that this chapter
does not authorize prohibitions or restrictions on lawfully possessed firearms
or ammunition. As used in this subsection, the term “dangerous weapons and
substances” has the same meaning as it does under G.S. 14-288.1 and the term
“firearm” has the same meaning as it does under G.S. 14-409.39(2).
      (5)   Upon other activities or conditions the control of which may be
reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the
state of emergency.
   (b)   The SOE Declaration and any Prohibitions and Restrictions Declaration
may be combined in one declaration or may be separate declarations.
   (c)   The Mayor shall not be required to impose all types of the above
prohibitions or restrictions, or any particular prohibition or restriction,
during a state of emergency and may determine and impose only the prohibitions
or restrictions deemed necessary or suitable to a particular state of
emergency. By way of example and not limitation, the Prohibitions and
Restrictions Declaration may limit the application of all or any part of
prohibitions or restrictions authorized by this article to any area
specifically designated or described within the Declaration and to specific
hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of such
declaration law enforcement officers, Fire Department and other public
employees; doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty
employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper,
magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations operated
for profit; and such other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of the people within the town.
(Code 1976, § 10-10; Code 1982, § 8-24; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-50. When prohibitions and restrictions take effect.
   The prohibitions and restrictions imposed by a Prohibitions and Restrictions
Declaration shall take effect in the emergency area immediately upon
publication of the Prohibitions and Restrictions Declaration unless the
Declaration sets a later time. Publication may consist of reports of the
substance of the prohibitions and restrictions in the mass communications media
serving the emergency area or other effective methods of disseminating the
necessary information quickly, including publication on the town’s website. As
soon as practicable, however, the Mayor shall make appropriate distribution of
the full text of any Prohibitions and Restrictions Declaration and the town
shall be prepared to furnish certified copes of it upon request.
(Code 1976, § 10-11; Code 1982, § 8-25; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-51. Subsequent declaration.
   Any SOE Declaration or Prohibitions and Restrictions Declaration may be
extended, altered, or repealed during the continued or threatened existence of
a state of emergency by the Mayor’s issuance of a subsequent declaration.
(Code 1976, § 10-12; Code 1982, § 8-26; Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-52. Violation.
   During the existence of a declared state of emergency, it shall be unlawful
for any person to violate any provision of any Declaration authorized by this
article. Any person who violates any provision of a Declaration made pursuant
to this article shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor in accordance with
G.S. 14-288.20A.
(Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-53. Absence or disability of Mayor.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro-tem shall
have and exercise all powers given the Mayor by this article. In case of the
absence or disability of both the Mayor and the Mayor Pro-tem, the Town Manager
shall have and exercise all of the powers given the Mayor by this article.
(Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
Sec. 12-54. End of state of emergency.
   The Mayor shall declare the end of such state of emergency or all or any
part of the prohibitions and restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances
warrant or when directed to do so by the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 2020-Code-01, 4-30-2020)
   State law references—G.S. Chapter 166A, 14-288.1, 14-409.39(2), 14-288.20A.
Chapter 13
RESERVED
 
Chapter 14
ENVIRONMENT
Article I. In General
Secs. 14-1--14-18. Reserved.
Article II. Drainage
Sec. 14-19.   Drainage nuisances; abatement.
Article III. Smoking Prohibited in Town Facilities
Sec. 14-20.   Purpose.
Sec. 14-21.   Definitions.
Sec. 14-22.   Smoking prohibited in town facilities.
Sec. 14-23.   Signs.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Secs. 14-1--14-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. DRAINAGE
Sec. 14-19. Drainage nuisances; abatement.
   Any surface or roof drainage which creates a structural or health hazard or
any other nuisance to the owners or occupants of adjacent premises, or to the
public by reason of discharge into, onto or across any adjacent building,
premises or public thoroughfare shall be abated by the owners of the improperly
drained area.
(Code 1976, § 15-60; Code 1982, § 5-98)
ARTICLE III. SMOKING PROHIBITED IN TOWN FACILITIES
Sec. 14-20. Purpose.
   Pursuant to authority granted by the North Carolina General Assembly, it is
the intent of this section to protect the health and well being of individuals
working in or visiting Town of Cary facilities from the risks related to
secondhand smoke.
(Ord. No. 2007-13, 10-11-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
Sec. 14-21. Definitions.
   [The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:]
   Smoking means the use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product.
   Town facilities means any building owned by the Town of Cary, leased by the
Town as lessor, or any area leased as lessee and occupied by the Town of Cary
or any public transportation vehicle owned or leased by the Town. Town
facilities include, but are not limited to, Town Hall, other Town buildings,
police and fire stations, Town community centers, and C-Tran vehicles.
(Ord. No. 2007-13, 10-11-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
Sec. 14-22. Smoking prohibited in town facilities.
   Smoking is prohibited in all Town facilities.
(Ord. No. 2007-13, 10-11-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
Sec. 14-23. Signs.
   Signs indicating that smoking is not permitted shall be posted at every Town
facility to give adequate notice to members of the public.
(Ord. No. 2007-13, 10-11-2007, eff. 1-1-2008)
Chapter 15
RESERVED
 
Chapter 16
FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION*
----------
   *State law references—Fire protection, G.S. Ch. 69; municipal fire
protection, G.S. § 160A-291 et seq.; fire limits, G.S. § 160D-1128
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 16-1.   Statewide fire code.
Sec. 16-2.   Regulation of open burning.
Sec. 16-3.   Combustible landscaping material prohibited.
Secs. 16-4--16-18. Reserved.
Article II. Fire Department
Sec. 16-19.   Established.
Sec. 16-20.   Appointment of officers.
Sec. 16-21.   Duties of fire chief.
Sec. 16-22.   Police powers.
Sec. 16-23.   Apparatus, equipment and supplies.
Secs. 16-24--16-53. Reserved.
Article III. Hazardous Material Emergencies
Division 1. Generally
Sec. 16-54.   Purpose and intent.
Sec. 16-55.   Charges.
Secs. 16-56--16-83. Reserved.
Division 2. Data Storage Boxes
Sec. 16-84.   Purpose.
Sec. 16-85.   Required.
Sec. 16-86.   Contents, types, location.
Sec. 16-87.   Violation; enforcement.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 16-1. Statewide fire code.
   The North Carolina Fire Prevention Code as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended in the future, is hereby adopted and
legally enforceable in the corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the town.
(Code 1982, § 9-40; Ord. No. 00-008, § 1, 4-13-2000; Ord. No. 2010-Code-03, 5-
13-2010)
Sec. 16-2. Regulation of open burning.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate certain open
burning in order to protect the public from the hazards of fires and air
pollution.
   (b)   Scope. This regulation shall apply to all operations involving open
burning except those specifically exempted by this section.
   (c)   No open burning allowed. No person shall cause, suffer, allow or
permit open burning of refuse or other combustible material except as may be
allowed in compliance with this section. Furthermore, the town of Cary burning
permit must remain on the premises during the hours of burning.
   (d)   Permissible open burning with required permit. While recognizing that
open burning contributes to air pollution, certain types of open burning may
reasonably be allowed in the public interest. The authority to conduct open
burning under the provision of this section does not exempt or excuse a person
from the consequences, damages or injuries which may result from such conduct
nor does it excuse or exempt any person from complying with all applicable
laws, ordinances, regulations, and orders of other governmental entities having
jurisdiction even though the open burning is conducted in compliance with this
section. The following types of burning are permissible with a town of Cary
burning permit:
   (1)   Fires purposely set to agricultural lands for disease and pest control
and other accepted agricultural or wildlife management practices.
   (2)   Fires purposely set to forest lands for accepted forest management
practices.
   (3)   Fires purposely set in rural areas for rights-of-way maintenance.
   (4)   Camp fires and fires used solely for outdoor cooking and other
recreational purposes or for ceremonial occasions or human warmth and comfort.
These fires shall be confined to containers approved by the town of Cary fire
department.
   (5)   The burning of waste materials, trees, brush and other vegetable
matter in connection with construction projects and the clearing of land or
rights-of-way and with the following limitations:
      a.   Prevailing winds at the time of burning must be away from any city
or town or built-up area, the ambient air of which may be significantly
affected by smoke, fly-ash, or other air contaminants from the burning;
      b.   The location of the burning must be at least 1,000 feet from any
dwelling located in a predominantly residential area other than a dwelling or
structure located on the property on which the burning is conducted;
      c.   The amount of dirt on the material being burned must be minimized;
      d.   Heavy oils, asphaltic materials, items containing natural or
synthetic rubber or any materials other than plant growth may not be burned;
      e.   Initial burning may generally be commenced only between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., and no combustible material may be added to the fire
between 3:00 p.m. of one day and 9:00 a.m. of the following day, except that
under favorable meteorological conditions deviation from the above-stated hours
of burning may be granted by the air pollution control agency having
jurisdiction. It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator of the
open burning operation to obtain written approval for burning during periods
other than those specified above. At no time during the burning operation shall
the permittee fail to have the fire tended or guarded.
   (6)   Motor vehicle salvage operations may be continued subject to the
following limitations:
      a.   Permission to burn must be granted in writing by the state
department of natural resources and community development;
      b.   No automobile tires shall be burned or used in starting a fire.
   (7)   Open burning of leaves, tree branches or yard trimmings originating on
the premises of private residences and burned on those premises in areas where
no public pickup facilities are available, and such burning is done between 9:
00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. and does not create a nuisance.
   (8)   Permits or permissions granted by the town under this section shall be
subject to continued review and may be withdrawn at any time.
(Code 1976, § 8-26; Code 1982, § 9-47; Ord. No. 86-19, § 3, 5-8-1986)
Sec. 16-3. Combustible landscaping material prohibited.
   No pine straw or any other landscape cover material with a fire rate of
spread more than 24 inches per minute shall be placed, kept, or stored within
10 feet of buildings with combustible exterior construction including, but not
limited to, vinyl, aluminum, masonite, or wood siding.
   (a)   Exception: Detached residential structures not utilized as an "R-
4 Home Daycare" or "R-4 Residential Care Home" as defined in the North Carolina
Building Code.
   (b)   Civil penalties: Violations not abated within seven days of a written
notice shall constitute a $250.00 per day fine.
(Ord. No. 2010-Code-03, 5-13-2010; Ord. No. 2022-Code-01, 4-28-2022)
Secs. 16-4—16-18. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. FIRE DEPARTMENT
Sec. 16-19. Established.
   The fire department of the town is hereby established. It shall consist of a
chief and such other officers as the town council may deem necessary for the
effective operation of the department.
(Code 1976, § 8-1; Code 1982, § 9-16)
Sec. 16-20. Appointment of officers.
   (a)   The chief and all other officers shall be appointed by the town
manager for an indefinite period, and their tenure of office shall depend upon
good conduct and efficiency.
   (b)   The chief shall be held accountable to the town manager and shall make
written and verbal reports thereto as the manager may require. All other
officers shall be accountable to the chief.
(Code 1976, § 8-2; Code 1982, § 9-17)
Sec. 16-21. Duties of fire chief.
   (a)   The fire chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to
govern the fire department and shall be responsible to the town manager for the
personnel, morale and general efficiency of the department.
   (b)   The chief shall determine the number and kind of companies of which
the department is to be composed and shall determine the response of such
companies to alarms.
   (c)   The chief shall cause to be conducted a continuing program of
training, including suitable drills and instruction in the operation and
handling of equipment, first aid and rescue work, salvage, a study of buildings
in the town, fire prevention, water supplies and all other matters generally
considered essential to good firemanship and safety of life and property from
fire.
   (d)   The chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other information
about the work of the department.
(Code 1976, § 8-4; Code 1982, § 9-19)
Sec. 16-22. Police powers.
   (a)   All regularly appointed members of the fire department are hereby
given the necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
   (b)   It is hereby made the special duty of the chief of police and/or other
peace officers who may be on duty and available for fire duty, to respond to
all fire alarms and assist the fire department in the protection of life and
property, regulating traffic, maintaining order and in enforcing observance of
all sections of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 8-8; Code 1982, § 9-21)
Sec. 16-23. Apparatus, equipment and supplies.
   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or handle any
apparatus or equipment belonging to the department unless accompanied by, or
having the special permission of, an officer or authorized member of the
department.
(Code 1976, § 8-9; Code 1982, § 9-22)
Secs. 16-24—16-53. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. HAZARDOUS MATERIAL EMERGENCIES
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 16-54. Purpose and intent.
   The duties of the fire department shall include controlling and eliminating
hazardous waste emergencies as provided in this article. The fire department
shall have the authority to summarily remove, abate or remedy hazardous
material emergencies in the town limits, or within one mile thereof, that are
dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or public safety. The expense of
the action shall be paid by the person in default.
(Code 1982, § 9-62; Ord. No. 88-7, § 1, 4-14-1988)
Sec. 16-55. Charges.
   (a)   The town will not charge for removal, abatement or remedy of hazardous
waste material emergencies which accrue $500.00 or less in charges.
   (b)   The town will charge for removal, abatement or remedy of hazardous
waste material emergencies which accrue more than $500.00 in charges. In all
cases, the first $500.00 of expenses shall not be charged to the person in
default.
   (c)   The charges for removal, abatement or remedy of hazardous waste
material emergencies, as defined in this article, shall be prescribed annually
in the town's budget for the fiscal year.
(Code 1982, § 9-63; Ord. No. 88-7, § 1, 4-14-1988)
Secs. 16-56—16-83. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. DATA STORAGE BOXES
Sec. 16-84. Purpose.
   The town is empowered and required under G.S. 166A-7 to provide for
management of local emergencies. Federal super fund regulations and state
right-to-know laws provide special reporting and handling requirements for
businesses that generate or store substantial quantities of hazardous
substances. Emergencies such as fires, spills and explosions involving
hazardous substances present a particularly grave threat to the health of the
environment and the citizens of the county, as well as to workers responding to
the emergency. Access to current information concerning the type, amount and
location of hazardous substances during such an emergency is necessary to
adequately protect human life and the environment.
(Code 1982, § 9-70; Ord. No. 92-30, § 1, 4-9-1992; Ord. No. 2010-Code-02, 3-10-
2010)
Sec. 16-85. Required.
   All commercial enterprises or industries in the town which use, store or
manufacture hazardous materials that must be reported under the Hazardous
Chemicals Right to Know Act (G.S. 95-173 et seq.) or under Title III of the
Federal Super Fund Amendments and Reauthorization Act and the regulations
promulgated thereunder must have an approved on-site hazardous materials data
storage box(es) at each facility where hazardous materials may be found.
(Code 1982, § 9-71; Ord. No. 92-30, § 1, 4-9-1992)
Sec. 16-86. Contents, types, location.
   (a)   The data storage boxes may contain keys providing access to secured
portions of the facility. The boxes shall contain current specific information
to assist fire department and hazardous materials teams responding to
emergencies at the facility. The boxes shall include, but not be limited to,
facility maps or plans showing the type and location of hazardous materials,
Tier II forms, material safety data sheets, lists of chemicals with CAS
numbers, telephone numbers for facility employees and other persons to be
contacted in case of such emergencies.
   (b)   All information requested on county emergency management data storage
sheets must be provided on the forms provided by the county or in a
substantially similar format and must be placed in the data storage box. Such
information must be updated continuously to ensure its accuracy.
   (c)   The data storage boxes themself shall be of the type designated and
approved by the county local emergency planning committee and shall be located
at or near the primary vehicle entrance to the facility and installed in
accordance with directives of the chief of the fire department serving the
facility.
   (d)   A hazardous identification placard, approved by the town fire marshal,
must be attached to the exterior of the cabinet.
(Code 1982, § 9-72; Ord. No. 92-30, § 1, 4-9-1992)
Sec. 16-87. Violation; enforcement.
   Enforcement actions may be initiated by the town fire marshal, the county
emergency management director, or chief of the town fire department.
(Code 1982, § 9-73; Ord. No. 92-30, § 1, 4-9-1992)
Chapter 17
RESERVED
 
Chapter 18
PUBLIC HEALTH*
----------
   *State law references—Municipal health ordinances, G.S. 160A-174; public
health ordinance abatement of public health nuisances, G.S. 160A-193; placing
refuse within town, G.S. 160A-200.1; annual notice to chronic violators of
public nuisance or overgrown vegetation ordinance, G.S. 160A-303.1; public
enterprises, G.S. 160A-311 et seq.
----------
Sec. 18-1.   Purpose; applicability
Sec. 18-2.   Enforcement—Generally.
Sec. 18-3.   Right of entry.
Sec. 18-4.   Definitions.
Sec. 18-5.   Nuisances prohibited and enumeration; exceptions.
Sec. 18-6.   Overgrown vegetation; exceptions.
Sec. 18-7.   Building materials, building rubbish, garbage, junk, rubbish,
timber, white goods, yard waste, and other nuisance material.
Sec. 18-8.   Structures.
Sec. 18-9.   Nuisance vehicles prohibited.
Sec. 18-10.   Stagnant water prohibited; public drains.
Sec. 18-11.   Obstruction of streets, sidewalks, greenways, rights-of-way, etc.
prohibited.
Sec. 18-12.   Dead, dying, diseased, or damaged trees on private property.
Sec. 18-13.   Other conditions constituting a public nuisance; existence of
same prohibited.
Sec. 18-14.   Open wells.
Sec. 18-15.   Composting.
Sec. 18-16.   Remedies.
Sec. 18-17.   Notice of violation.
Sec. 18-18.   Abatement of nuisance by property owner; civil penalty;
administrative fee; no criminal penalty.
Sec. 18-19.   Abatement of nuisance by town.
Sec. 18-20.   Emergency abatement by the town.
Sec. 18-21.   Collection of cost of enforcement.
Sec. 18-22.   Chronic violator.
Sec. 18-1. Purpose; applicability.
   In order to protect the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens and the
peace and dignity of the town as authorized by G.S. ch. 160A, it is the purpose
of this chapter to define conditions that constitute a detriment, danger, and
hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the town and
address the removal and abatement of the same. This chapter applies to property
located in the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-2. Enforcement—Generally.
   The Town Manager shall enforce all provisions of this chapter and shall have
such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purpose and provisions of this chapter. No person shall hinder, obstruct, or
delay the Town Manager, their designee(s), or any of their agents in the lawful
discharge of their duties under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-3. Right of entry.
   The Town Manager, their designee(s), or their agents shall have the right to
enter, at any reasonable time, any premises for the purpose of carrying out and
effectuating the provisions of this chapter, including making inspections and/
or investigations and taking abatement actions.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-4. Definitions.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, and their derivatives, when used in
this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   Building materials shall mean lumber, blocks, brick, stone, carpet, masonry
materials, nails, electrical supplies and materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies and materials, plumbing supplies and materials, building
hardware, plaster, concrete, roofing, scaffolding, floor coverings, gutters, or
other materials or substances suitable for or commonly used in the
construction, remodeling, or repair of houses, commercial buildings and other
structures, driveways, fences, decks, landings, patios, porches, or carports.
   Building rubbish shall mean solid waste from construction, remodeling, and
repair operations on houses, commercial buildings, and other structures,
including but not limited to excavated earth, stones, brick, plaster, lumber,
concrete, and waste parts occasioned by installations and replacements.
   Combustible refuse shall mean items or material that are capable of
incineration or burning, including but not limited to automobile tires and
tubes, brush, cardboard, clothing, garbage, mattresses, paper, rags, rubbish,
rugs, other textiles, wood, or any other combustible materials or objects of a
like nature.
   Dwelling shall mean any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile
home, or part thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be
so used, and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or
usually enjoyed therewith.
   Front yard area shall mean the area located between the front line of a
building or structure and the front property line of a lot and extending along
the entire width of the lot. The front of a building or structure is typically
the side with the primary entrance.
   Garbage shall mean animal and vegetable refuse resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and consumption of food, including a minimum amount of
liquid necessary incidental thereto.
   Greenway property shall mean any interest in real property held by the town
that the town operates and maintains as a public greenway, including but not
limited to property designated as a greenway on the Parks, Recreation and
Cultural Resources approved Greenway Master Plan or successor document.
   Hazardous materials shall mean any substance that, because of its quantity,
concentration, or physical or chemical characteristics, poses a significant
present or potential hazard to human health and safety or the environment. Such
materials include but are not limited to those listed in part 302 of the
Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA)(40 C.F.R. 302) or section
311, “Oil and hazardous substance liability,” of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C.
1321).
   Heavily wooded lot shall mean a lot so densely covered with trees that
conventional lawncare equipment cannot maneuver.
   Junk shall mean any furniture, appliances, machinery, equipment, building
fixture, automotive parts, tires, or other similar item which is either in a
wholly or partially rusted, wrecked, dismantled, or inoperative condition.
   Landscaped area shall mean a portion of a property defined by clear borders
consisting of intentionally planted, cultivated, or maintained vegetation other
than grass that is regularly maintained by the property owner.
   Motor vehicle or vehicle shall mean all machines designed or intended to
travel over land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-
propelled vehicle.
   Noxious vegetation shall mean plants that cause dermatitis through direct or
indirect contact or plants with large spikes, including but not limited to
poison sumac, poison ivy, or poison oak.
   Nuisance shall mean any condition that is dangerous or prejudicial to the
public health or public safety.
   Open place shall mean a front, side, or rear yard area; a vacant lot; a
deck, landing, patio, porch, or carport not totally enclosed by a roof and
walls, screens, or windows; or the area between the sidewalk and the street
curb or pavement edge.
   Pest shall mean any insect or animal that is destructive or otherwise
detrimental to humans or human concerns, including but not limited to harmful
insects such as mosquitoes, ticks, fleas, flies, and other arthropods which can
be living transporters and transmitters of a disease.
   Rear yard area shall mean the area located between the rear line of a
building or structure and the rear property line of a lot and extending along
the entire width of the lot. The rear of a building or structure is typically
the side immediately opposite the primary entrance.
   Responsible person shall mean the owner, lessee, or occupant; or agent,
servant, representative, or employee of any owner, lessee, or occupant; of real
property in the town.
   Rubbish shall mean discarded, manmade material in any form resulting from
domestic, industrial, commercial, medical, or agricultural operations,
including but not limited to appliances, ashes, bottles, boxes, cartons, cans,
crockery, dust, mineral matter, rags, tools, or other items made from glass,
leather, paper, rubber, metal, and wood.
   Side yard area shall mean the area located between the sideline(s) of a
building or structure and the side property line of a lot and extending the
entire length of the lot. The side of a building or structure typically does
not contain the primary entrance.
   Stream shall mean a body of concentrated flowing water in a natural low area
or natural channel on the land surface.
   Structure shall mean that which is built or constructed.
   Timber shall mean wood cut into sections for the purpose of future use,
including but not limited to carpentry or use as fuel in fireplaces, fire pits,
or wood-burning heaters, which is not rotten or decayed.
   White goods shall mean appliances, including but not limited to washing
machines, clothes dryers, stoves, ranges, ovens, refrigerators, freezers,
dishwashers, and water heaters.
   Yard waste shall mean grass, hay, leaves, pinecones, pine straw, plants,
extracted stumps, fallen trees, tree branches, or tree limbs, trimmings,
shrubbery prunings, removed weeds, rotted or decayed timber, and such other
similar putrescible materials which are generated by and during the maintenance
of yards, gardens, and landscaped areas.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-5. Nuisances prohibited and enumeration; exceptions.
   (a)   All of the conditions enumerated and described in this chapter and
occurring in an open place are hereby found, deemed, and declared to constitute
a detriment, danger, and hazard to the health, safety, and welfare of the
inhabitants of the town, are declared a detriment to the peace and dignity of
the town, and are found, deemed, and declared to be public nuisances. The
creation, maintenance, or failure to abate any such public nuisance is also
hereby declared unlawful.
   (b)   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to property owned by the
town in fee simple, greenway property, or property for which the town holds a
property interest and which property is intended to be left in its natural
state.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful for any responsible person to keep or maintain
any real property in a condition prohibited by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-6. Overgrown vegetation; exceptions.
   (a)   No responsible person shall allow or maintain any vegetation to exceed
eight inches in height unless it is located:
      (1)   Within a heavily wooded lot or landscaped area; or
      (2)   More than 100 feet from any abutting street, alley, greenway,
bicycle path/lane, or sidewalk; or
      (3)   More than 100 feet from any adjoining property which contains a
dwelling or commercial building; or
      (4)   More than 50 feet from any dwelling or commercial building.
   (b)   Landscaped areas and heavily wooded lots shall be allowed under the
following conditions:
      (1)   Landscaped areas and heavily wooded lots shall be regularly
maintained in a manner that shall not harbor, create, nor allow to exist any
nuisance or condition determined by the town to be a detriment to the health,
safety, and welfare of the inhabitants of the town or a detriment to the peace
and dignity of the town; and
      (2)   Landscaped areas and heavily wooded lot vegetation shall not grow
upon, overhang, or otherwise encroach into the public right-of-way nor into
adjoining properties.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-7. Building materials, building rubbish, garbage, junk, rubbish,
timber, white goods, yard waste, and other nuisance material.
   No responsible person shall allow or maintain the accumulation, collection,
concentration, placement, or storage of the following in an open place:
   (1)   Building materials on a lot for which there is not a current, valid
building permit issued for construction on the same lot unless the building
materials are stored in a completely enclosed building in a manner that does
not become a location for any other nuisance enumerated in this Code;
   (2)   Building materials on a lot for which there is a current, valid
building permit issued for construction on the same lot, and building rubbish
created by ongoing work on the lot, unless both building materials and building
rubbish are containerized or organized by the end of each workday and the
remainder of the lot is kept in a reasonably clean condition;
   (3)   Garbage, animal waste, and yard waste that is not entirely contained
within a container designed for the temporary holding of such items or
otherwise neatly organized in preparation of disposal or which is being
composted consistent with the provisions of this chapter;
   (4)   Household or office furniture, fitness equipment, household fixtures,
household goods, junk, white goods or other appliances, metal products of any
kind, and similar items not designed to withstand the elements or intended for
outdoor use by the manufacturer;
      This subsection shall not prevent:
      a.   The use of household furniture on a totally enclosed porch having a
roof and walls, screens, or windows; or
      b.   The use of furniture which is designed for outdoor use such as patio
or lawn furniture, on porches or landings or in front, side, or rear yard areas
or other open places;
   (5)   Combustible refuse, junk, or rubbish; or
   (6)   Timber, unless said timber is:
      a.   Free from rot and decay;
      b.   Placed or stored off the ground a minimum of six inches;
      c.   Placed or stored in the rear yard area or side yard area of the lot;
and
      d.   Is not a location for any other nuisance enumerated in this Code.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-8. Structures.
   No responsible person shall allow or maintain:
   (1)   Structures, remains of structures, or lots with conditions that are
detrimental, dangerous, or otherwise hazardous to the public safety, health,
and welfare, including but not limited to the presence or existence of:
      a.   Glass, metal, or other sharp objects in areas easily accessible by
members of the public or pets;
      b.   Unstable structures which may fall or collapse;
      c.   Holes, excavations, surviving foundations, or walls, that may
collapse or create heights in excess of three feet in areas where they may be
scaled, except for properly permitted retaining walls;
      d.   Any substance which is hazardous or harmful to humans or pets in
areas easily accessible by members of the public or pets;
      e.   Structures and remains of structures open to the elements, which are
a danger to children, or may attract vagrants, or persons intent on criminal
activities or other activities that would constitute a nuisance.
      f.   Any structure which has been burned, partially burned, or otherwise
partially destroyed and which is hazardous to the safety of any person, is a
continuing fire hazard, or which is structurally unsound;
   (2)   Any swimming pool or appurtenance thereto which creates a danger to or
is otherwise prejudicial to the public health, safety, and welfare; or
   (3)   Carports, open porches, decks, open garages, and other areas partially
open to the outdoors which:
      a.   Are used as a storage or collection place for junk or rubbish;
      b.   Are used as a storage or collection place for combustible materials
or otherwise creates an increased risk of fire; or
      c.   May conceal dangerous conditions or otherwise become a location for
any other nuisance enumerated in this Code.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-9. Nuisance vehicles prohibited.
   No responsible person shall allow or maintain a motor vehicle on public or
private property that is determined and declared to be a health or safety
hazard, a public nuisance, or is otherwise unlawful, including a vehicle found
to be:
   (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rodents or
other pests;
   (2)   A point of growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation;
   (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
   (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials;
   (5)   One with areas of confinement which cannot be operated from the
inside, such as trunks, hoods, etc.;
   (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling, rolling,
turning over or creating an unsafe movement;
   (7)   A point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any
other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
   (8)   One with sharp parts which are jagged or contain sharp edges;
   (9)   Not elevated on full inflatable tires or otherwise so that portions
thereof are at least 18 inches above the ground surface; or
   (10)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard by
the town.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-10. Stagnant water prohibited; public drains.
   No responsible person shall allow or maintain:
   (1)   The standing or collection of water to be or remain in any open
vessels or on any object;
   (2)   A collection or ponding of stagnant water with conditions causing, or
likely to cause, pests to breed;
   (3)   A collection place, pool, or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by overflowing septic tanks, manmade dams, open
ditches, overflowing pipes, foundation trenches, or other impoundments of any
kind;
   (4)   Flooding caused by improper or inadequate drainage from private
property which interferes with the use of, or endangers in any way, the
streets, sidewalks, parks, or other town-owned property of any kind; or
   (5)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of water in swales, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches,
drains, culverts, or curb and gutter so as to prevent the free flow of water
therein or to the extent that standing water is created.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-11. Obstruction of streets, sidewalks, greenways, rights-of-way, etc.
prohibited.
   (a)   No responsible person shall allow or maintain any object, substance,
improvement, structure, material, or vegetation of any kind to protrude,
obstruct, or block the free usage and safe passage of pedestrians, bicycles,
and motor vehicles on any street, sidewalk, greenway, bicycle path/lane, or
right-of-way.
   (b)   Vegetation located within any street, sidewalk, greenway, bicycle
path/lane, or right-of-way shall be permitted as long as said vegetation
conforms to the following requirements:
      (1)   The minimum vertical (overhead) clearance of any vegetation
overhanging any street, sidewalk, greenway, bicycle path/lane, or right-of-way
or portion thereof shall be eight feet over sidewalks and greenways and 14 feet
over all other rights-of-way except thoroughfare streets (as defined by the
future roadway widths map of the Imagine Cary Community Plan) which shall have
a clearance of 16 feet.
      (2)   The minimal horizontal (lateral) clearance of any vegetation
adjacent to any street, sidewalk, greenway, bicycle path/lane, or right-of-way
or portion thereof shall be six inches from each edge of sidewalk, road, or
travelway. Greater than six inches is preferred to allow for future growth.
   (c)   No responsible person shall allow or maintain any fence, sign,
shrubbery, hedge, bush, tree, limbs, grasses, mailbox, or other object or
combination of objects that obstruct the view of motorists using any street,
private driveway, or approach to any street intersection so as to constitute a
traffic hazard or a condition dangerous to public safety.
   (d)   This section does not apply to gates or other obstructions designed to
regulate vehicular or pedestrian access and placed by the town, or to objects
or improvements placed pursuant to a valid agreement with the town.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-12. Dead, dying, diseased, or damaged trees on private property.
   No responsible person shall allow or maintain any tree, shrub, or part
thereof which is or contributes to a nuisance, including but not limited to:
   (1)   Any tree, shrub, or part thereof, which upon falling could interfere
with the free and safe passage along a public street, public sidewalk, or
greenway property by pedestrians, bicycles, or vehicular traffic.
   (2)   Any tree or shrub that is dead, dying, diseased, or damaged by any
parasite, insect, or pest, which may breed, scatter, or injure persons,
property, or trees and shrubs planted in public street rights-of-way or other
town property.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-13. Other conditions constituting a public nuisance; existence of same
prohibited.
   No responsible person shall allow or maintain:
   (1)   Any stormwater retention or impoundment device determined to be
operating improperly by the town;
   (2)   Any discharge of pollutants or non-stormwater materials to the
stormwater drainage system.
   (3)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department or that injures or causes
discomfort to the community at large, endangers life, generates disease, or has
a detrimental effect on the public health, safety, and welfare;
   (4)   Any condition which constitutes a breeding ground or harbor for pests;
   (5)   Any open or unsecured storage or collection place of hazardous
materials;
   (6)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage from
malfunctioning septic tanks or associated septic drain fields, broken or
malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes, or any other seepage of dangerous,
hazardous, or poisonous liquids;
   (7)   Any conditions or use of property which results in noxious odors,
vapors, and stenches to be discharged into the air; or
   (8)   Dog pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where dogs or
other pets are chained or kept, or areas where dogs or other pets are permitted
to roam which are a collection place for animal waste and attract flies or
other pests, emit foul odors which can be detected from adjacent property, are
otherwise not kept in a sanitary condition, or become a location for any other
nuisance enumerated in this Code.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-14.   Open wells.
   (a)   An open and exposed well within the town, the use of which has been
discontinued, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (b)   No person, after discontinuing the use of any well, shall leave said
well open and exposed.
   (c)   The use of a well shall be deemed to be discontinued when it has not
been used by a person dwelling on the land upon which the well is located for a
period of more than 30 days.
   (d)   A well shall be deemed open and exposed when its use is discontinued
unless:
      (1)   The mouth or top of such well is securely and carefully covered so
as to permit the entry of an object no larger than 15 cubic inches in size; and
      (2)   A fence or wall not less than three feet in height completely
surrounds said well.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
   State law reference(s)—Construction or abandonment of wells, G.S. 87-83 et
seq.
Sec. 18-15.   Composting.
   (a)   Composting is a means of reducing the solid waste generated in the
community and, notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, is allowed
by the owner or the occupant of a property upon which the composting takes
place upon compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (b)   Waste materials being composted must be generated on the property
where the composting takes place.
   (c)   Composting activity shall not occur within 25 feet of any structure
which is used for dwelling purposes unless being done with the permission of
the owner of the structure.
   (d)   Materials being composted shall not include human body wastes; meat or
dairy waste products; or fecal wastes from dogs, cats, and other household pets
except for the fecal wastes from rabbits, which may be composted. Fecal wastes
from chickens kept in accordance with the provisions of the Land Development
Ordinance may only be composted on the site where the chickens are being kept.
   (e)   Composting activity shall not create any condition where the material
being composted may be blown or otherwise unintentionally transported from the
residential lot upon which the composting is taking place.
   (f)   Composting activity shall not create any condition which is conducive
to the existence and breeding of pests or otherwise create a condition which is
hazardous to the health, safety, or welfare of the general public or otherwise
becomes a location for any other nuisance enumerated in this Code.
   (g)   Composting activity shall not produce any odor which is offensive to
individuals living in the vicinity. That odor shall not be detectable on
adjacent lots. If composting is being done on a property on which more than one
dwelling exists, the composting shall not create any detectable odor which
offends the other inhabitants on the property.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-16. Remedies.
   This article may be enforced by one, all, or a combination of the remedies
described below or elsewhere in this chapter or otherwise authorized by common
law or statute, including but not limited to G.S. 160A-175 and 160A-193.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-17. Notice of violation.
   (a)   Notice of violation. Whenever any town official charged with the duty
of enforcing the regulations in this chapter has reasonable cause to believe
that a person is violating any of the provisions of this chapter or that real
property within the town is in violation of this chapter, the town shall notify
the alleged violator and/or property owner of the violation; specify what
actions must be taken to correct the violation; direct the person to correct
the violation within a specified reasonable time period; and specify the
consequences of non-compliance (such as a civil penalty). If correction of the
violation is not possible due to surrounding circumstances and as determined in
the town’s sole discretion, the notice of violation may impose civil penalties
or other measures without first providing a violator with the opportunity for
the violator to correct the violation. If the violator cannot be reasonably
ascertained, then the notice of violation shall be sent to the record owner of
the land on which the violation exists.
   (b)   Service requirements. Notices of violation shall be in writing and
shall be served by regular and registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested. If such registered or certified notice is refused or is returned
unclaimed, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten
days after the mailing, the service shall be deemed sufficient.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-18. Abatement of nuisance by property owner; civil penalty;
administrative fee; no criminal penalty.
   (a)   Any person notified pursuant to section 18-17 that the property is or
contains a nuisance as provided in this chapter shall abate the nuisance within
the time specified in the notice.
   (b)   Civil penalty.
      (1)   Should the person refuse or fail to abate the nuisance within the
required time, the town may impose a civil penalty of $250.00 and, pursuant to
G.S. 160A-175(g), may impose additional $250.00 penalties for each day the
nuisance remains unabated. The town shall send the alleged violator and/or
property owner a written citation that shall again describe the nature of the
violation, state any actions that must be taken to cure or correct the
violation, and specify the amount of any civil penalty that is being levied.
All civil penalties resulting from the nuisance shall be paid and the violation
shall be cured or corrected within ten days of receipt of the citation, or such
other time period as the citation may specify.
      (2)   If payment is not made, or the violation is not cured or corrected
within that time, then the Town Attorney, in consultation with the Town
Manager, is authorized to institute a civil action for the recovery of all
penalties in a court of competent jurisdiction in the nature of a suit to
collect a debt, pursuant to G.S. 160A-175(c).
   (c)   Violations of this chapter shall not be a misdemeanor or infraction as
provided by G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-19. Abatement of nuisance by town.
   Should any owner or occupant fail or refuse to abate a violation within the
time period specified in the notice of violation, the town, pursuant to G.S.
160A-175 or 160A-193, may cause said conditions to be removed or otherwise
remedied by having employees or agents of the town go upon said premises and
remove or otherwise abate such nuisance. In addition, the Town Attorney, in
consultation with the Town Manager, is authorized to apply to the appropriate
court for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement
commanding the owner to correct the unlawful nuisance. The cost of any such
injunction or abatement shall be charged against the property as is provided in
section
18-21 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-20. Emergency abatement by the town.
   If an unlawful condition as enumerated in this chapter exists and, as
determined by the Town Manager or their designee, the unlawful condition is
such that it is of imminent danger or peril to the health, safety, or welfare
of the general public, then the Town Manager or designee may, without notice,
cause said condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees or
agents of the town remove or otherwise abate the same and the cost thereof
shall be charged against the property as is provided in section
18-21 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-21. Collection of cost of enforcement.
   (a)   Should the town take measures to abate a nuisance as provided in this
chapter, the cost of abatement shall constitute a lien against the property
pursuant to G.S. 160A-193(b).
   (b)   In the alternative, in the discretion of the town, the cost of
enforcement may be recovered as a civil penalty by the town in a civil action
initiated by the Town Attorney, in consultation with the Town Manager, in which
the civil penalty shall be in the nature of debt as provided in G.S. 160A-175
(c).
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 18-22. Chronic violator.
   (a)   A chronic violator is a person who owns property whereupon, in the
previous calendar year, the town gave a notice of violation at least three
times for violations of this chapter.
   (b)   If a chronic violator’s property is found to be in violation of this
chapter, the town may notify the violator of the violation and, without further
notice in the calendar year in which this notice is given, take action to
remedy the violation and the expense of the action shall become a lien upon the
property and shall be collected as unpaid taxes. The initial annual notice
shall be served by registered or certified mail.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
   State law reference(s)—Annual notice to chronic violators of public nuisance
or overgrown vegetation ordinance, G.S. 160A-200.1.
Chapter 19
RESERVED
 
Chapter 20
LICENSES AND BUSINESS REGULATIONS*
----------
   *State law references—Taxation, G.S. Ch. 105; peddlers, itinerant merchants,
etc., G.S. 160A-178; regulating and licensing businesses, trades, etc., G.S.
160A-194.
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 20-1.   Licenses or permits; refusal to issue; suspension, revocation;
notice, hearing.
Sec. 20-2.   Pawnbrokers.
Sec. 20-3.   Peddlers and solicitors.
Secs. 20-4--20-24. Reserved.
Article II. Reserved
Secs. 20-25—20-66. Reserved.
Article III. Taxicabs
Division 1. Generally
Sec. 20-67.   Definitions.
Sec. 20-68.   Compliance with chapter; exception.
Sec. 20-69.   Proof of financial responsibility.
Sec. 20-70.   Records.
Sec. 20-71.   General prohibited practices.
Sec. 20-72.   Rates and charges.
Sec. 20-73.   Enforcement and penalties.
Sec. 20-74.   Defrauding taxicab.
Secs. 20-75—20-104. Reserved.
Division 2. Permits
Sec. 20-105.   Required.
Sec. 20-106.   Issuance.
Sec. 20-107.   Application.
Sec. 20-108.   Issuance standards and procedures.
Sec. 20-109.   Expiration and renewal.
Sec. 20-110.   Suspension or revocation.
Secs. 20-111--20-133. Reserved.
Division 3. Vehicles and Equipment
Sec. 20-134.   Vehicle inspection.
Sec. 20-135.   Taximeter.
Sec. 20-136.   Identifying markings required.
Secs.
20-137—20-149. Reserved.
Article IV. Towing from Private Parking Lots
Sec.
20-150.   Purpose and intent.
Sec.
20-151.   Applicability.
Sec.
20-152.   Definitions.
Sec.
20-153.   Notice required.
Sec.
20-154.   Report to police department required.
Sec.
20-155.   Response time; towing receipt required; methods of payment.
Sec.
20-156.   Release prior to tow; retrieval of personal property.
Sec.
20-157.   Regulations for tow storage lots.
Sec.
20-158.   Violations; responsible party.
Sec.
20-159.   Penalties.
Secs.
20-160—20-169. Reserved.
Article V. Business Improvement District
Sec.
20-170.   BID fee mitigation.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 20-1. Licenses or permits; refusal to issue; suspension, revocation;
notice, hearing.
   (a)   The town may refuse to issue a license or permit, or the licenses or
permits issued pursuant to this Code, unless otherwise provided hereunder, may
be suspended or revoked by the town manager or other authorized official,
department, board or agency where applicable, after notice and hearing for any
of the following causes:
   (1)   Any fraud, misrepresentations or false statements contained in the
application for permit or license;
   (2)   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares, merchandise and services;
   (3)   Any violation of this Code and/or any ordinance of the town;
   (4)   Conviction of the applicant, licensee or permittee of any crime or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or a violation of any act of this state,
or any law of the United States having a reasonable relationship to the purpose
and scope of the permit or license;
   (5)   Conducting the activity under this Code and/or any ordinance of the
town in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the
peace or to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public.
   (b)   Notice of hearing for the suspension or revocation of a license or
permit shall be in writing given by the town clerk, setting forth specifically
the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the hearing. Service of
such notice shall be made either by personal service or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the applicant, licensee or permittee at the last
known address, at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (c)   In case of refusal to issue a permit or license or the suspension or
revocation of a license or permit as herein provided, no portion of the
application, license or permit fee shall be returned to the applicant, licensee
or permittee unless otherwise provided in this Code and/or any ordinance of the
town.
   (d)   Any suspension or revocation hereunder shall not be considered a
recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty from being enforced.
   (e)   The order of the town manager or other authorized official,
department, board or agency where applicable, shall be the final municipal
action for the purpose of judicial review.
(Code 1976, § 1-12; Code 1982, § 11-4)
Sec. 20-2. Pawnbrokers.
   The provisions of G.S. ch. 66, art. 45, part 1 are hereby adopted.
(Code 1982, § 11-5; Ord. No. 89-69, § 1, 9-14-1989; Ord. No. 2013-Code-02, 6-
13-2013)
   State law reference—Authority to adopt G.S. 66-397.
Sec. 20-3. Peddlers and solicitors.
   (a)   Intent. The purpose of this section is to regulate the door-to-door
offering for sale and selling of goods, wares, merchandise, food, periodicals
and services and the solicitation of orders therefor in residential areas of
the town, and to thereby promote the public safety and welfare.
   (b)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
sell, offer for sale, or solicit orders for goods, wares, merchandise, food,
periodicals or services by going from door-to-door ("peddle" or "solicit")
within the town without having first secured a peddler/solicitor's permit from
the town as provided for in this section, unless it is done with the prior
request or invitation of the residents or occupants of the premises visited.
Additionally, it is unlawful to peddle or solicit unless the following
requirements are met:
   (1)   Such peddling/soliciting shall be permitted only between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. during eastern daylight time and 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
during eastern standard time.
   (2)   The peddler/solicitor permit issued for that person shall be carried
and displayed at all times while conducting such solicitations in such a manner
as to be clearly visible to a reasonable person of adequate vision.
   (3)   All other permits or licenses required by law shall have been
obtained.
   (c)   Permit applications. Applications for peddler/solicitor permits under
this section shall be submitted to the police department during normal business
hours (Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. eastern time) on a form
provided by the police department, under oath, and shall include, but not be
limited to, the following information:
   (1)   The full name of the applicant;
   (2)   The permanent residence address of the applicant;
   (3)   The applicant's temporary address in or in the vicinity of the town,
if applicable;
   (4)   The name and address of the applicant's employer or the organization
with which the applicant is associated in connection with the sale activity or
solicitation of orders;
   (5)   The type(s) of goods, wares, merchandise, food, periodicals and
services to be sold or offered for sale;
   (6)   The period for which the application is sought, which shall not exceed
60 consecutive calendar days; provided that the permit may be renewed for
sixty-day periods without limit, upon proper application therefor;
   (7)   A record of any and all crimes of which the applicant has been
convicted or has pleaded no contest in the ten years preceding the submittal of
the application;
   (8)   The age, height, weight, and any other additional information which
the town may reasonably require for identification, including a copy of the
document(s) used by the applicant to verify personal identification (e.g.,
driver's license, passport, picture I.D.);
   (9)   A complete listing of and information concerning all other permits or
licenses which were obtained by the applicant;
   (10)   If an application is filed by an employer, there shall also be filed
separate applications for each peddler/solicitor giving the information set
forth above for each peddler/solicitor and signed and sworn to by each peddler/
solicitor, and a separate permit shall be issued for each applicant.
   (d)   Procedures for considering applications.
   (1)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the police chief or designee
(hereafter "police chief") shall make or cause to be made such investigation as
reasonably necessary to verify the information in the application and to assure
compliance with the provisions of this section and shall issue a permit unless
the applicant:
      a.   Has not submitted a completed application;
      b.   Is not permitted by law to engage in such activity due to age;
      c.   Has been convicted of, or has pleaded no contest to, a felony charge
within the ten years preceding the submittal of the application;
      d.   Has been, within the previous five years, convicted of, or pleaded
no contest to, a misdemeanor charge involving theft, fraud, forging, uttering,
or other crimes of like nature or any crime involving moral turpitude;
      e.   Does not have valid driving privileges in the state in those cases
where the applicant will be operating a vehicle in the course and scope of the
peddling/soliciting; or
      f.   Has not obtained the necessary licenses.
   (2)   The police chief shall approve or deny an application and issue a
permit as soon as possible and, except in the case of extraordinary
circumstances, as when a number of applications are submitted within a short
period of time, should act within 72 hours of receipt of the completed
application. Such issued permit shall be nontransferable.
   (e)   Permit renewal. A peddler/solicitor permit may be renewed for an
unlimited number of sixty-day periods, provided an application for renewal is
made on such form as provided by the police chief no later than the expiration
date on the current valid permit. Applications received after that date shall
be processed as new applications. The police chief shall review each
application for renewal to determine that the applicant is in full compliance
with the provisions of this section. If the police department finds that the
application meets the above requirements, the renewal permit shall be issued.
   (f)   Appeals. The appeal of a refusal to issue a permit or the revocation
of a permit shall be made to the town manager by filing a written notice of
appeal, specifying with particularity the grounds upon which the appeal is
made, no later than ten days from the date of the refusal to issue a permit or
the revocation of a permit. The town manager or designee ("town manager") shall
fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, shall give due notice to
all parties, and shall render a decision within a reasonable time. As provided
in section
20-1(e), the order or decision of the town manager shall be final municipal
action.
   (g)   Revocation of permit. Permits issued under this section may be revoked
in accordance with section
20-1. Additional grounds for revocation of a permit include, where evidence is
presented, that the applicant has been arrested for a felony or a misdemeanor
involving theft, fraud, forgery, moral turpitude, criminal trespass, or a
threat to the public safety during the peddling/solicitation period, or has
otherwise violated the provisions of this section. A permit which has been
revoked shall be immediately surrendered to the police department. Appeals of
revocations may be made pursuant to the same process as for denied permits.
   (h)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to:
   (1)   The delivery of goods or services which have been ordered before
delivery;
   (2)   The circulation of petitions for signature or lawful distribution of
advertising materials, flyers, or materials expressing views on political,
social or religious matters;
   (3)   The lawful promotion or expression of views concerning political,
social, religious and other like matters;
   (4)   The sale or offering for sale of goods, wares, merchandise, food,
periodicals or services by bona fide members or representatives of charitable,
religious, civic, or fraternal organizations who receive no compensation of any
kind for their services, and such sale or offering by children under the age of
18 years who are students in a public or private school for school activities;
   (5)   The solicitation of contributions or pledges thereof for bona fide
nonprofit organizations;
   (6)   The sale or delivery of goods to business establishments;
   (7)   The sale or soliciting of orders for the sale of milk, dairy products,
vegetables, poultry, eggs, and other farm and garden produce so far as the sale
of such commodities named herein is now authorized by law.
   (i)   Peddling/soliciting from rights-of-way. Peddling or soliciting from
rights-of-way is prohibited in accordance with G.S. 20-175 except that the
distribution of newspapers on the non-traveled portions of a street is allowed,
provided that the distribution does not impede the normal movement of traffic.
   (j)   Penalty. Peddling or soliciting without a permit or otherwise in
violation of any of the provisions of this section, including failing to
surrender a revoked permit, shall constitute a criminal misdemeanor.
(Code 1976, § 5-4; Code 1982, § 11-3; Ord. No. 79-5, § 1, 5-31-1979; Ord. No.
96-003, § 1, 3-14-1996; Ord. No. 96-004, § 1, 4-11-1996; Ord. No. 02-001, § I,
1-10-2002; Ord. No. 2010-Code-02, 3-10-2010; Ord. No. 2015-Code-002, 6-25-2015;
Ord. No. 2022-Code-04, 9-22-2022)
   State law references—Peddling or soliciting from right-of-way, G.S. 20-175;
regulation of solicitation campaigns, flea markets and itinerant merchants,
G.S. 160A-178.
Secs. 20-4—20-24. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. RESERVED
Sec. 20-25— 20-66. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. TAXICABS*
----------
   *State law references—Municipal regulation of taxicabs and drivers, G.S. §§
20-37, 160A-304; registration of taxicabs by state, G.S. § 20-87; financial
responsibility, G.S. § 20-280.
----------
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 20-67. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Chief means the chief of police of the town of Cary and his or her designee
(s). The chief is responsible for the administration of this article.
   Driver means any person who actually drives a taxicab on the streets of the
town for hire. The term "drive" or "driving a taxicab" means driving a taxicab
for hire on such streets.
   Driver's permit means the license, issued by the chief, under which a person
may drive a taxicab for hire.
   Limousine means for hire passenger vehicles on call or demand which do not
solicit passengers indiscriminately for hire between points along streets or
highways.
   Memorandum operating permit means the card issued by the chief to a taxicab
operator for display within a taxicab indicating that an operating permit has
been issued covering the operation of such taxicab.
   Operating permit means the license issued by the chief under which a person
may operate a taxicab, and which shows that proof of financial responsibility
and other requirements of this article have been met and that the convenience
and necessity of the public requires the operation of such taxicab(s).
   Operator means any person who owns one or more taxicabs or who engages in
the operation of one or more taxicabs under a trade or service name.
   Owner means the owner of a taxicab and any person holding legal right to
possession or management of one or more vehicles being operated as a taxicab.
   Permit means an operating permit and a driver's permit, as the context
requires.
   Person means and includes an individual, partnership, corporation, limited
liability company, and all other legal entities including an association of
taxicab owners/drivers.
   Proof of financial responsibility means a certificate of any insurance
carrier duly authorized to do business in the state of North Carolina
certifying that there is in effect a policy of liability insurance insuring the
owner and operator of the taxicab, his or her agents and employees while in the
performance of their duties, against loss from any liability imposed by law for
damages including damages for care and loss of services because of bodily
injury to or death of any person and injury to or destruction of property
caused by accident and arising out of the ownership, use or operation,
including driving, of such taxicab or taxicabs in the limits required by state
law (G.S. 20-280(b)), as amended from time to time. For purposes of this
definition, the term "operator" shall mean and include any driver of the
taxicab.
   Rate card means a card for the display of the rates or fares for the use of
the taxicab.
   Taxicab means a passenger motor vehicle plying for hire for which public
patronage is accepted or solicited and which is so designed as to seat
comfortably not more than nine persons but shall not include motor vehicles or
motor vehicle carriers as defined in G.S. ch. 20, art. 17.
   Taximeter means a mechanical device which is installed in a taxicab for the
purpose of computing the fare for a trip upon the basis of distance traveled,
waiting time, or both.
(Code 1982, § 18-1; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998; Ord. No. 2015-Code-002, 6-25-
2015)
Sec. 20-68. Compliance with chapter; exception.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of operating one or
more taxicabs, or to drive any taxicab, within the corporate limits of the town
or within one mile beyond the corporate limits in every direction, unless such
person shall have complied, and shall continue to comply, with the provisions
of this chapter. Notwithstanding the preceding, taxicab drivers and operators
who are duly licensed in another jurisdiction may come into the town to pick up
or deliver persons if their services were requested by the passenger, provided
they do not solicit fares within town limits. The term "solicit fares" shall
include directing advertisement of their services toward town residents, such
as advertising in the town phone directory.
(Code 1982, § 18-2; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Sec. 20-69. Proof of financial responsibility.
   The operator and driver of every taxicab shall furnish and keep in effect
for each taxicab proof of financial responsibility. The insurance policy shall
contain a clause obligating the insurance company to give 15 days' written
notice to the chief prior to the cancellation of such insurance on any taxicab.
The operating permit for any taxicab shall be automatically revoked upon the
lapse, cancellation or termination of the insurance on that vehicle unless the
same has been renewed or replaced and a new certificate filed with the chief.
(Code 1982, § 18-3; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998; Ord. No. 2015-Code-002, 6-25-
2015)
Sec. 20-70. Records.
   Every operator and driver shall keep a daily record of all calls received
from persons requesting transportation. Every driver shall keep a record of his
or her trips, including origin, destination, fare charged, time the driver
received the passenger, the time the driver completed the trip, and the fare
received. Such information shall be recorded on the driver's trip sheet
immediately upon the completion of each trip. Such record shall be open to
inspection at all times by the police department, and the trip sheets shall be
filed chronologically by car and date at the central taxicab office of the
operator within 96 hours from first day of use and shall remain on file at such
location for a period of three months. Every taxicab driver after receiving a
call from the dispatcher to pick up a passenger shall notify the dispatcher
immediately after picking up the passenger of the time such passenger was
picked up.
(Code 1982, § 18-3.1; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Sec. 20-71. General prohibited practices.
   (a)   Prohibited practices. In addition to the practices prohibited
elsewhere in this chapter, it shall be unlawful:
   (1)   Refusal to transport passengers. For a driver to refuse to transport
any orderly person applying to driver for transportation within the limits of
the town when the taxicab has not been previously engaged by another.
   (2)   Passenger seating. For a driver to transport in a taxicab more than
the number of passengers specified as its capacity by the manufacturer at the
same time, or to transport a child under the age of three years unless the
child is in an approved child safety seat.
   (3)   Illegal use of a cab. For a driver, on or off duty, to knowingly
permit a taxicab to be used for any illegal act listed in G.S. Ch. 14, arts. 26
and 27 (being G.S. 14-177 through 14-202 and 14-203 through 14-208) or to
transport any person in a taxicab to any place used for such purposes, or to
acquire and transport in a taxicab any alcoholic beverage for another, or to
transport any person to any place where alcoholic beverages are illegally
dispensed or stored.
   (4)   Lost property. For a driver to fail, refuse or neglect to preserve any
property left in a taxicab by any passenger and to deliver it to the operator,
who shall report the same to the police department within 24 hours thereafter.
   (5)   Deviating from direct route. For a driver to fail, refuse or neglect
to proceed with all reasonable dispatch by the nearest practicable route to the
destination of the first person applying to him for transportation unless the
person has granted permission to take on or wait for additional passengers.
   (6)   Solicitation. For any person to solicit passengers for a taxicab
except the driver thereof when sitting upon the driver's seat of the vehicle.
   (7)   Illegal rates. For a driver to charge or attempt to charge a passenger
a greater or lesser rate of fare than that which is posted in the vehicle as
required by this chapter.
   (b)   Suspension/revocation of permit for violation. Upon any violation of
the provisions of this section, the driver's permit of the violator may be
suspended or revoked in accordance with the procedures provided in section
20-110.
(Code 1982, § 18-3.2; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998; Ord. No. 2010-Code-02, 3-10-
2010)
Sec. 20-72. Rates and charges.
   (a)   No person operating or driving a taxicab may charge for the use of a
taxicab within the town in an amount greater than in accordance with the
following rates:
   (1)   Mileage: Two dollars and thirty cents for the first one-sixth mile or
fraction thereof and 30 cents for each additional one-sixth mile or fraction
thereafter. At this rate, the charge for the first mile may be four dollars and
ten cents and the charge for each additional full mile may be one dollar and
eight cents.
   (2)   Waiting time: Twenty-five cents for each sixty-second period, or
fraction thereof, of waiting time.
   (3)   Foot lockers: Fifty cents each.
   (4)   Trunks: One dollar for each trunk, except where two persons are
required to handle, in which case the charge shall be one dollar and fifty
cents for each trunk.
   (5)   Hand baggage: Ten cents for each piece of hand luggage in excess of
one per person.
   (6)   Groceries in bags: Ten cents for each bag or sack in excess of one bag
per person.
   (7)   Groceries in cartons, boxes or crates: Ten cents for each container.
   (8)   Bulky items: Fifty cents for each article, container or commodity
(such as, but not limited to, bags, cartons, boxes or crates of groceries,
coal, feed, fertilizer, rolls of roofing paper and the like) weighing more than
50 pounds.
   (b)   A sign setting forth these maximum rates shall be posted inside the
taxicab at a conspicuous place where it will be visible to passengers. The
driver of the taxicab shall not reset the taximeter until the fair is paid.
(Code 1982, § 18-3.3; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998; Ord. No. 01-007, § 1, 5-10-
2001)
Sec. 20-73. Enforcement and penalties.
   (a)   Civil penalty. In addition to all other remedies and sanctions
available to the town or imposed under law, there is hereby imposed a civil
penalty in the amount of $50.00 for the first violation of any provision of
this chapter in any 12-month period and $100.00 for any subsequent violation in
a 12-month period.
   (1)   The levying of civil penalties may be initiated by any police officer
giving written notice of the violation along with a statement that a civil
penalty is being imposed. The notice shall inform the recipient that he or she
may appeal the civil penalty within ten days to the chief. If an appeal is
made, a hearing shall be held before the chief, who, following the hearing,
shall affirm or reverse the imposition of the penalty. A notice of violation
that is not appealed, or one affirmed after appeal, shall be considered finally
assessed.
   (2)   For the second and successive violations of any of the provisions of
this chapter during any 12-month period, the civil penalty shall be double that
for the first violation.
   (3)   Civil penalties shall be paid within 30 days to the office of the
revenue collector of the town. If not so paid, the town may initiate a civil
action in the name of the town in the nature of debt to collect any unpaid
penalty.
   (4)   Any permit required to be issued or renewed under this chapter shall
not be issued or renewed unless and until all civil penalties that have been
assessed against the applicant, or any employee of the applicant, have been
paid in full.
   (b)   Misdemeanor offenses. In addition to the civil penalty, violations may
also be punishable as a misdemeanor offense.
(Code 1982, § 18-3.4; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
   State law reference—Penalties for ordinance violations, G.S. 14-4, 160A-175.
Sec. 20-74.   Defrauding Taxicab.
   No person who engages, uses, employs or hires a taxicab shall fail or refuse
to pay the required rate or fare with intent to cheat and defraud the taxicab
owner or driver. Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor. This section
not only applies to intra-city trips, but also to legally licensed taxicabs
from other jurisdictions that enter the town to reach a destination, where the
failure or refusal to pay occurs within the town.
(Ord. No. 2011-Code-02, 3-10-2011)
Secs. 20-75—20-104. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. PERMITS
Sec. 20-105. Required.
   (a)   Operating permit. No person shall operate, or permit to be operated or
driven, any taxicab without first having obtained, and having in effect, an
operating permit authorizing the operation of each vehicle engaged as such.
Upon issuance of an operating permit, the chief shall also issue a memorandum
operating permit. All taxicabs shall at all times display the memorandum
operating permit covering such taxicab.
   (1)   Limitation on number of operating permits. The town council may, by
resolution, limit the total number of operating permits issued. At the time of
adoption of this chapter, the total number is 30. The chief may make
recommendations for changes in the number of available operating permits.
   (2)   Transferability. Operating permits are not transferable from one
vehicle to another, nor are they transferable between persons.
   (3)   Review of drivers. The operating permit holder shall review the
qualifications of all drivers seeking to drive the taxicab under the operating
permit. No operating permit holder shall permit or allow any driver to drive a
taxicab under his or her operating permit unless, after reasonable inquiry, it
appears that the driver has a valid state and Town of Cary taxicab driver's
permit, and has met all the requirements of this chapter for taxicab drivers.
   (4)   Required phone service. Every operating permit holder shall advertise
in the local telephone book making the public aware of the services provided by
the operator and shall operate and maintain a business location capable of
dispatching and receiving local telephone calls for service from town citizens.
   (b)   Driver's permit. No person shall drive a taxicab unless that person
shall have been issued, and shall have in effect, a driver's permit under this
chapter. An identification card containing the name and photograph of the
permit holder and the permit number shall be issued by the chief as evidence of
the driver's permit. Such identification card shall also bear the name of the
chief and the following words in bold type or print:
   PASSENGERS--FOR YOUR PROTECTION, KEEP A RECORD OF YOUR DRIVER'S NAME AND
NUMBER.
   (c)   Display of identification. Such identification shall be on display in
such a manner as to be in full view of all passengers at all times while the
driver is on duty. The driver shall retain custody of the identification card,
and present it, on demand, for inspection by any passenger or law enforcement
officer.
(Code 1982, § 18-4; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Sec. 20-106. Issuance.
   (a)   Issuance/compliance with chapter. The chief shall take applications
for, and issue, permits. No permit shall be issued to, or renewed by, any
person who has not complied with all the applicable requirements of this
chapter and paid in full all civil penalties that may have been finally
assessed hereunder. The fee for all driver's permits is $15.00.
   (b)   False information. Submission of false or misleading information to
obtain or renew a permit or in submitting reports under this chapter is
unlawful, shall be a misdemeanor, and shall be grounds for denial, suspension
or revocation of a permit.
   (c)   Right to investigate. Submission of an application for a permit shall
constitute a waiver of any privileges and rights of privacy with respect to any
document in existence reasonably related to the determination of the
applicant's qualifications and shall serve as an authorization to the chief to
make inquiry of any person or entity, and to receive any oral or written
reports from any person or entity, regarding any facts, evidence or information
reasonably related to the determination of the applicant's qualifications. The
applicant shall sign any separate written authorization that any person may
require to release documents or information concerning the applicant.
   (d)   Town property. All permits and memorandums of permit shall be and
remain the property of the town. Loss, theft, destruction or defacement shall
be immediately reported to the chief and a replacement permit obtained.
(Code 1982, § 18-5; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Sec. 20-107. Application.
   (a)   Operating permit. All applications for an operating permit shall be
submitted by the owner. The applicant shall file with the chief a sworn
application, in duplicate, on forms provided by the chief. If the applicant
desires an operating permit for more than one taxicab, such application may be
made on one form and shall provide supporting information for each taxicab for
which an operating permit is desired. If the applicant is a corporation, then
the information requested about the applicant shall also be provided about each
officer, director and about each stockholder owning 20 percent or more of the
outstanding stock. If the applicant is a limited liability company, such
information shall be provided about its managers and each of its members. If
the operator is a partnership, such information shall be provided about each of
its partners. The application must contain the following information:
   (1)   Information reasonably necessary to identify the applicant. If the
applicant is a corporation or a limited liability company, the application
shall include a certified copy of the articles of incorporation or
organization, as the case may be.
   (2)   Description of the experience of the applicant in the transportation
of passengers for hire.
   (3)   Description of any unpaid or unbonded judgments of record against the
applicant, including the title of all actions, the amount of each judgment and
judgment docket reference information.
   (4)   Court records of the applicant and of any person who functions as a
general manager. Fingerprints of the applicant shall be submitted so a
fingerprint check can be made.
   (5)   An accurate and complete description of the proposed or actual taxicab
operation and any other information necessary in order for the chief to
evaluate the applicant's ability to provide and maintain taxicab service as
required under this chapter.
   (6)   Information concerning each taxicab for which an operating permit is
sought, as follows:
      a.   Full name, address and phone number of the taxicab owner;
      b.   Full description of the vehicle, including make, type, year of
manufacture, state license number, engine and serial number, cab number, color
scheme, lettering and marks, and its seating capacity exclusive of the driver;
      c.   Proof of financial responsibility for each taxicab;
      d.   Description of all liens, mortgages, and other encumbrances on the
taxicab, and lienholder, amount and character thereof;
      e.   Such other information, evidence and documents, as the chief may
require to assure that the requirements of this chapter have been or will be
met.
   (b)   Driver's permit. All applicants for a driver's permit shall file with
the chief a sworn application, in duplicate, on forms provided by the chief
which shall require submission of such information as may be needed by the
chief to conduct a background investigation on the applicant. By submitting an
application for a driver's permit, applicants agree that they accept the town's
taxicab driver's dress code. Applicants agree to be clean and neat in
appearance and not wear flip-flops or sandals, tank or T shirts, or shorts
while on duty as a taxicab driver. All applications shall provide the following
information:
   (1)   Applicant's full name, age, date of birth, place of birth, business
and home address and phone numbers, state driver's license number and a
physical description, including height, weight, sex, race, color of eyes and
hair, complexion, and body and facial marks, if any;
   (2)   The length of time the applicant has resided in the town and in the
state, and citizenship information;
   (3)   A current health certificate issued by the health department, or by a
licensed physician, within the previous 12 months stating that the applicant
has no impairments that would endanger the life of any passenger riding in the
taxicab;
   (4)   Applicant's employment history for the previous ten years and previous
experience driving taxicabs and other vehicles for hire;
   (5)   Applicant's court and driving records;
   (6)   Two copies of a photograph taken within the previous six months and a
completed fingerprint card;
   (7)   A letter of introduction from the operator who proposes to hire the
driver, if any, and affidavits of good character from two reputable citizens
who have personal knowledge of the applicant.
(Code 1982, § 18-6; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998; Ord. No. 2015-Code-002, 6-25-
2015)
Sec. 20-108. Issuance standards and procedures.
   (a)   Investigation. The chief shall cause an investigation to be made of
the applicant. No permit shall be issued or renewed unless the applicant meets
the requirements of this chapter including the following:
   (1)   Is at least 18 years of age or is otherwise legally emancipated and is
a U.S. citizen or possesses documentation of eligibility to work in the United
States;
   (2)   Has neither entered a plea of guilty or no contest to nor has been
convicted of or had an order entered continuing prayer for judgment to any of
the following:
      a.   Any felony against the state or any offense against another state
which would have been a felony if committed in North Carolina;
      b.   Any federal or state law relating to the use, possession, or sale of
alcoholic beverages or narcotic or barbiturate drugs;
      c.   Any federal or state law relating to prostitution;
   (3)   Is not a habitual user of, or addicted to, narcotic or barbiturate
drugs or intoxicating liquors;
   (4)   Has no unpaid and unbonded judgments of record against the applicant;
or, if such exist, demonstrates the establishment and maintenance of regular
periodic payments in discharge of the liability;
   (5)   Provides proof of financial responsibility;
   (6)   Has not had any permit issued under this chapter revoked within the 24
months preceding the application;
   (7)   Has paid in full any civil penalties finally assessed under this
chapter;
   (8)   Must also, if an applicant for an operating permit:
      a.   Not be in default in the payment of any indebtedness secured by
lien, mortgage or any other encumbrance on the vehicle intended to be operated
pursuant to the operating permit;
      b.   Have properly registered the vehicle to be operated with the state,
and secured required state inspections and inspections in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter;
   (9)   Must also, if an applicant for a driver's permit:
      a.   Be physically and mentally capable of safely driving a taxicab;
      b.   Possess a valid state driver's license issued to him or her;
      c.   Have an operating permit or permission from an operating permit
holder to operate a taxicab under the operating permit;
      d.   Have not habitually violated traffic laws or ordinances. Habitual
violation shall be deemed to mean more than two violations in any 12-month
period of time;
      e.   Have not, within the previous 12 months, had a revocation or
suspension of 60 days or more of his or her driver's license for convictions of
moving violations; or, within the previous 24 months, been convicted of, or
entered a plea of guilty or no contest to, driving under the influence of
alcohol or drugs, or a substantially equivalent offense; or has not
accumulated, within the three-year period preceding the application, 12 or more
points under G.S. 20-16, or six or more points within the three-year period
following the reinstatement of a state driver's license which had been
suspended or revoked.
   (b)   Appeal. In the event the chief, or designee, denies issuance of a
permit, such person shall specify, in writing, the grounds for such denial. The
applicant shall have a period of ten days from receipt of notification of the
denial and grounds therefor within which to appeal the denial to the chief or
the town manager, pursuant to the procedures specified in section
20-110.
(Code 1982, § 18-7; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Sec. 20-109. Expiration and renewal.
   (a)   Permits shall expire 12 months from the date of issue. Applications
for renewal of permits shall be made at least 30 days prior to the date of
expiration of the existing permit in the same manner as the application for an
original permit, on such forms as may be required by the chief.
   (b)   The chief may refuse to renew an operating permit if the taxicab for
which the permit was issued has not been in regular use and service in the town
in the three months preceding the application for renewal. The purpose of this
provision is to assure that the full allocation of operating permits are
allocated to taxicabs that are actually used in service in the town.
(Code 1982, § 18-8; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Sec. 20-110. Suspension or revocation.
   (a)   Grounds. In addition to any other penalty provided for, the chief
shall have the right to suspend or revoke any permit if the applicant or
permittee:
   (1)   Fails to operate the taxicab or taxicab business or to drive the
taxicab in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, or fails to
continuously meet the standards set forth in section
20-108;
   (2)   Fails to continuously maintain proof of financial responsibility;
   (3)   Submits or causes to be submitted false or misleading information on
any application or report required under this chapter.
   (b)   Procedure. When grounds for suspension or revocation exist, the chief
shall, by registered or certified letter, give notice to the permittee that the
permit is suspended or revoked and must be immediately surrendered. It shall be
unlawful for the person to whom the permit was issued to fail to return same to
the chief. The permittee shall have ten days from the receipt of such notice to
appeal the determination to the chief, if the initial determination was made by
a designee of the chief, and to the town manager if the initial determination
was made by the chief himself, by filing a written notice of appeal with the
person who made the initial determination and the chief or the town manager, as
the case may be. Such notice of appeal shall specify with particularity all the
grounds for the appeal. The permit shall remain suspended or revoked pending
such appeal. If no notice of appeal is filed within the allotted time, any
right to an appeal is considered waived at the expiration of the ten-day
period. If an appeal is filed and a hearing held and the suspension or
revocation is confirmed by the chief, the permittee shall have ten days from
receipt of the determination to appeal to the town manager by filing a written
notice of appeal with the chief and the town manager. If an appeal was filed
and a hearing held and the suspension or revocation was confirmed by the town
manager, then the holder may not reapply for a taxicab permit for a minimum of
12 months.
(Code 1982, § 18-9; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998; Ord. No. 2019-Code-03, 9-26-
2019)
Secs. 20-111--20-133. Reserved.
DIVISION 3. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
Sec. 20-134. Vehicle inspection.
   (a)   Upon application for permit and periodically. In addition to annual
state safety inspections, vehicles must be inspected under this chapter upon
the filing of an application, or renewal application, for an operating permit.
The chief may also, from time to time, cause to be made an inspection of
taxicabs. If any vehicle is found to be unsafe or unfit for operation, notice
shall be given to the driver and the operating permit holder and such vehicle
shall not be operated until the same has been put in safe and fit condition.
   (b)   Inspection items. The inspection may include and cover the brakes,
lights, horn, tires, all other safety features of the vehicle, a road test of
the vehicle, an inspection and test of the taximeter, and an inspection of the
interior of the taxicab with respect to the general condition of the
upholstery, rugs, or floor covering and general cleanliness thereof and an
inspection of the exterior condition of the vehicle which must be free of torn,
flaking or protruding metal which could constitute a safety hazard.
Additionally, the following, in good working order, is required on every
taxicab:
   (1)   An electric light indicator on top of the vehicle no less than ten
inches in width and four inches in depth and height designed so that when the
taximeter is engaged the light is burning;
   (2)   A standard speedometer, visible to passengers, properly installed and
maintained in good working order. No taxicab shall be operated as a taxicab if
such speedometer is out of repair or disconnected;
   (3)   A heater and air conditioner sufficient to adequately heat and cool
the interior of the taxicab in cold or warm weather, respectively;
   (4)   A frame or other device to display the driver's permit, memorandum
operating permit and rate card to passengers;
   (5)   Taximeter as required by section
20-135. No taxicab shall be driven as a taxicab if the taximeter is out of
repair or disconnected;
   (6)   Approved and working seat belts available to any passenger within the
taxicab;
   (7)   Windshields, side and rear glass clear and free of dirt, discoloration
and cracks;
   (8)   A two-way radio or cellular phone providing direct communication for
immediate dispatching;
   (9)   Tires with a tread of at least three-thirty-seconds of an inch;
   (10)   Removable floor mats of rubber or other nonabsorbent material;
   (11)   Neat and sanitary interior with upholstery that is free of stains and
tears and of original manufacturer's design and type with no temporary seat
covers;
   (12)   Such other items as may be required by this chapter.
   (c)   Inspection decal. The chief may require that taxicabs that have been
inspected and found to be in clean and proper condition display an inspection
decal issued by the chief and displayed in a location to be determined by the
chief. At such time as the chief commences issuing inspection decals, no
taxicab shall be operated on the streets of the town without displaying a
current valid inspection decal.
   (d)   Removal from service. The discovery of any inadequacy in any of the
items required to be inspected or tested by this chapter shall cause the
taxicab to be removed from service until the taxicab has been repaired and
complies with the requirements of this chapter. Such removal may be appealed to
the chief in accordance with section
20-110 but the vehicle shall remain out of service pending the decision of the
chief.
(Code 1982, § 18-10; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Sec. 20-135. Taximeter.
   (a)   No person may operate or drive a taxicab unless the taxi is equipped
with a taximeter of a design approved by the chief. In order to be approved, a
taximeter must show, in figures which are plainly visible to a passenger, the
amount of the fare.
   (b)   No taxicab shall be driven while occupied by a person other than the
driver with the signal affixed to such taximeter in such a position as to
denote such vehicle is not employed or in such a position as to denote that it
is employed at a rate of fare different from that which is required by this
chapter.
   (c)   No person shall operate or drive a taxicab if the seal is broken on
the taximeter, or after the installation of a new or different taximeter, or
after any repairs or alterations are made to the taximeter or to the taxicab,
if the repairs or alterations to the taxicab will affect the operation of the
taximeter in any manner, until the taximeter has been submitted to a taximeter
repair mechanic designated by the chief for inspection and test for accuracy.
The taximeter repair mechanic shall cause a seal to be affixed to all
taximeters that pass inspections.
   (d)   No person shall use or permit to be used upon any taxicab a taximeter
which shall be in such condition as to be more than five percent from absolute
accuracy.
(Code 1982, § 18-11; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Sec. 20-136. Identifying markings required.
   (a)   Identification scheme. Each operator shall adopt a color scheme or
other identifying markings for identifying its taxicabs distinct from that of
any other operator or firm and shall file such identification scheme with the
chief. All additional, new or replacement vehicles put in operation by such
operator shall comply with the identification scheme selected. No
identification scheme shall be used unless filed with and approved by the
chief, and no identification scheme shall be accepted by the chief if it in any
way would be confused with the identification scheme of another operator,
association or firm.
   (b)   Display of name/number/rate. The operator or operator's trade name,
taxicab number and telephone number shall be painted with permanent paint or
appear on a permanent decal on both sides and rear of each taxicab, with
letters and numbers four inches high or greater. The taxicab number on the rear
shall be at a location designated by the chief. There shall be painted on each
side of the taxicab in letters and numbers at least three inches high the basic
mileage rates. The color to be used for lettering and numbers shall be of sharp
contrast to color or surface paint to which applied, so as to be easily visible
at a reasonable distance, especially at nighttime with street lights. No
lettering or numbers shall be acceptable which have been painted upon a sheet
of metal or other material which, in turn, can be removed or detached to
conceal the identification of the operator or taxicab number.
(Code 1982, § 18-12; Ord. No. 98-022, 12-10-1998)
Secs. 20-137--20-149. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. TOWING FROM PRIVATE PARKING LOTS
Sec. 20-150. Purpose and intent.
   (a)   The town council of the Town of Cary has a significant governmental
interest in protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the general public
and preserving the public order.
   (b)   G.S. 160A-174 allows a municipality by ordinance to define, prohibit,
regulate, or abate acts, omissions, or conditions, detrimental to the health,
safety, or welfare of the public, and the peace and dignity of the
municipality.
   (c)   Some practices related to the non-consensual towing of motor vehicles
from parking lots located on private property have exposed the public or
members of the towing industry to harm. Non-consensual towing can leave
unknowing drivers without means of transportation and can lead to altercations
between vehicle owners and towing personnel.
   (d)   The Cary Town Council desires to minimize and control the harmful and
adverse effects resulting from the non-consensual towing of motor vehicles from
parking lots located on private property, while also protecting lot owners’ and
lessees’ property rights by ensuring that parking is available to those
lawfully present on the property.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-151. Applicability.
   (a)   The provisions of this article apply to any private property used for
residential or non-residential purposes, upon which a private parking lot is
located.
   (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, this article does not apply to the
towing, removal, or immobilization of a motor vehicle (i) if the motor vehicle
obstructs adequate ingress and egress to, from, or within a private parking
lot; (ii) if the motor vehicle has been abandoned on private property without
the consent of the private property; or (iii) if the motor vehicle is being
removed pursuant to the direction of a law enforcement officer or otherwise in
accordance with the provisions of this Code or state law.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-152. Definitions.
   (a)   “Motor vehicle” shall have the definition provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
   (b)   “Private parking lot” means a lot, garage, or other parking facility
not owned or leased by the Town or another governmental entity.
   (c)   “Towing or storage service” means any person or other entity, whether
licensed or not, that engages in or who owns or operates a business which
engages, in whole or in part, in the towing or removal of motor vehicles for
compensation.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-153. Notice required.
   (a)   No motor vehicle may be towed from a private parking lot unless such
towing meets the requirements of G.S. 20-219.2 and:
      (1)   One or more signs meeting at least one of the following
requirements is posted as follows:
         a.   a sign prominently placed at each entrance allowing vehicular
access to the private parking (“Entrance Sign”); or
         b.   if there are no curb or access barriers, at least one sign posted
for every 50 feet of the frontage of the private parking lot to a public street
(“Frontage Sign”); or
         c.   a sign posted at each parking space from which an unauthorized
motor vehicle could be towed, removed, or immobilized (“Parking Space Sign”).
      (2)   The posted sign(s) complies with the following.
         a.   Entrance or Frontage Signs shall be at least 24 inches by 24
inches in size, and shall not exceed six square feet.
         b.   Parking Space Signs shall be at least 12 inches by 18 inches in
size, and shall not exceed six square feet.
         c.   All signs required by this Ordinance shall be permanently
installed with the bottom of the sign not less than four feet above ground
level, and not more than five feet above ground level. Pedestrian safety shall
be taken into consideration when locating freestanding signs.
      (3)   The sign(s) required by this Ordinance shall clearly display the
following:
         a.   The words “tow-away,” “tow-away zone,” or “towing enforced,” or
similar phrase. This phrase shall be formed by letters that are not less than
one and one-half (1 1/2) inches high, and shall be on a contrasting background.
         b.   Indication that parking by unauthorized motor vehicles is
prohibited by a phrase such as “private parking,” “leased parking,” “no
parking,” “parking for customers only,” “parking for residents only,” or a
similar phrase. This phrase shall be formed by letters that are not less than
one and one-half (1 1/2) inches high, and the background shall be on a
contrasting background.
            1.   If parking by unauthorized motor vehicles is prohibited on a
24-hour per day basis, then that prohibition shall be posted, and state the
days of the week and hours of the day during which that prohibition is in
effect.
            2.   If parking by unauthorized motor vehicles is not prohibited on
a 24-hour basis, then the days of the week and hours of the day during which
parking is prohibited shall be posted.
         c.   If motor vehicles are subject to immediate towing when the motor
vehicle operator steps off the property, whether the operator conducts business
on the property or not, then the signs required by this Ordinance shall include
the language “If you leave this property, your vehicle is subject to being
towed. This includes patrons who are frequenting business on this property” or
similar language which conveys the message that even if a business on the
property was or will be frequented, if the operator leaves the property, the
vehicle may be towed. This message shall be formed by letters that are not less
than one and one-half (1 1/2) inches high, and shall be on a contrasting
background.
         d.   The name and telephone number of the towing and storage service
at which a person available to release the motor vehicle that has been towed,
removed, or immobilized may be contacted. The name and telephone number shall
be formed by letters that are not less than one and one-half (1 1/2) inches
high, and shall be on a contrasting background.
         e.   Language such as “If a tow has been initiated but the vehicle has
not been removed from the parking lot, the vehicle must be released upon
payment of a release fee” or similar. This message shall be formed by letters
that are not less than one and one-half (1 1/2) inches high, and shall be on a
contrasting background.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-154. Report to police department required.
   Any towing service that engages in a tow subject to this article must,
within 15 minutes of removing the motor vehicle from the private property,
report to the Cary Police Department by telephone communication the fact that a
motor vehicle was towed. The tow service must also provide the police
department with (i) a description of the motor vehicle including make, color,
and license tag number; (ii) the location from where the motor vehicle was
towed; and (iii) the location of the storage lot where the motor vehicle is
intended to be held.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-155. Response time; towing receipt required; methods of payment.
   (a)   The towing or storage service shall maintain a telephone number for
the purpose of receiving calls from the owners or operators of towed motor
vehicles. Calls to the telephone number (i) shall be immediately answered by a
person; or (ii) a call back shall be initiated, by a person, within 30 minutes
of a message being left on voice mail or answering machine type device. A
person with the authority and ability to release the motor vehicle shall
respond to the location of the vehicle within two hours of a request for
release being made during a phone call or by voice mail or answering machine
message; unless (i) the request for release is made between the hours of 12:00
a.m. and 6:00 a.m. and (ii) the motor vehicle was towed more than two hours
before the request for release was made, in which case a person with the
authority and ability to release the motor vehicle shall respond to the
location of the vehicle at or before 8:00 a.m.
   (b)   The towing or storage service shall provide a receipt for each payment
at the time the payment is made. Each receipt shall be legible and shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the towing service.
      (2)   Sufficient information to allow the employee who towed the motor
vehicle to be identified.
      (3)   A total fee with a breakdown of towing and storage fees.
      (4)   A clear and accurate reason for the towing and the date and time of
the towing. Receipts shall not use descriptions that might cause individuals to
associate private property towing with municipal action.
   (c)   The towing or storage service shall accept as payment for any fees
related to towing regulated by this Ordinance (i) cash; and (ii) either
MasterCard or Visa; and (iii) one other nationally recognized credit or debit
card (such as MasterCard, Visa, American Express, Discover, or JCB).
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-156. Release prior to tow; retrieval of personal property.
   (a)   Any tow service that has initiated a tow subject to this Ordinance by,
at a minimum, positioning a tow truck or wrecker in preparation for securing
the motor vehicle to the tow truck by a hook, chain, cable, or similar device,
but has not removed the motor vehicle from the private parking lot, must upon
request of the motor vehicle operator, release the motor vehicle upon payment
of a release fee.
   (b)   Any towing or storage service subject to this article shall, upon
request of the motor vehicle owner or operator, permit the motor vehicle owner,
operator, or designee to have access to the motor vehicle for the purpose of
retrieving personal property from the motor vehicle.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-157. Regulations for tow storage lots.
   (a)   The tow storage lot shall be located within 15 miles of the parking
lot from which the motor vehicle is towed.
   (b)   Tow storage lots shall be clearly signed in accordance with all
applicable local and state requirements, stating the name, address, and
telephone number of the tow storage lot. Tow storage lots shall be secured and
lighted in such a manner as to keep the motor vehicle safe from break-ins or
damage while in storage. The storage yard shall be fenced and have surface
lighting sufficient for transacting nighttime business.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-158. Violations; responsible party.
   Failure to conduct a tow in compliance with the requirements of this Article
IV is a violation of this Article IV. In addition, it is a violation of this
Article IV to:
   (a)   conduct a non-consensual tow from a private parking lot that is not
properly posted pursuant to section
20-153;
   (b)   to engage a towing company to conduct non-consensual towing from a
private parking lot if the private parking lot is not properly posted pursuant
to section
20-153; or
   (c)   to engage a towing company that does not meet the requirements of this
Article IV to conduct non-consensual towing from a private parking lot.
   Any person or towing company who conducts a non-consensual tow in violation
of this Article IV, and any person who engages a towing company in violation of
this Article IV, may be charged with violation of this Article IV. A person
shall be deemed to have engaged a towing company if that person owns, manages,
or operates any private parking lot, or portion thereof, from which a towing
company performs non-consensual tows.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Sec. 20-159. Penalties.
   (a)   Civil penalty. Violation of this Article IV shall subject the offender
(s) to a civil penalty in the amount of $100.00. In the event there is more
than one violation within any one-year period, then the civil penalty shall be
increased for each additional violation over one during such period, as
follows.
      Second offense within one year: $250.00
      Third offense within one year: $500.00
      Fourth offense within one year: $750.00
      Fifth and any subsequent offense within one year: $1,000.00
      (1)   Once the one year period has run from the "first violation," the
next violation shall be considered to be a first violation for the purposes of
establishing a new one year period.
      (2)   Violators shall pay any issued penalty within 72 hours of the issue
date and time. The town attorney, or designee, is authorized to file suit on
behalf of the town to collect any unpaid citations, and the police chief, or
designee, is authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the town in
such suits. A police officer may issue a citation for violations of this
article.
      (3)   Appeal of a civil penalty amount may be made to the Town Manager or
designee within 30 calendar days from the date of issuance by filing an appeal
stating with specificity the grounds for the appeal and the reasons the penalty
should be reduced or abated. In considering the appeal, the penalty or fine,
the Town Manager or designee may consider the following:
         a.   the gravity of the violation;
         b.   any action taken by the violator to correct the violation;
         c.   the cost of the action to correct the violation; and
         d.   any previous violations committed by the violator, on the same or
different site.
   (b)   Remedies. This article may also be enforced through equitable remedies
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   Criminal penalty. In addition to, or in lieu of, such civil penalties
or other remedies, violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-03, § 1, 2-23-2017)
Secs. 20-160—20-169. Reserved.
ARTICLE V.
BUSINESS IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT
Sec. 20-170.   BID fee mitigation.
   (a)   BID Fee Mitigation Program and Purpose. To support, encourage and
advance the timing of construction of new development that significantly
advances and supports the six policies for Cary’s Downtown (“Downtown
Policies”) set forth in the Imagine Cary Community Plan (“ICCP”), the Town may
itself pay BID Fee Mitigation for any development, redevelopment, or reuse
project (“Development”) in Cary’s Downtown Business Improvement District (“BID”
or “Downtown”) that would
otherwise be required to pay Development Fees (as defined herein).
   (b)   Eligibility. To be eligible for BID Fee Mitigation the Developer must
demonstrate all of (i) through (v) that follow:
      (1)   the Development for which the BID Fee Mitigation is proposed is
located within the BID;
      (2)   if the developer is not the property owner, the developer must
demonstrate it has a legally enforceable right to acquire and develop the
property that constitutes the Development;
      (3)   the Development must be the subject of a Development Agreement
between the developer and the Town;
      (4)   the Development Agreement must provide for payment of BID Fee
Mitigation by the Town;
      (5)   the Development Agreement must address Development of the property
in a manner that meets or addresses at least one of the following:
         a.   is consistent with and advances the ICCP vision of a vibrant,
sustainable, and pedestrian-oriented Downtown;
         b.   has an emphasis on office, denser residential, retail,
entertainment and/or civic uses;
         c.   meets to an acceptable degree one or more of the Downtown
Policies, including:
            1.   highlights and complements the character of the ICCP Downtown
Subarea in which it is located through architectural design and public art;
            2.   contributes to a common identity for and experience in
Downtown, including framing the streetscape and helping to define the unique
character for the ICCP Downtown Subarea in which it is located;
            3.   increases connectivity and cohesion between Downtown Subareas;
            4.   supports a multi-activity destination with parking and related
infrastructure for biking, walking, transit and driving; or
            5.   includes a range of uses.
   (c)   Definitions. For purposes of this section
20-170, the following definitions apply.
      BID Fee Mitigation means the payment by the Town of all or a portion of
the Development Fees for an approved Development.
      Development Agreement means a Reimbursement Agreement as defined in LDO
section
3.24; a façade improvement agreement; an agreement authorized by G.S. Chapter
158, Article 1; Chapter 160D, Article 10; or 160D-1315; or any agreement
approved by Council.
      Development Fees means utility system development fees; transportation
development fees; and/or in the case of multi-family residential development,
multi-family recreation fund payments.
   (d)   Payment. Payment for approved BID Fee Mitigation and other terms and
conditions of the BID Fee Mitigation shall be in accordance with the
Development Agreement.
(Ord. No. 2020-Code-02, § 1, 8-20-2020; Ord. No. 2021-Code-02, 6-24-2021)
Chapter 21
RESERVED
 
Chapter 22
OFFENSES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS*
----------
   *State law references—Criminal law, G.S. Ch. 14; general welfare power of
municipalities, G.S. § 160A-174.
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 22-1.   Placing advertising in motor vehicles.
Sec. 22-2.   Heavy articles; unloading on buffer.
Secs. 22-3--22-22. Reserved.
Article II. Offenses Involving Property Rights
Sec. 22-23.   Damage to flowers, trees and shrubs.
Secs. 22-24--22-49. Reserved.
Article III. Offenses Involving Public Safety
Sec. 22-50.   Electric fences.
Sec. 22-51.   Prohibition of the carrying and display of handguns, firearms and
other weapons at certain public locations.
Sec. 22-52.   Discharging firearms or other projectile weapons.
Sec. 22-53.   Graffiti.
Secs. 22-54--22-77. Reserved.
Article IV. Offenses Involving Public Peace and Order
Division 1. Generally
Sec. 22-78.   Disturbing public meeting.
Sec. 22-79.   Consumption and possession of malt beverages and unfortified wine
on town property and town streets.
Sec. 22-80.   Hotel guest registration.
Sec. 22-81.   Safe and orderly use of public transportation system.
Sec. 22-82.   Public urination and defecation prohibited.
Sec. 22-83.   Public lewdness.
Sec. 22-84.   Injury or defacement of town property.
Sec. 22-85.   Summary removal of unattended property.
Sec. 22-86.   Trespass in/on a vehicle.
Sec. 22-87.   Safe and orderly use of off-street parking decks and facilities
of the Town of Cary.
Sec. 22-88.   Enforcement and civil penalties.
Secs. 22-89—22-101. Reserved.
Division 2. Noise
Sec. 22-102.   Statement of purpose and intent; loud, disturbing noises
prohibited, generally.
Sec. 22-103.   Definitions.
Sec. 22-104.   Noise measurement.
Sec. 22-105.   Exceptions.
Sec. 22-106.   Prohibited sounds.
Sec. 22-107.   Sounds impacting residential life.
Sec. 22-108.   Motor vehicles.
Sec. 22-109.   Amplified sound.
Sec. 22-110.   Permits.
Sec. 22-111.   Responsible party.
Sec. 22-112.    Enforcement and penalties.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 22-1. Placing advertising in motor vehicles.
   No person shall distribute handbills, circulars, dodgers, pamphlets, cards,
pictures or any advertising matter of any kind by placing the same in or upon
any motor vehicle standing or parked in the streets or other public places
except in a manner that will prevent them from being blown about or scattered
by the elements.
(Code 1976, § 10-24; Code 1982, § 11-1)
Sec. 22-2. Heavy articles; unloading on buffer.
   No person shall push, roll, drag over, unload, drop or throw onto any street
or sidewalk any object, box, barrel, case or any article of sufficient weight
to be injurious to the street or sidewalk without preparing a suitable buffer
of sufficient size and thickness to prevent damage.
(Code 1976, § 14-48; Code 1982, § 12-143)
Secs. 22-3--22-22. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY RIGHTS
Sec. 22-23. Damage to flowers, trees and shrubs.
   Any person desiring to remove, destroy, cut, or severely prune, including
the root system, any tree or shrub in or upon any public street right-of-way or
public property owned by the town, shall first obtain the permission of the
director of public works or designee. Such permission shall be granted upon a
showing that such work is necessary for other permitted projects or for
preservation of public safety. Any work performed must be done in strict
compliance with the conditions set forth in granting such permission, except
permission shall not be required for the development of any property for a site
plan, as required under the land development ordinance. Individual permission
shall not be required of public and private utilities, including CATV
installations and water and sewer regulations by or at the direction of the
town, provided that the company's written pruning and trenching specifications
have first been received and approved by the director of public works.
(Code 1976, § 10-17; Code 1982, § 13-2; Ord. No. 87-104, § 1, 12-10-1987; Ord.
No. 92-25, § 1, 2-13-1992; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Secs. 22-24--22-49. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC SAFETY
Sec. 22-50. Electric fences.
   No person shall erect, install or construct, operate or maintain, or allow
the installation or operation of a fence or similar structure or device which
is electrically charged, within the corporate limits.
(Code 1976, § 10-6; Code 1982, § 13-9)
Sec. 22-51. Prohibition of the carrying and display of handguns, firearms and
other weapons at certain public locations.
   (a)   Concealed handguns.
      (1)   Possession prohibited. No person shall carry a concealed handgun in
town-owned buildings, on the appurtenant premises of those buildings, or in
town recreational facilities as defined by G.S. 14-415.23, which are all town
athletic fields and athletic facilities. A list of recreational facilities
shall be set out in a Schedule of Recreational Facilities at which Concealed
Handguns are Prohibited which shall be updated as necessary and retained
permanently in the office of the Director, Parks, Recreation and Cultural
Resources. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this section shall
prohibit a concealed handgun permittee from securing the handgun within an
enclosed compartment of a locked motor vehicle.
      (2)   Posting required. The director of public works or designee is
hereby authorized and instructed to post conspicuous signage at appropriate
locations on or within each recreational facility and each building and the
grounds and parking areas of such buildings owned, leased as lessee, operated,
occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as any other appurtenant
premises to such buildings, indicating that carrying a concealed handgun on the
properties and locations described in this section is prohibited therein and
thereon unless specifically permitted or authorized by state law or the
provisions of the town's code of ordinances. The director of public works or
designee shall exercise discretion in determining the number and appropriate
location of signs to be placed.
   (b)   Other firearms and weapons.
      (1)   No person shall display any firearm in public-owned buildings, on
the grounds or parking areas of those buildings, or in public parks and
recreation areas, including town greenways. On all other public property within
the town, including public streets, alleys, and sidewalks, display of firearms
shall comply with the following:
         (a)   no firearms other than handguns, as defined in G.S. 14-409.39,
may be displayed;
         (b)   the handgun shall be holstered such that firing of the weapon is
not possible;
         (c)   the handgun shall be clearly visible and not concealed or
partially concealed;
         (d)   display of handguns is prohibited for any person while consuming
alcohol or at any time while the person has remaining in the person's body any
alcohol or in the person's blood a controlled substance previously consumed,
but a person does not violate this condition if a controlled substance in the
person's blood was lawfully obtained and taken in therapeutically appropriate
amounts;
         (e)   display of handguns is prohibited on any public streets,
including adjacent sidewalks, that have been closed by the chief of police or
designee pursuant to Section
34-74; and
         (f)   display of handguns is prohibited within the area and boundaries
of the Lazy Daze Arts & Crafts Festival during the times listed in Section
24-18, and within the area and boundaries of any other town-sponsored event to
which the provisions of Section
24-18 are made to apply by the town council.
      (2)   No person shall display any deadly weapon as defined in G.S. 14-269
(a), or any knife having a blade of three inches or longer, BB gun, air gun,
paintball gun, airsoft gun, bow and arrow or any type of lethal weapon, while
on any public street, alley, sidewalk or other public property within the town,
including town greenways, unless specifically permitted or authorized by law.
No person shall carry or have possession of a knife having a blade of three
inches or longer, a BB gun, air gun, paintball gun, airsoft gun, bow and arrow
or any type of lethal weapon in any park, including town greenways.
      (3)   This subsection (b) is not applicable to concealed handguns, which
are governed by subsection (a) above.
   (c)   Exceptions. The possession or display of a firearm or other weapon is
exempt from the provisions of this section
22-51 in the following situations:
      (1)   If the chief of police, or designee, has authorized the public
possession or display of a firearm, or other weapon, as part of an official
program or event sponsored or sanctioned by the town.
      (2)   If the possession or display of the firearm, or other weapon, was
the result of an individual(s) exercising his or her legitimate right to self
defense or the defense of others as allowed by law.
      (3)   If the possession or display of the firearm, or other weapon, was
conducted by a person(s) authorized by law to carry and display such items as
part of their official or otherwise recognized lawful duties (e.g., law
enforcement officers, military personnel, security guards, etc.).
      (4)   If the possession or display of the firearm, or other weapon, was
necessary for the temporary transport and securing of the item and was not
otherwise in violation of existing statutes or ordinances (e.g., recent
purchase and movement to vehicle for transport, securing of firearm by CCH
permit holder in vehicle, found item to be turned in to authorities, firearm in
approved vehicle gun rack, etc.).
      (5)   The possession or display of a knife with a blade longer than three
inches in Symphony Lake park property and Fred G. Bond Metro Park when used for
fishing purposes only.
      (6)   The possession or display of a knife with a blade longer than three
inches for the performance of the duties of a town employee or contractor.
   (d)   Violation. The carrying of concealed handguns or the possession or
display of any firearm or other weapon as defined in this section, in or upon
any of the locations specified by this section, shall constitute a misdemeanor
and subject any violator(s) so convicted to such penalties as may be imposed by
the court.
(Code 1982, § 13-9.1; Ord. No. 95-031, 12-14-1995; Ord. No. 01-010, 5-24-2001;
Ord. No. 06-010, 6-22-2006; Ord. No. 2011-Code-08, 11-17-2011; Ord. No. 2013-
Code-03, 9-12-2013)
   State law reference—Local regulation of firearms, G.S. 14-415.23; 14-409.40;
160A-189.
Sec. 22-52. Discharging firearms or other projectile weapons.
   (a)   No person shall fire or otherwise discharge any type of firearm, air
gun, gun or pistol, or any spring gun, pistol, or other similar device which
impels with force any projectile, shot or pellet of any kind within the
corporate limits, unless:
   (1)   Such firing or discharge is made pursuant to an approved recreational
or instructional program supervised by competent authority acceptable to either
the director of parks and recreation or the chief of police; or
   (2)   When lawfully used in defense of person or property or pursuant to
lawful directions of law enforcement officers.
   (b)   Police officers performing official duties are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (c)   It shall be unlawful to discharge a bow and arrow or crossbow within
the town limits unless carried out under the following restrictions and
conditions:
   (1)   If used for target shooting, the arrows must be discharged into an
archery backstop made for the purpose of stopping arrows. A safety buffer of
1,000 feet in a straight line from the archer is required within the
incorporated area of the Town of Cary.
   (2)   Must be 18 years of age or in the company of a parent or guardian.
   (3)   For a bow and arrow or crossbow to be considered under this Code, it
must have a draw strength of nine pounds or more. Anything less would be a toy
and not considered under this Code.
   (d)   Violation. Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor
and subject any violator(s) so convicted to such penalties as may be imposed by
the court.
(Code 1982, § 13-9.2; Ord. No. 96-002, 2-8-1996; Ord. No. 05-017, 11-10-2005;
Ord. No. 2022-Code-04, 9-22-2022)
   State law reference—Local regulation of firearms, G.S. 14-409.40.
Sec. 22-53. Graffiti.
   (a)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply to this section.
   Graffiti means any inscription, word, writing, drawing, figure, mark of
paint, ink, chalk, dye or other similar substance, etching, engraving or other
defacement (collectively 'defacement') by a graffiti implement or chalk or by
the application of any material, gum label, paper, fabric or other matter
(collectively "matter") with adhesive or other substance which is intended to
make the application of the matter permanent or difficult to remove, on public
or private property. Graffiti does not include temporary, easily removable
chalks or other water soluble markings which are used in connection with
traditional children's activities such as drawings of bases for ball games,
hopscotch and similar activities, nor does it include temporary, easily
removable markings used in connection with any lawful business or public
purpose or activity and markings used to denote the location of underground
utility infrastructure and those used in conjunction with establishing survey
control data and location points by survey crews.
   Graffiti implement means any aerosol paint container or paint applicator or
brush, indelible marker containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is not
water soluble, stick on label, paint stick, etching equipment or any other
device capable of defacing or leaving a visible mark on public or private
property.
   Paint means paint, wax, epoxy or similar substance capable of being applied
to a surface and leaving a defacement.
   Property owner(s) means the owner as defined in section
1-2 and such owner's agent or manager, or any other person in lawful control or
possession of property if known to the town. The owner of the property shall be
deemed to be those persons whose names appear on the tax records as having an
interest in the property.
   Public or private property means public or private buildings, sidewalks,
streets, structures, walls, equipment and other similar things and places.
   (b)   Placing graffiti prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
place graffiti upon the surface of any public or private property.
   (c)   Removing graffiti required.
   (1)   Removal by perpetrator. It shall be unlawful for any person placing
graffiti on public or private property to fail to remove such graffiti or cause
such graffiti to be removed within seventy-two (72) hours after notice from the
town. If graffiti is applied by a person under the age of eighteen (18) years
of age, the parents or legal guardians of such minor shall be responsible for
removal of the graffiti with seventy-two (72) hours after notice from the town.
   (2)   Removal by property owner. It shall be unlawful for any property owner
to fail to remove or effectively obscure any graffiti upon property they own,
manage, or are in lawful control or possession of within five (5) business days
after receiving written notice from the town to remove such graffiti ("Notice
to Remove"). Notice to Remove shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested or by personal delivery, to the property owner(s). The notice to
remove shall provide:
      (i)   the street address or other description of the property sufficient
for property identification;
      (ii)   a description and general location of the graffiti;
      (iii)   a statement that the property is a public nuisance due to the
existence of the graffiti;
      (iv)   a statement that the graffiti must be removed or effectively
obscured within five (5) business days after receiving notice to remove and
that if the nuisance is not so abated within that time the town will abate the
public nuisance at the cost of the property owner as set forth herein;
      (v)   information identifying any graffiti removal assistance available
through the town; and
      (vi)   information concerning procedures for appeal of the Notice.
   (3)   Removal by town. If the town has provided notice to remove under (c)
(2) above and property owner fails or refuses to remove or effectively obscure
graffiti upon their property, then, in addition to other enforcement actions
hereunder, the town is authorized to remove the graffiti as provided herein at
the expense of property owner. If the expenses of removing or obscuring the
graffiti is not paid by the property owner within thirty (30) days of receipt
of a statement for the cost of such removal or obscuring, the town may sue in a
court of competent jurisdiction to recover all such expenses, including all
administrative personnel costs, attorney's fees and costs related to enforcing
this section, and the town may record a lien in the public records of Wake
County, which lien shall be for all such expenses, and the amount of the lien
shall bear interest from the date of recording.
   (4)   Appeals. Any property owner who receives a notice to remove may appeal
the notice within five (5) business days of receipt of notice to the town
manager. The appeal shall be in writing and shall state with specificity the
reasons for the appeal ("appeal notice"). The manager or designee shall set a
hearing date within ten (10) days of receipt of the appeal notice, and shall
render a decision within a reasonable time after the hearing date. If, on
appeal, the manager or designee determines that the graffiti is a public
nuisance and must be removed, the manager shall establish a new date for such
removal or obscuring.
   (5)   Emergency removal. If the town determines that any graffiti is a
danger to the health, safety or welfare of the public and is unable to provide
notice by personal service after at least two attempts to do so, then forty-
eight (48) hours after either (i) mailing of the notice described in subsection
(2) above by certified and first class mail or (ii) the posting of the notice
in a conspicuous place on the property, the town may remove or cause the
graffiti to be removed or obscured at its expense.
   (6)   Removal/obscuring. The town shall not clean, paint or obscure or
repair any property containing graffiti more extensively than where the
graffiti itself is located. The town shall not be required to restore the area
that contained graffiti, or any obscured area, to its original condition
including conditions of color, texture, and finish. Notwithstanding the
preceding, if the town manager determines in writing that a more extensive area
is required to be repainted or repaired in order to avoid an aesthetic
disfigurement to the neighborhood or community, the Town of Cary or its
authorized private contractor is expressly permitted to perform the work
necessary to do more extensive repainting or repairing.
   (d)   Enforcement/remedies.
   (1)   Civil penalties. Violation of subsections (b), (c)(1), or (c)(2) shall
subject the offender(s) to a civil penalty in the amount of one hundred dollars
($100.00). In the event there is more than one violation within any thirty-day
period, then the civil penalty shall be increased for each additional violation
over one during such period, as follows. The date of the first violation shall
establish the beginning date for the initial thirty-day period. The next
violation within that 30-day period shall be considered the second violation.
Any violations that follow within that thirty-day period shall be numbered
sequentially. The penalty shall be:
      Second offense within same thirty-day period: $250.00.
      Third offense within same thirty-day period: $500.00.
      Fourth offense within same thirty-day period: $750.00.
      Fifth and any subsequent offense within same thirty-day period:
$1,000.00.
      Once the thirty-day period has run from the "first violation," the next
violation shall be considered to be a first violation for the purposes of
establishing a new thirty-day period. Each subsequent violation that follows
more than thirty (30) days from the previous first violation shall be a new
first violation for the purpose of establishing a new thirty-day period. In the
event there are more than six violations within any twelve-month period, then
each violation after six shall subject the violator(s) to a civil penalty of
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
      Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within
seven (7) days from the issue date and time to the Town of Cary Finance
Department. The town is authorized to file suit on behalf of the town to
collect any unpaid citations, and the police chief, or designee, is authorized
to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the town in such suits. Any police
officer may issue a citation for violations of this article.
   (2)   Criminal penalty. In addition to or in lieu of civil penalties or
other remedies, violation of subsection (b) of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be fined
not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for a first offense and five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second or subsequent offense. In addition to
any other remedy, the court shall order any person convicted of a violation of
subsection (b) to make restitution to the victim and/or to the Town of Cary for
the damage or loss suffered by the victim and/or to the Town of Cary as a
result of the offense. The court may determine the amount, terms, and
conditions of the restitution.
   (e)   Right of entry on private property. Prior to entering upon private
property or property owned by a public entity other than the Town of Cary for
the purpose of this section, the town shall make a reasonable attempt to secure
the consent of the property owner or manager for release of the town from
liability for property damage or personal injury. If the property owner or
manager fails to remove the offending graffiti within the time specified
herein, or the town has requested consent to remove or paint over the offending
graffiti and the property owner or responsible party has refused consent for
entry on terms acceptable to the town and consistent with the terms of this
section, the town shall commence abatement and cost recovery proceedings for
the graffiti removal according to the provisions specified herein.
   (f)   Severability. The provisions of this section shall be deemed
severable. If any portion of this section is deemed unconstitutional, it shall
not affect the constitutionality of any other portions of this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 06-021, 12-14-2006)
Secs. 22-54—22-77. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 22-78. Disturbing public meeting.
   (a)   No person shall disturb any public meeting or exhibition, whether held
in a house or out of doors, in any manner whatsoever.
   (b)   Criminal penalty. In addition to, or in lieu of, any applicable civil
penalties or other remedies, violation of this article shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Code 1976, § 10-1; Code 1982, § 13-6; Ord. No. 2022-Code-04, 9-22-2022)
   State law references—Disorderly conduct, G.S. 14-288.4; disruption of
official meetings, G.S. 143-318.17.
Sec. 22-79. Consumption and possession of malt beverages and unfortified wine
on town property and town streets.
   (a)   Definitions. The following definitions shall apply in the
interpretation and enforcement of this section:
      ABC permit means any permit required by the North Carolina Alcoholic
Beverage Control Commission or any successor agency.
      Malt beverage means beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter, and any other
brewed or fermented beverage except unfortified or fortified wine, containing
at least one-half of one percent (0.5%), and not more than fifteen percent
(15%), alcohol by volume.
      Open container means a container whose seal has been broken or a
container other than the manufacturer's unopened original container.
      Public street means any streets, sidewalks, alleys, bridges and other
ways of public passage within the town's corporate limits.
      Social district has the same meaning as the term “social district”
defined in G.S. 18B-300.1.
      Town property means any property owned, occupied, or controlled by the
town, excluding the public streets.
      Town sponsored or co-sponsored event means a celebration, festival,
activity, or other event which is sponsored wholly or in part by the Town.
      Unfortified wine means any wine of sixteen percent (16%) or less alcohol
by volume made by fermentation from grapes, fruits, berries, rice, or honey; or
by the addition of pure cane, beet, or dextrose sugar; or by the addition of
pure brandy from the same type of grape, fruit, berry, rice, or honey that is
contained in the base wine and produced in accordance with the regulations of
the United States.
   (b)   Possession and Consumption on Public Streets. It shall be unlawful for
any person to possess an open container of or consume malt beverages or
unfortified wine on any public street, except that such possession and
consumption shall be permitted (i) within the area encompassed by a valid
encroachment agreement granted by the town which includes the permission for
such possession or consumption ("outdoor consumption area"), so long as
appropriate ABC permits are in effect; or (ii) within a social district during
its hours of operation provided that all rules, regulations and laws governing
the consumption of alcohol within the social district are adhered to, including
but not limited to those set forth in G.S. 18B-300.1.
   (c)    Possession and Consumption on Town Property. It shall be unlawful for
any person to possess an open container of or consume malt beverages or
unfortified wine on town property, except that such possession and consumption
shall be permitted on town property if appropriate ABC permits are in effect
and (i) in connection with Town sponsored or co-sponsored events; (ii) pursuant
to a written agreement between the town and a concessionaire; (iii) pursuant to
the terms of a lease or rental agreement for a town facility; (iv) at the Cary
Arts Center, The Cary Theatre, the Koka Booth Amphitheatre, USA Baseball
National Training Complex or the Soccer Park, when the malt beverages or wine
are provided by the Town, a vendor, or a concessionaire; or (v) within a social
district during its hours of operation provided that all rules, regulations and
laws governing the consumption of alcohol within the social district are
adhered to, including but not limited to those set forth in G.S. 18B-300.1.
   (d)    Possession and Consumption during Special Events. It shall be
unlawful to possess or consume malt beverages and unfortified wine on any
public street, alley or parking lot which is temporarily closed to regular
traffic for a special event unless (i) the special event is a Town sponsored or
co-sponsored event located with the Town Center zoning district and for which
the Town makes malt beverages or unfortified wine available for purchase; or
(ii) a resolution of the town council makes other provisions for the possession
and consumption of malt beverages or unfortified wine for the special event on
the closed street, alley or parking lot.
   (e)   Social Districts. The social districts established by the town council
are described herein, along with days and hours of operation. Consumption of
alcoholic beverages in a social district and off the premises of an ABC permit
holder is limited to malt beverages and unfortified wine, unless otherwise
allowed by an applicable ABC permit.
   (1)   Downtown Cary Park Social District. A social district shall be
established within the following boundaries: back of curb within the northern
right of way for East Park Street between South Academy Street and South Walker
Street; back of curb within the western right of way of South Walker Street
between East Park Street and Walnut Street; back of curb within the northern
right of way of Walnut Street between Kildaire Farm Road and South Walker
Street; back of curb within the eastern right of way of Kildaire Farm Road
between Walnut Street and a point parallel to the northeast corner of the
parcel at 101 Dry Avenue; back of curb within the southern right of way of
Kildaire Farm Road between said point and South Academy Street; back of curb
within the southern right of way of Dry Avenue between Kildaire Farm Road and
South Academy Street; back of sidewalk within the western right of way of South
Academy Street between Dry Avenue and the northern curbline of the southernmost
intersection of Charlie Gaddy Lane with South Academy Street; along the inside
curb within the right of way of Charlie Gaddy Lane from its southernmost
intersection with South Academy Street to its northernmost intersection with
South Academy Street; and back of sidewalk within the western right of way of
South Academy Street between its northernmost intersection with Charlie Gaddy
Lane and East Park Street. The Cary Regional Library and associated parking
deck located within the above boundaries are excluded from the Downtown Cary
Park Social District.
      The days and hours of operation for the Downtown Cary Park Social
District shall be seven days a week from 11 a.m. to 11 p.m.
   (f)   Exception. This Section does not apply to persons who are occupants of
a motor vehicle.
   (g)   Criminal penalty. In addition to, or in lieu of, any applicable civil
penalties or other remedies, violation of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Code 1976, § 10-4; Code 1982, § 13-8; Ord. No. 87-104, § 3, 12-10-1987; Ord.
2015-Code-01, 1-28-2015; Ord. No. 2022-Code-04, 9-22-2022; Ord. No. 2022-Code-
06, 12-15-2022; Ord. No. 2024-Code-01, 3-14-2024)
Sec. 22-80. Hotel guest registration.
   (a)   Definitions.
      Innkeeper. Any person engaged in the ownership or operation of hotels,
motels, inns, tourist homes, tourist camps and similar types of businesses and
persons who rent private residences and cottages to transients (hereafter
jointly "hotel"). The term innkeeper includes the proprietor or any other
person who has the right to rent rooms within the hotel including clerks and
other employees and agents of the hotel owner or operator.
      Guest. Any person renting or otherwise using or inhabiting a sleeping
room or living room unit in a hotel.
   (b)   Numbering of rooms. Every innkeeper shall at all times number and
designate all sleeping room or living room units in the hotel in a plain,
conspicuous manner. Such number or designation shall be placed on the outside
of each sleeping room or living room unit, and no two units shall bear the same
number, unless also clearly designated as to building, wing, or other
identifier.
   (c)   Guest register. Every innkeeper shall at all times keep and maintain
on the premises of hotel a guest register in which shall be inscribed the name
and home address of each guest and shall contain such guest's vehicle
description and license plate state and number.
      Upon registration, the innkeeper shall require all guests to provide a
valid driver's license or identification card from within the U.S., Canada or
U.S. Territories, U.S. Military identification, or a valid passport. The
corresponding identification number and type of identification shall be
recorded in the register.
      The innkeeper shall write opposite each guest name the number of each
room or unit assigned to and occupied by such guest, together with the date
when such room or unit is rented, and shall sign the register. No person shall
be allowed to occupy any sleeping room or living room unit in a hotel unless
all of the aforesaid entries have been made in such guest register.
   (i)   The innkeeper shall keep and maintain all guest registers in a manner
that provides quick and easy reference to the number of each room or unit
assigned, and the name of the guest assigned to that room or unit, together
with the date when such room or unit is rented.
   (ii)   The information required by this section shall be maintained by the
innkeeper for one year from the date of rental. An officer of the Town of Cary
Police Department ('Officer') may request to inspect the guest register as part
of the Police Department's public safety responsibilities by asking the
innkeeper's consent to inspect the guest register. If such inspection is
refused, the innkeeper must secure the guest register in the presence of the
Officer in a manner directed by the Officer to ensure that no one can tamper
with the guest register and the innkeeper must maintain the security of the
guest register until such time as a subpoena, warrant, or court order has been
issued or denied.
   (iii)   The guest vehicle parking area of any hotel shall be accessible in a
reasonable manner at all times to any law enforcement officer or by an official
of the Fire Department with territorial jurisdiction while in the performance
of his or her duties.
(Ord. No. 06-019, 12-14-2006; Ord. No. 2015-Code-006, 11-19-2015)
Sec. 22-81. Safe and orderly use of public transportation system.
   (a)   The Town of Cary owns and operates a public transportation system
(“System”). To ensure the safety, security, comfort and convenience of all
persons using System the following conduct is prohibited on all real and
personal property and equipment of, or used by, System in the provision of
System services (collectively, “Facilities”). Prohibited conduct is intentional
or willful and wonton conduct that:
   (i)   is illegal under any federal, state, or local law, regulation, or
ordinance;
   (ii)   damages any Facilities or property of System employees or passengers,
or any other person using System services;
   (iii)   injures a System employee, any passenger, or any other person; or
   (iv)   substantially interferes with or tends to interfere with System
services or Facilities.
   (b)   The town manager, or the manager’s designee, is authorized to
establish and, from time to time, amend a “Code of Conduct” that further
defines prohibited conduct and other adequate and reasonable rules to protect
and regulate those who use System.
   (c)   The Code of Conduct is hereby incorporated by reference pursuant to
G.S. 160A-76(b) and shall be as effective as if set out in full herein.
   (d)   The Code of Conduct shall apply to the System both within and outside
the corporate limits of the Town, and may be enforced with the remedies
available under any provision of law.
   (e)   An official copy of the Code of Conduct shall be maintained for public
inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (f)   Criminal penalty. In addition to, or in lieu of, any applicable civil
penalties or other remedies, violation of this article shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-02, 2-23-2017; Ord. No. 2022-Code-04, 9-22-2022)
   State law references—G.S. 160A-312; 160A-76.
Sec. 22-82. Public urination and defecation prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on any public
right-of-way, street, sidewalk, park, or other public building or facility or
to urinate or defecate outdoors in view of the public on any property unless
such urination or defecation is into an approved toilet facility provided for
that purpose. Having the permission of the owner or person in lawful possession
of the property shall constitute an affirmative defense to the charge of
urinating or defecating on private property. In addition to, or in lieu of, any
applicable civil penalties or other remedies, violation of this article shall
constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 2023-Code-01, 6-22-2023)
Sec. 22-83. Public lewdness.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to engage in sexual
intercourse, masturbation, sexual acts as defined by G.S. 14-27.20, or sexual
contact as defined by G.S. 14-27.20, in any public right-of-way, street,
sidewalk, park, or other public building or facility, including but not limited
to any public restroom facility, in the presence of any other person. In
addition to, or in lieu of, any applicable civil penalties or other remedies,
violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 2023-Code-01, 6-22-2023)
Sec. 22-84. Injury or defacement of town property.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, or willfully inhibit
the intended function of any Cary-owned or maintained property, including but
not limited to lights, light posts, signs, signposts, and utility
infrastructure. In addition to, or in lieu of, any applicable civil penalties
or other remedies, violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 2023-Code-01, 6-22-2023)
Sec. 22-85. Summary removal of unattended property.
   (a)   No person shall store or leave any unattended items, including
personal belongings of any nature, signs, or other displays (collectively,
“unattended property”), on any property owned or leased by the Town (“Town
property”) except as provided in this section.
   (b)   Unattended property on Town property in violation of this section is
subject to summary removal by the Town. The cost of the removal of the
unattended property may be charged to the owner. At its discretion, Town may
store unattended property to allow its owner to reclaim it. Storage costs may
be charged to the owner and, if charged, must be paid prior to release of the
unattended property.
   (c)   This section does not apply (i) within the public right-of-way; (ii)
to vehicles appropriately parked in designated spaces or racks provided for
such purposes; or (iii) to unattended items placed in or on Town property by
the Town or its authorized agents.
   (d)   Violation of this section is not a misdemeanor or infraction as
provided by G.S. 14-4.
(Ord. No. 2023-Code-01, 6-22-2023)
Sec. 22-86. Trespass in/on a vehicle.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in or on a vehicle,
as defined by G.S. 20-4.01, of another after that person has been notified not
to enter or remain there by the owner, by a person in charge of the vehicle, by
another authorized person, or by signage posted at the facility within which
the vehicle is located. In addition to, or in lieu of, any applicable civil
penalties or other remedies, violation of this article shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. No. 2023-Code-01, 6-22-2023)
Sec. 22-87. Safe and orderly use of off-street parking decks and facilities of
the Town of Cary.
   (a)   The Town of Cary owns and operates one or more off-street parking
decks (“decks”). To ensure the safety, security, comfort, and convenience of
all persons using decks the following conduct is prohibited on all real and
personal property and equipment of decks (collectively, “facilities”).
Prohibited conduct is intentional or willful and wonton conduct that:
      (i)   is illegal under any federal, state, or local law, regulation, or
ordinance;
      (ii)   damages any facilities or property of the Town or persons using
decks; or
      (iii)   injures any person utilizing, administering, or maintaining
decks.
   (b)   The Town Manager or Deputy Manager is authorized to establish and,
from time to time, amend a “Parking Deck Rules Schedule” that further defines
conduct and other adequate and reasonable rules that will apply to one or more
decks to protect and regulate those who use decks.
   (c)   The Parking Deck Rules Schedule is hereby incorporated by reference
pursuant to G.S. 160A-76(b) and shall be as effective as if set out in full
herein.
   (d)   The Parking Deck Rules Schedule shall apply to off-street parking
decks and facilities owned or operated by Cary as designated in the Parking
Deck Rules Schedule, and may be enforced with the remedies available under any
provision of law.
   (e)   An official copy of the Parking Deck Rules Schedule shall be
maintained for public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (f)   In addition to, or in lieu of, any applicable civil penalties or other
remedies, violation of this article shall constitute a misdemeanor. In
addition, any violations of an applicable Parking Deck Rules Schedule shall be
subject to the same penalties as violations of Town Code Sec.
34-36.
(Ord. No. 2023-Code-01, 6-22-2023; Ord. No. 2024-Code-02, 6-27-2024)
   State law references—G.S. 160A-312; 160A-76.
Sec. 22-88. Enforcement and civil penalities.
   (a)   Civil penalty. In addition to any applicable criminal penalties,
violation of this Article IV, Division 1 shall subject the offender(s) to a
civil penalty in the amount of $100.00. In the event there is more than one
violation within any one-year period, then the civil penalty shall be increased
for each additional violation over one during such period, as follows.
   Second offense within one year: $250.00
   Third offense within one year: $500.00
   Fourth offense within one year: $750.00
   Fifth and any subsequent offense within one year: $1,000.00
      (1)   Once the one-year period has run from the "first violation," the
next violation shall be considered to be a first violation for the purposes of
establishing a new one-year period.
      (2)   Violators shall pay any issued penalty within 72 hours of the issue
date and time. The town attorney, or designee, is authorized to file suit on
behalf of the town to collect any unpaid citations, and the police chief, or
designee, is authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the town in
such suits. A police officer or other employee duly authorized to enforce
ordinances may issue a citation for violations of this article.
      (3)   Appeal of a civil penalty amount may be made to the town manager or
designee within 30 calendar days from the date of issuance by filing an appeal
stating with specificity the grounds for the appeal and the reasons the penalty
should be reduced or abated.
   (b)   Remedies. This article may also be enforced through equitable remedies
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 2022-Code-04, 9-22-2022; Ord. No. 2023-Code-01, 6-22-2023)
   State law reference—Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Secs. 22-89—22-101. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. NOISE*
----------
   *State law reference--Authority to regulate noise, G.S. § 160A-184.
----------
Sec. 22-102. Statement of purpose and intent; loud, disturbing noises
prohibited, generally.
   The provisions hereinafter contained are enacted for the purpose of
preventing noise disturbances or unreasonably loud noise and are enacted
pursuant to the authority granted in G.S. § 160A-184. Above certain levels or
durations and during specific times of day, unreasonably loud noise or noise
disturbance is detrimental to health, safety and welfare of the citizenry and
the individual's right to peaceful and quiet enjoyment. It is the policy of the
town to prohibit noise disturbances or unreasonably loud noise from all
sources, subject to its police power, in order to secure and promote the public
health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare, and prosperity of the citizens
of Cary. Nothing in this Article IV, Division 2 is intended to deter
individuals from lawfully exercising the individual right of freedom of speech
and commerce, or any other freedom guaranteed under the Constitutions of the
United States of America or of the State of North Carolina, and nothing in this
Article IV, Division 2 is intended to unreasonably limit or restrain commercial
or industrial enterprise.
   Subject to the provisions of sections
22-104 through
22-112, it shall be unlawful for any person to create or assist in creating any
unreasonably loud, disturbing noise in the town which does frighten, annoy,
disturb, injure, or endanger the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of
citizens within the Town of Cary or causes damage to property or business
within the Town of Cary. Such sounds do not include the ordinary and usual
sounds, noises, commotion or vibration incidental to residential living or
operation of business or commercial establishments when conducted in accordance
with the usual standards of practice and in a manner which will not
unreasonably disturb the peace and comfort of adjacent residences or which will
not detrimentally affect the operators of adjacent places of business.
(Code 1982, § 13-10; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 98-008, § 1, 6-11-
1998; Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-2013)
Sec. 22-103. Definitions.
   For the purpose of this division, the following words and phrases are
defined below unless it shall be apparent from the context that a different
meaning is intended:
   Construction shall mean on-site erection, fabrication, installation,
alteration, demolition or removal of any structure, facility or addition
thereto, including all related activities including, but not restricted to,
clearing of land, earth moving, blasting, landscaping, mixing or pouring
concrete, and the operation of vehicles or equipment in connection with such
activities.
   Disturbing noise shall mean noise which is perceived by a person of ordinary
sensibilities as interrupting the normal peace and calm of an area.
   Emergency work shall mean any work performed for the purpose of preventing
or alleviating physical trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an
existing or imminent peril.
   Motor vehicle or vehicle shall mean any vehicle propelled on land by a
motor, including, but not limited to, passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers,
semi-trailers, campers, go-carts, automobiles, motorcycles or buses. It shall
exclude trains and emergency response vehicles such as police, fire and rescue
vehicles.
   Noise control officer shall mean any police officer or other person so
designated by the town manager.
   Occupied residential structure shall mean any structure that is occupied for
residential use or that reasonably appears to be occupied for residential use;
it is not necessary that a person be inside the structure at the time an
unreasonably loud or disturbing noise is caused or created.
   Person shall mean any individual, association, partnership or corporation,
including any officer, employee, department, agency or instrumentality of the
United States, the state or any political subdivision thereof.
   Unreasonably loud noise shall mean noise which is substantially incompatible
with the time and location where created or heard to the extent that it brings
about an actual or imminent interference with peace, rest, or good order.
   Technical terms:
   (1)   A-weighted sound level: The sound pressure level in decibels as
measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network. The level so
read is designated dB(A).
   (2)   Decibel (dB): A unit for describing the amplitude of sound, equal to
20 times the logarithm to the base 10 of the ratio of the pressure of the sound
measured to the reference pressure, which is 20 micronewtons per square meter.
   (3)   Sound: An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle
velocity or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that
causes compression, and rarefaction of that medium. The description of sound
may include any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity and
frequency.
   (4)   Sound pressure level: 20 times the logarithms to the base 10 of the
ratio of the root mean squared (RMS) sound pressure to the reference pressure
of 20 micronewtons per square meter.
   (5)   Sound-level meter: An instrument which includes a microphone,
amplifier, RSM detector, integrator or time average, output meter and weighting
network used to measure sound pressure levels.
   (6)   Sound level: The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of
a sound level meter and frequency weighting network, such as A, B, or C as
specified in American National Standards Institute Specifications for sound
level meters (ANSI S1.41971 or the latest approved version thereof). If the
frequency weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
   (7)   Slow response: A measuring technique to obtain an average value when
measuring a noise level that fluctuates over a range of four dB or more. By way
of illustration only, a sound level meter set on "slow response" would record a
sound level between two and six decibels less than the reading for a steadying
signal of the same frequency and amplitude when a tone of 1,000 Hz and for a
duration of 0.5 seconds is applied.
   (8)   Amplified sound: Any sound using amplifying equipment, whose source is
outside or whose source is inside and the sound propagates to the outside or to
other dwellings or interior locations under separate ownership or occupancy.
(Code 1982, § 13-11; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-
2013)
Sec. 22-104. Noise measurement.
   For the purpose of determining dB(A)'s as referred to in this article, sound
levels shall be measured on the A-weighting scale on a sound level meter of
standard design and quality having characteristics established by the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) or its successor body.
   All measurements shall be taken at or within the nearest residential
property line occupied by the complainant, unless otherwise stated. For
multifamily structures, including apartments, condominiums, or other
residential arrangements where boundary lines cannot readily be determined or
do not exist, measurements shall be taken:
      (1)    from any point abutting the exterior of the complainant's
residential unit; or
      (2)    from any point on the interior of the complainant's residential
unit if taking an exterior measurement is impractical or if the noise
complained of is emanating from an adjoining unit.
The sound measurement shall be averaged over a period of one minute for
purposes of determining the sound level (the "measurement period"). It shall be
a violation of this ordinance for the averaged sound measurement to exceed the
prescribed dB(A), or for any sound or noise to exceed the prescribed dB(A)
level by three or more decibels at any time during the measurement period.
(Code 1982, § 13-12; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-
2013; Ord. No. 2015-Code-004, 7-9-2015)
Sec. 22-105. Exceptions.
   The following acts and activities are exempt from the provisions of this
article unless such acts produce a risk of serious and unnecessary bodily harm:
      (1)    Emergency Work. Emergency work performed for the purpose of
preventing or alleviating physical trauma or property damage threatened or
caused by an existing or imminent peril. This emergency exception includes
maintenance, backup or upkeep ("maintenance") strictly necessary to keep
emergency equipment, such as generators, in operating order as prescribed by
the manufacturer, provided such maintenance is done only on weekdays between
the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., sounds created do not exceed 80 dB(A),
the equipment is maintained as far from the property line as reasonably
possible to serve its purpose, and the equipment has all the manufacturer's
standard mufflers and noise-reducing equipment intact.
      (2)    Athletic Events. Sound emanating from outdoor athletic events
scheduled by the Town; educational, religious, or other institutions; or
organized sports leagues.
      (3)    Safety Signals. Noise of safety signals, warning devices, and
emergency pressure relief valves, provided such signals are used in a manner
consistent with promoting public health and safety.
      (4)    Religious Bells. Noise resulting from the operation of religious
bells or chimes.
      (5)    Emergency Vehicles. Noise resulting from any authorized emergency
vehicle.
      (6)    Public Demonstrations. Noise resulting from parades, lawful
picketing or other public demonstrations protected by the U.S. Constitution or
federal law, or for which a local permit has been granted by the town, provided
such activity is of a temporary duration lasting no longer than two hours
during any 24-hour period. Regulation of noise emanating from activities under
permit shall be according to the conditions and limits stated in this Article
IV, Division 2 and according to any additional conditions stated on the permit.
      (7)    Town Sanctioned or Sponsored Events. Unamplified and amplified
sound at street fairs community concerts, other celebrations and events,
provided that such event is sponsored or sanctioned by the town.
      (8)    Noisemakers and Pyrotechnics. Noise from noisemakers on holidays
and fireworks on holidays or at times allowed under a pyrotechnics permit
issued pursuant to G.S. ch. 14, art. 54 (G.S. 14-410 et seq.).
      (9)    Aircraft. All noises coming from the normal operations of properly
equipped aircraft, but not including scale model aircraft.
      (10)    Lawn Mowers and Landscaping Equipment. Lawn mowers, landscaping
equipment, and agricultural equipment used between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday and between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on Saturdays and Sundays when operated with all the manufacturer's
standard mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operating
condition. Typical and routine work to ready a golf course for play beginning
at 6:00 a.m. during the months of April through September and at 7:00 a.m.
during the months of October through March. Typical and routine work includes
the mowing, blowing and raking of all of the course's playing surfaces, using
equipment operated with all the manufacturer's standard mufflers and noise-
reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition. Typical and
routine work does not include the use of chainsaws, chippers, shredders or
equipment that is used on a sporadic, irregular basis.
      (11)    Marching Bands. Practice sessions or performances by marching
bands.
      (12)    Railroads. Noise from trains and associated railroad rolling
stock when kept in proper repair and operated in a proper manner.
      (13)    Operations of Local Government Employees. Noise created by the
normal operations of the town government, including the work of its
contractors.
      (14)    Unamplified Recreational Noise. Unamplified sound originating
from recreational activities at public or private recreational, civic or
community clubs, and religious institutions, when such noise is created by
patrons and/or guests during the legitimate operation of the establishment
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m.
      (15)    Refuse Collection. Operating a front-end loader or other truck
for refuse collection Monday through Saturday between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 8:00 p.m.
      (16)    Construction Work. Performing construction work or operating
construction machinery Monday through Friday between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
6:00 p.m. or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays and
holidays which are observed by the state.
      (17)    Garages. Noises created by the ordinary business activities of
garages or service stations between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
(Code 1982, § 13-18; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 94-022, § 2, 8-11-
1994; Ord. No. 05-003, 2-24-2005; Ord. No. 05-004, 3-10-2005; Ord. No. 2013-
Code-05, 10-10-2013; Ord. No. 2015-Code-004, 7-9-2015)
Sec. 22-106. Prohibited sounds.
   The following actions are hereby declared to be unreasonably loud and
disturbing noise in violation of section
22-102, except as provided in section
22-105. This enumeration shall not be construed to be an exclusive list of
actions which violate section
22-102, nor shall satisfying any requirements of this section render a sound in
itself reasonable:
      (1)    Horns or signal device. The sounding of any horn or signal device
on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other motor vehicle, except as a warning
or danger signal; the creation of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound by means
of any such horn or signal device, whether or not such device is on any
vehicle, and the sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and
unreasonable period of time.
      (2)    Gongs, bells, and sirens. The use of any gong, bell or siren upon
any motor vehicle.
      (3)    Steam whistle. The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as
a warning of danger.
      (4)    Exhaust discharge. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust
of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or
motor boat engine, except through a muffler or other device which effectively
prevents unreasonably loud and disturbing or explosive sounds therefrom.
      (5)    Compressed air devices. The use of any mechanical device operated
by compressed air unless the sounds created are effectively muffled and
reduced.
      (6)    Chimes, bells, gongs, attached to buildings. The sounding of any
chime, bell or gong attached to any building or premises which disturbs the
quiet or repose of any person in the vicinity thereof.
      (7)    Vendors. The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and
vendors which disturbs the quiet and peace of a residential neighborhood.
      (8)    Pyrotechnics. The firing, discharge or ignition of squibs,
firecrackers, gunpowder or other pyrotechnics, except with a permit as set
forth in section
22-110.
(Code 1982, § 13-13; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 06-020, 12-14-2006;
Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-2013)
Sec. 22-107. Sounds impacting residential life.
   Except as provided in sections
22-105 (exceptions) or
22-109 (relating to amplified noise), it shall be unlawful for anyone to create
or cause a sound that exceeds 60 dB(A) affecting any occupied residential
structure or unit other than the unit occupied by the person creating the
sound.
(Code 1982, § 13-14; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 94-022, § 1, 8-11-
1994; Ord. No. 05-003, 2-24-2005; Ord. No. 05-011, 8-11-2005; Ord. No. 2012-
Code-03, 4-19-2012; Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-2013)
Sec. 22-108. Motor vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or allow the operation of any motor vehicle
in the town:
      (1)    By engaging in operations which create unreasonably loud and
disturbing noises, or
      (2)    By playing any radio, tape player, compact disc player or other
sound-making device or instrument from within the motor vehicle so that the
sound is plainly audible 30 feet away from the vehicle. This subsection shall
not apply to motor vehicles used for business or political purposes which, in
the normal course of conducting business, use sound-making devices or sound-
amplification equipment, so long as such devices or equipment do not register
more than 60 dB(A) at or on the edge of the pavement.
(Code 1982, § 13-17; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 05-003, 2-24-2005;
Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-2013)
Sec. 22-109. Amplified sound.
   Except in accordance with a permit obtained from the town, or as provided in
section
22-110, the following shall be unlawful:
      (1)    Places of public entertainment. As to places of public
entertainment, including, but not limited to, restaurants, taverns and bars,
coffeehouses and private clubs, to operate or allow the operation of any sound
amplification equipment so as to create sounds registering more than 65 dB(A)
affecting occupied residential structures or units between 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m., or 55 dB(A) between 9:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m., or 40 dB(A) between 2:00
a.m. and 9:00 a.m.
      (2)    Advertising. Operate or allow the operation of any sound
amplification equipment for advertising purposes or otherwise to attract
customers so as to cast sounds which are unreasonably loud and disturbing or
which register more than 60 dB(A) at or on the boundary of the edge of pavement
of any public right-of-way.
      (3)    Public right of ways. Operate or allow the operation for personal
use of any sound amplification equipment on the public right-of-way, including
streets or sidewalks, or in the public parks so as to produce sounds
registering more than 60 dB(A) at any point 50 feet or more from any
electromechanical speaker emitting sound between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:
00 p.m., or 50 dB(A) 50 feet or more from any electromechanical speaker between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
      (4)    Other Amplified Sounds. As to sounds other than those listed in
subsections (1)-(3) of this section, to operate or allow the operation of any
sound amplification equipment so as to create sounds registering 60 dB(A) or
greater affecting occupied residential structures or units between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., or 50 dB(A) or greater between 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m.
(Code 1982, § 13-15; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 98-009, § 1, 6-11-
1998; Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-2013)
Sec. 22-110. Permits.
   (a)    Application. Application for a permit under section
22-106(8) or for additional amplification under section
22-109 shall be submitted in writing to the police department at least 15
working days in advance of the planned use. The application shall designate an
individual person or persons who shall be:
      (1)    in control of the amplification in the case of a permit for
section
22-109;
      (2)    in control of the firing or discharge of a gun or pyrotechnics in
the case of a permit under section
22-106(8); and
      (3)    responsible for seeing that the activity complies with the terms
of the permit.
   (b)    Notice of tentative approval. In the case of permits for additional
sound amplification pursuant to section
22-109, if the permit is tentatively approved, the applicant shall be
responsible for mailing or otherwise delivering to the occupants of each
property within a 1,000-foot radius of the property or facility for which the
permit has been granted, as shown on the county tax maps, a notice on a form
provided by the noise control officer showing the date and hours of the event.
The notice shall be delivered at least 72 hours in advance of the event. The
permit will not be approved and issued by the town until the applicant submits
an affidavit to the noise control officer confirming that such notices have
actually been mailed or otherwise delivered.
   (c)    Number of hours. In the case of excess amplification under section
22-109, no permits shall be issued which shall have the effect of allowing more
than 20 hours of excess amplification per year at any place of public
entertainment or ten hours of excess amplification at any other location.
Permits shall be tentatively approved and subsequently granted by the noise
control officer in the order of receipt unless permits for 20 or more hours
have previously been issued for the same or other locations within a 1,000-foot
radius of the facility in the same calendar year, in which event the applicant
shall elect whether to limit his request so as to keep the year's accumulated
hours of excess amplification in that location between 20 hours or select
another location.
   (d)    Not permitted in residentially occupied boundaries. In no event shall
a permit be granted which allows the creation of sounds registering more than
70 dB(A) at any point on or within the boundary line of the nearest
residentially occupied property. For multifamily structures, including
apartments, condominiums, or other residential arrangements, and for structures
where boundary lines cannot readily be determined or do not exist, measurements
shall be taken from any point abutting the exterior of the residential unit.
   (e)    Denial; exceptional permit. If an applicant has been denied a permit
under this section and believes the denial is illegal by virtue of applicable
state or federal law, the applicant shall promptly submit a copy of the denied
permit application together with a short statement of the reasons the applicant
believes he is entitled to a permit to the town manager. The town manager shall
have the discretion to grant an exceptional permit waiving locational, time,
and/or dB(A) requirements, upon the determination by the town manager that the
applicant has made a substantial showing of legal entitlement. Any such
exception permit shall be promptly reported to the town council.
(Code 1982, § 13-16; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 05-003, 2-24-2005;
Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-2013)
Sec. 22-111. Responsible party.
   (a)    Persons responsible for remedying any violation under this Article
IV, Division 2 or to be held liable for any civil or criminal penalties under
section
22-112 shall be any person who creates or assists in creating the unreasonably
loud, disturbing noise or other violation. A person shall be deemed to create
or assist in creating the unreasonably loud, disturbing noise or other
violation if that person owns, manages, or operates any residence, business, or
location at which the noise is generated.
   (b)    When the noise which violates this Article IV, Division 2 is
emanating from a motor vehicle, the violator is the operator of the motor
vehicle, and/or the employer of the operator if the motor vehicle is being used
for commercial purposes, and/or the person which possesses or controls the
motor vehicle used by the operator if the motor vehicle is being used for
commercial purposes.
   (c)    When the noise which violates this Article IV, Division 2 is
emanating from construction activities, the violator is the individual doing
the activity and/or their employer, the general contractor for the site, or the
owner of the property.
(Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-2013)
Sec. 22-112. Enforcement and penalties.
   (a)    Civil penalty. Violation of this Article IV, Division 2 shall subject
the offender(s) to a civil penalty in the amount of $100.00. In the event there
is more than one violation within any one-year period, then the civil penalty
shall be increased for each additional violation over one during such period,
as follows.
Second offense within one year: $250.00
Third offense within one year: $500.00
Fourth offense within one year: $750.00
Fifth and any subsequent offense within one year: $1,000.00
      (1)    Once the one year period has run from the "first violation," the
next violation shall be considered to be a first violation for the purposes of
establishing a new one year period.
      (2)    Violators shall pay any issued penalty within 72 hours of the
issue date and time. The town attorney, or designee, is authorized to file suit
on behalf of the town to collect any unpaid citations, and the police chief, or
designee, is authorized to verify and sign complaints on behalf of the town in
such suits. A police officer, animal control officer enforcing subject matter
jurisdiction, or other employee duly authorized to enforce the noise control
ordinances may issue a citation for violations of this article.
      (3)    Appeal of a civil penalty amount may be made to the Town Manager
or designee within 30 calendar days from the date of issuance by filing an
appeal stating with specificity the grounds for the appeal and the reasons the
penalty should be reduced or abated. In considering the appeal, the penalty or
fine, the Town Manager or designee may consider the following:
         (a)    the gravity of the violation;
         (b)    any action taken by the violator to correct the violation;
         (c)    the cost of the action to correct the violation; and
         (d)    any previous violations committed by the violator, on the same
or different site.
   (b)    Remedies. This article may also be enforced through equitable
remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   Criminal penalty. In addition to, or in lieu of, such civil penalties
or other remedies, violation of this Article IV, Division 2 shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Code 1982, § 13-19; Ord. No. 93-29, 5-13-1993; Ord. No. 98-010, § 1, 6-11-
1998; Ord. No. 2013-Code-05, 10-10-2013; Ord. No. 2022-Code-04, 9-22-2022)
   State law reference--Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Chapter 23
RESERVED
 
Chapter 24
PARKS, RECREATION AND CULTURAL RESOURCES*
----------
   *State law reference—Parks and recreation, G.S. 160A-350 et seq.
----------
Sec. 24-1.   Definition.
Sec. 24-2.   Temporary closing.
Sec. 24-3.   Use of county school property.
Sec. 24-4.   Written permission.
Sec. 24-5.   Dates of operation.
Sec. 24-6.   Hours of operation.
Sec. 24-7.   Damage to plants, turf, rocks, structures, streams.
Sec. 24-8.   Injuring or endangering wildlife.
Sec. 24-9.   Dangerous equipment.
Sec. 24-10.   Reserved.
Sec. 24-11.   Swimming.
Sec. 24-12.   Open fires.
Sec. 24-13.   Vehicles.
Sec. 24-14.   Livestock and domestic animals.
Sec. 24-15.   Entertainment; demonstrations; exhibitions.
Sec. 24-16.   Advertising matter; solicitations.
Sec. 24-17.   Skateboarding safety equipment requirements.
Sec. 24-18.   Lazy Daze and other specially designated town sponsored events;
activities prohibited.
Sec. 24-1. Definition.
   For the purpose of this chapter, "parks" shall be defined as all parks,
greenways and open space areas owned, leased and/or operated, maintained and
administered by the town of Cary department of parks and recreation and
cultural resources.
(Code 1982, § 14-1; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-1, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-2. Temporary closing.
   The director of parks, recreation and cultural resources may temporarily
close or curtail activities upon any park or waters, or any portions thereof,
when it has been deemed to be in the best interest of public safety, health,
conduct or order.
(Code 1982, § 14-4; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-4, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-3. Use of county school property.
   On county school property leased by the parks, recreation and cultural
resources department, school functions have first priority. Parks and
recreation department scheduled games and scheduled practices have priority
over other league users and casual athletic games on park fields. All field
schedules and reservations are handled through the supervisor of athletics.
(Code 1982, § 14-5; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-4, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-4. Written permission.
   All of the rules in this chapter requiring written permission require that
such permits must be carried and produced upon demand.
(Code 1982, § 14-6; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-17, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-5. Dates of operation.
   All town parks shall be open for public use on a year-round basis unless
specific dates of operation are posted.
(Code 1982, § 14-7; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-2, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-6. Hours of operation.
   No persons are permitted in any park during the hours of darkness except in
parks lighted for extended use activities or unless written permission is
obtained from the director of parks, recreations and cultural resources for
after-dark programs. (Safety lights and/or night lights are not designed or
intended for extended use activities). Parks lighted for extended use must be
vacated by 11:00 p.m. unless special permission is granted by the director of
parks, recreations and cultural resources. Parks and special facilities that
require on-site supervision will have hours of operation posted and will be
closed to the public other than during posted hours.
(Code 1982, § 14-8; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-3, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-7. Damage to plants, turf, rocks, structures, streams.
   No person shall cut, break, move, take or otherwise injure, destroy or
deface any tree, shrub, plant, turf, rock or any building, fence, bridge, sign
or other structure; or foul any stream, or dump any earth, rubbish or other
substance or material in or upon any park without written permission of the
director of parks, recreations and cultural resources. Such permission shall be
given upon a showing that the activity is consistent with all other ordinances
and will not result in permanent injury to the park.
(Code 1982, § 14-10; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-9, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-8. Injuring or endangering wildlife.
   No person shall, in any park, set a trap or snare, or annoy, disturb or
poison any wild animal or bird or injure or destroy any nest or habitat.
(Code 1982, § 14-11; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-11, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-9. Dangerous equipment.
   Practicing, playing or using horseshoes, spears, javelins, archery and
discus in park areas is prohibited except in areas expressly designated or
provided for such purposes.
(Code 1982, § 14-12; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-15, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-10. Reserved.
Sec. 24-11. Swimming.
   Swimming is prohibited in all parks except in facilities expressly designed
for that purpose. Personal bathing is prohibited.
(Code 1982, § 14-14; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-5, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-12. Open fires.
   No person shall make or kindle any open fire except in fireplaces and grills
designed and provided for this purpose. Private portable grills may be used in
certain park areas as approved by the director of parks, recreation and
cultural resources.
(Code 1982, § 14-15; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-10, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-13. Vehicles.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60719.jpg]New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 24-13 has been amended by Ord. 2023-CODE-02, approved
4/13/2023.
   (a)   No person shall ride or drive any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, or any other form of off-highway, motor-driven vehicle upon any
park land except upon the roads or on areas which are designed and provided for
such purposes. This shall not include the operation of motor vehicles engaged
in property maintenance or in other services authorized by the town. All
ordinances regarding operation of a motor vehicle upon public streets or
highways apply to operation upon streets within park land. Speed limits within
all park lands shall be 15 miles per hour unless otherwise posted. There shall
be no parking at any time except in designated areas.
   (b)   No bicycles, skateboards or rollerblades are to be ridden in areas
that have been posted by signs that expressly prohibit such.
(Code 1982, § 14-17; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-6, 6-12-1980; Ord. No. 87-105, § 1,
12-10-1987)
Sec. 24-14. Livestock and domestic animals.
   Livestock and domestic animals of any kind are prohibited in any park.
Exception: A dog or a cat upon a leash not exceeding six feet in length is
permitted. Horseback riding is prohibited except upon facilities expressly
designed for that purpose. Lawful activities of any Law Enforcement Canine Team
in the performance of their duties is permitted.
(Code 1982, § 14-18; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-13, 6-12-1980; Ord. No. 90-30, § 1,
4-12-1990; Ord. No. 05-010, 7-28-2005)
Sec. 24-15. Entertainment; demonstrations; exhibitions.
   No entertainment, demonstration or exhibition shall be given in any park
except under the supervision and/or written permission of the director of
parks, recreation and cultural resources.
(Code 1982, § 14-19; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-16, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-16. Advertising matter; solicitations.
   No person shall, without written permission of the director of parks and
recreation, erect, paint, post or otherwise affix or distribute any signs,
advertisements or circulars on park property. The sales of anything or the
solicitation of funds or donations within any park are forbidden except upon
written permission of the director of parks, recreations and cultural
resources. Such permissions shall be given upon a showing that there will be
compliance with all laws and ordinances and a further showing that the activity
will not injure the parks or interfere with the right of others to use the
park.
(Code 1982, § 14-20; Ord. No. 80-14, § 10.1-7, 6-12-1980)
Sec. 24-17. Skateboarding safety equipment requirements.
   (a)   Purpose. G.S. ch. 99E limits the liability of municipalities for
damages that might arise out of a person's participation in skateboarding when
the municipality adopts an ordinance requiring any person riding a skateboard
in areas designated for that purpose, to wear certain protective gear. Although
the town is not designating any area of Godbold Park, other than the existing
skate park facility, as a skateboarding area, the town desires to adopt an
ordinance requiring any person riding a skateboard on any approach to the skate
park facility in Godbold Park to wear protective gear.
   (b)   Protective gear requirements. Every person operating a skateboard
within Robert V. Godbold Park shall wear a protective helmet with the chin
strap securely fastened under the chin, protective elbow pads and kneepads.
   (c)   Enforcement. Violations of this article shall be deemed infractions
pursuant to G.S. 14-4, punishable by a fine of up to $50.00 and any other costs
as prescribed by law.
   (d)   Parent/guardian responsibility. No parent or guardian of any juvenile
operating a skateboard described in subsection (a) above shall knowingly allow
a violation of this section. The parents or guardians of juveniles 15 years of
age or under, shall be deemed responsible for ensuring such compliance.
(Code 1982, § 14-21; Ord. No. 03-010, 10-9-2003)
Sec. 24-18. Lazy Daze and other specially designated town sponsored events;
activities prohibited.
   (a)   Purpose. Lazy Daze Arts & Crafts Festival, a town-sponsored festival,
attracts an extraordinarily large number of persons who are confined to a
limited area for a festival that is of greater duration than other community
events. Because of crowded conditions, certain activities, such as the riding
of bicycles and other wheeled vehicles, and the throwing of frisbees and balls,
pose hazards presenting the possibility of injury to persons and damage to
property. Additionally, Lazy Daze features organized activities, live
entertainment, food concessions, and hundreds of authorized exhibitors who
display and offer for sale artwork, crafts, and related items. The town parks
and recreation department issues permits to persons desiring to place or
maintain an exhibit or concession stand or to otherwise engage in outdoor
sales. The exhibition, offering for sale and selling of merchandise or food and
beverages by unauthorized vendors poses a threat to the public safety and
welfare, interferes with planned traffic flow and the maintenance of order,
frequently violates the town zoning code, and detracts from the authorized
exhibits and concessions. The purpose of this section is to protect and promote
the public health, safety, welfare, and recreation, by regulating certain
activities at Lazy Daze and other town-sponsored events to which these
provisions are made to apply.
   (b)   Applicability. This section shall apply to that town-sponsored
festival known as Lazy Daze Arts & Crafts Festival and may be made to apply to
any other town-sponsored festival or event by action of the town council.
   (1)   As to Lazy Daze, this section shall apply from 12:00 noon on the day
preceding the event through 9:00 p.m. on the scheduled day of the event, or the
rain date, if necessary, to all of that area bounded on the south by Dry
Avenue; on the west by South and North Harrison Avenue; on the north by the CSX
Railroad tracks; and on the east by Walker Street.
   (2)   The area and boundaries of any other town-sponsored event to which
these provisions shall be made to apply shall be determined by the town
council.
   (3)   The boundaries and interior of Lazy Daze and any other event to which
these provisions apply shall consist of any property that is part of Lazy Daze
or other special event and shall include any public street, sidewalk, or other
publicly owned area that is within or constitutes the boundary of that event.
   (c)   Unlawful to operate bicycle or other wheeled vehicle. It shall be
unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle, tricycle, unicycle, moped,
skateboard, or any other wheeled vehicle, roller skates or roller blades (all
hereafter referred to as "wheeled vehicle") on or within the boundaries of Lazy
Daze or any other town-sponsored event to which these provisions have been made
to apply. For purposes of this section, the term "operate" shall mean the use,
putting into action, or causing to function of a wheeled vehicle by a person
mounted thereon. This section shall not apply to wheelchairs, baby strollers,
or baby carriages.
   (d)   Unlawful to throw balls, etc. It shall be unlawful for any person to
toss or throw a ball, Frisbee, model airplane, or similar object on or within
the boundaries of Lazy Daze or any other town-sponsored event to which these
provisions have been made to apply.
   (e)   Unlawful to use fireworks at Lazy Daze. It shall be unlawful for any
person to purchase, sell, deal in, transport, possess, receive, use, or cause
to be used or discharged, any fireworks on or within the boundaries of Lazy
Daze or any other town-sponsored event to which these provisions have been made
to apply. For the purpose of this section, "fireworks" shall mean those
nonexploding glow worms, smoke bombs, noisemakers, and sparklers that are
described in G.S. 14-414(1)--(6).
   (f)   Unlawful to conduct outside sales. It shall be unlawful for any person
to exhibit, display, offer for sale or to sell any merchandise or other item,
any service, food or beverage from any outside location (hereafter referred to
as "outside sales") on public property, within the boundaries of Lazy Daze
unless such person has been issued a permit for such outside sales by the town
parks and recreation department. Any person conducting outside sales shall
display the permit issued by the parks and recreation department in a
conspicuous place at the location of the outside sales.
   (g)   Exhibit permits. It shall be unlawful to fail to produce and exhibit
any permit from the town parks and recreation department for outside sales an
exhibitor or vendor claims to have upon the request of a law enforcement
officer (or a member of the parks, recreation and cultural resources
department) who shall desire to inspect it for purposes of ensuring compliance
with this section.
   (h)   Failure to cease activities. It shall be unlawful for a person on or
within the boundaries of Lazy Daze or any other special event to which these
provisions have been made to apply, to fail to obey the command of a law
enforcement officer to:
   (1)   Cease the operation of a wheeled vehicle;
   (2)   Cease the tossing, or throwing of a ball, frisbee, model plane, or
other object; or
   (3)   Cease exhibiting, displaying, offering for sale, or selling any
merchandise, service, food or beverage, on or within 100 feet of the boundaries
of Lazy Daze without a valid permit from the parks and recreation department
and a valid town business license.
   (i)   Exception. This section shall not apply to the operation of any
wheeled vehicle or the throwing or tossing of any ball, frisbee, or other
object if the otherwise prohibited activity is part of an authorized exhibit or
display. The director of parks, recreation and cultural resources or designee
shall have the authority to specify the conditions under which wheeled vehicles
may be operated and balls, Frisbees, or objects may be thrown or tossed for the
protection of the public.
   (j)   Animals at Lazy Daze. Pursuant to section
6-72, animals are prohibited at Lazy Daze and certain other special events. The
town council, by its action, may also make the provisions of section
24-5 apply to other town-sponsored events.
   (k)   Enforcement. Any law enforcement officer may issue a citation for a
civil penalty for violation of this section in the amount of $20.00. This
authority shall be in addition to any other authority and shall not preclude in
any way any law enforcement officer from exercising any authority or carrying
out the duties of a law enforcement officer. Enforcement of an unpaid citation
may be by issuance of a criminal summons or by the filing of a civil complaint
to collect the unpaid debt owed to the town.
(Code 1982, § 14-28; Ord. No. 91-29, § 1, 8-8-1991; Ord. No. 94-018, § 1, 7-28-
1994)
   State law reference(s)--Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Chapter 25
RESERVED
 
Chapter 26
SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT*
----------
   *State law references—Solid waste management, G.S. 130A-290 et seq.; local
government solid waste responsibilities, G.S. 130A-309.09A; placing refuse
within town, G.S. 160A-303.1.
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 26-1.   Administration and enforcement generally.
Sec. 26-2.   Right of entry.
Sec. 26-3.   Definitions.
Sec. 26-4.   Littering and illegal dumping.
Sec. 26-5.   Throwing or burning refuse.
Sec. 26-6.   Removal of dead animals.
Sec. 26-7.   Importation of solid waste.
Secs. 26-8—26-39. Reserved.
Article II. Solid Waste Collection
Sec. 26-40.   Availability and extent of service.
Sec. 26-41.   Limitations on service.
Sec. 26-42.   Collection fees.
Sec. 26-43.   Precollection practices.
Sec. 26-44.   Roll-out cart service.
Secs. 26-45—26-75. Reserved.
Article III. Yard and Leaf Waste Collection
Sec. 26-76.   Separation of compost from yard and leaf waste.
Sec. 26-77.   Availability and extent of service.
Sec. 26-78.   Limitations on service.
Sec. 26-79.   Ownership of yard and leaf waste material.
Sec. 26-80.   Disposal of yard and leaf waste material.
Secs. 26-81—26-110. Reserved.
Article IV. Solid Waste Recycling
Sec. 26-111.   Separation and collection of recyclable materials.
Sec. 26-112.   Availability and extent of service.
Sec. 26-113.   Limitations on service.
Sec. 26-114.   Ownership of recyclable solid waste materials.
Sec. 26-115.   Recycling containers.
Sec. 26-116.   Collection practices.
Secs. 26-117—26-145. Reserved.
Article V. Solid Waste Citizens' Convenience Center
Sec. 26-146.   Availability and extent of service.
Sec. 26-147.   Limitations on service.
Sec. 26-148.   Scavenging prohibited.
Sec. 26-149.   Use by the town.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 26-1. Administration and enforcement generally.
   (a)   The collection and removal of solid waste from premises in the town
shall be under the jurisdiction of the director of public works. Enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter shall be under the supervision of the director
of public works.
   (b)   When the public works director determines that a violation of the
requirements of this chapter exists, the director shall provide written notice,
hereafter referred to as a correction order, to the owner of the property
involved, naming the address of the property in violation, the specific
violation and a time period in which the owner or occupant shall correct the
violation. The director may also provide additional notices of violation by
other means as deemed appropriate.
   (c)   Should any owner, lessee or occupant fail or refuse to heed or comply
with a notice, the director may take or order direct actions to correct the
violation without additional notice and may bill the full town costs, including
an administrative fee, thereof to the property owner. Failure to pay the bill
may result in collection action by the town, which may include the placement of
a lien on the property until such time as the bill is paid and if not paid
within 30 days, shall be collected in the same manner provided for the
collection of delinquent taxes. Nothing contained herein shall limit the
authority of the town to summarily abate public health nuisances.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-1; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 05-003, 2-24-
2004; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 26-2. Right of entry.
   The director of public works or any of his assistants shall have the right
to enter at any reasonable time any premises for the purpose of making the
inspections or investigations as required by this chapter.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-3; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04,
10-10-2019)
Sec. 26-3. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Ashes shall mean refuse resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material.
   Building solid waste shall mean solid waste from construction, remodeling
and repair operations on houses, commercial buildings and other structures,
regardless of who is doing the construction, including, but not limited to,
excavated earth, stones, brick, plaster, lumber, concrete and waste parts
occasioned by installations and replacements.
   Combustible solid waste shall mean solid waste capable of being incinerated
or burned, such as garbage, paper, rags, boxes and wood.
   Director shall mean the director of public works of the town of Cary, or his
agent.
   Garbage shall mean animal and vegetable solid waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, including a minimum
amount of liquid necessarily incident thereto.
   Industrial solid waste shall mean solid waste from factories, processing
plants and other manufacturing enterprises, exclusive of building solid waste
and refuse.
   Land clearing debris shall mean solid waste which is generated solely from
land clearing activities, including, but not limited to, stumps, trees, brush
and other vegetative waste incidental to tree, brush and stump removal.
   Noncombustible solid waste shall mean solid waste not capable of
incineration or burning, such as ashes, cans, metals, mineral matter, glass and
crockery.
   Ordinances shall mean the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Cary, North
Carolina.
   Paper yard waste bag shall mean a sanitary kraft paper sack, or equal, of
30-gallon capacity, two-ply, 30-pound wet strength with decomposing glue and
reinforced self-supporting square bottom closure.
   Refuse shall mean solid waste, including, but not limited to, garbage,
rubbish and ashes.
   Regulations shall mean regulations of the director of public works of the
town of Cary, now or hereafter in effect, promulgated under this article or
other authority.
   Rubbish shall mean solid waste (exclusive of garbage and ashes) including,
but not limited to, papers, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, cans, metals, mineral matter, glass and crockery.
   Yard and leaf waste shall mean vegetative matter resulting from landscaping
maintenance with no earth or soil attached, including, but not limited to,
leaves, grass, twigs, certain limbs, hedge trimmings, plant trimmings, hay,
straw, pine straw, pine cones, and shrubs.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-4; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04,
10-10-2019)
Sec. 26-4. Littering and illegal dumping.
   (a)   Illegal dumping. No person shall throw, drop or deposit, or cause to
be thrown, dropped or deposited, on any street, avenue, alley, highway,
greenway, footway, sidewalk, park or other public place or on any land in the
town not owned by the person in question (vacant or occupied), any waste,
including, but not limited to, refuse, yard or leaf waste, land clearing
debris, building debris including material used in building, construction,
repair, remodeling, demolition and excavating operations, dead animals,
putrescible matter, paper, drinking cups, broken glass, and anything injurious
to health.
   (b)   Cleanup and removal. If any person, while transporting or hauling, or
causing to be transported or hauled such rubbish or solid waste material, or
earth excavation, coal or other material, shall throw, drop or deposit or cause
to be thrown, dropped or deposited, such rubbish or material from the body of
the vehicle, in violation of the provisions of this subsection, such person
must clean up and remove such rubbish or material in a manner and within a time
satisfactory to the public works code enforcement officer. Should any owner or
person refuse or fail to comply with such notice, the department of public
works may clean up and remove such rubbish and material and the town shall
collect the cost of such cleaning up and removal from such person.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-5; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04,
10-10-2019)
Sec. 26-5. Throwing or burning refuse.
   No person shall burn or cause to be burned any refuse, including yard and
leaf waste, on any street or sidewalk, in any catch basin or manhole of the
town.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-6; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-6. Removal of dead animals.
   Dead animals on the street or placed in solid waste containers will be
removed and buried as soon as practicable by the town after receipt of notice
thereof.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-7; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-7. Importation of solid waste.
   No person shall bring or cause to be brought into the municipal limits of
the town any leaf or yard waste, building debris, industrial waste, land
clearing debris, rubbish, refuse, garbage or any other type of solid waste for
the purpose of collection and disposal by the town, provided that the
prohibition contained in this subsection shall not apply to the deposit of
waste not injurious to the health of the public, where permission to make such
deposit is granted in advance by the town manager or his designated assistant,
nor to the filling in or grading of property with earth, mud, rubble masonry or
concrete or similar materials which has been permitted by the town.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-8; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Secs. 26-8--26-39. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. SOLID WASTE COLLECTION
Sec. 26-40. Availability and extent of service.
   The town shall collect, remove and dispose of all solid wastes, including,
but not limited to, garbage and rubbish, within the town limits, except in case
of emergency arising from an act of God or under circumstances over which the
town has or had no control, as set forth in this article. Service shall consist
of the collection of solid waste each week as set forth in the town solid waste
collection policy, except during weeks when holidays are authorized and during
which special schedules will be established.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-16; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-41. Limitations on service.
   (a)   Offices, businesses, industries and other premises that cannot be
serviced by two 95-gallon carts per each solid waste collection day must
arrange with private commercial collectors for service, and will not pay
sanitation charges to the town.
   (b)   Existing multi-family complexes with three or more units receiving
service prior to July 1, 2005.
   (1)   The department of public works shall be responsible for the collection
and removal of not more than four solid waste containers of 32-gallons capacity
and each weighing not more than 25 pounds on its prescribed collection days at
the cost prescribed annually in the town's budget for the fiscal year.
   (2)   All solid waste containers shall be placed in easily accessible,
ground level areas. The department of public works shall not be responsible for
the collection and removal of solid waste containers below ground level or on
second floors of buildings. The department of public works shall not be
required to enter any building, store, shed, fenced area or any other closed
structure for the collection of solid waste.
   (c)   Roll-out cart curbside service.
   (1)   The department of public works shall be responsible for the collection
and removal of solid waste containers of not over 95-gallon capacity on its
prescribed collection days at the cost prescribed annually in the town's budget
for the fiscal year.
   (2)   All solid waste roll-out carts shall be placed at the curb, not in the
street, on the sidewalk, or on your meter box. Roll-out carts shall be placed
"facing out" and away from light poles, mail boxes, or fire hydrants.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-17; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 05-014, 9-22-
2005; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 26-42. Collection fees.
   (a)   The charges for solid waste collection and disposal per month per
unit, as defined in this article, shall be prescribed annually in the town's
budget for the fiscal year.
   (b)   The charges prescribed by the town council shall apply to each
residence or business in the town that can be served within the limitations
noted. Several offices and businesses, which are served by the same water meter
and have one sanitation collection location with not more than two roll out
carts, shall pay one sanitation fee for this service.
   (c)   The monthly charge shall be billed by the town to each unit each month
and shall be payable with the town water and sewer billing within the time
limit fixed for the payment of the utility bill.
   (d)   If such charge shall not be paid as provided herein before, then the
town may discontinue further collection and removal of such solid garbage,
refuse, trash, and recyclable materials from the unit involved and the further
retention of such garbage, refuse, trash, and recyclable materials on the
property involved shall be unlawful and shall subject the resident of the unit
and the owner of the properties to all applicable health and sanitation
regulations and laws.
   (e)   No person other than the town shall perform, for pay, the service of
collecting, hauling and disposing of solid waste from within the town limits,
except as provided elsewhere in this chapter or unless such authorization is
given in writing by the town manager with the approval of the town council.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-18; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 05-014, 9-22-
2005)
Sec. 26-43. Precollection practices.
   (a)   Preparation of refuse.
   (1)   Garbage shall be placed in a plastic bag and deposited promptly in
solid waste cans or carts. If the garbage is wet, it shall have the liquid
drained off and it shall be wrapped in paper or other combustible material,
thus preventing smell and the breeding of flies in summer months and the
freezing and adhering to the sides of the can in winter months.
   (2)   All ashes must be fully extinguished prior to placement in solid waste
cans or containers for collection by the town.
   (b)   Solid waste containers.
   (1)   Existing multi-family complexes with three or more units receiving
service prior to July 1, 2005
      a.   Every person producing or having solid waste shall provide and keep
on the premises or property occupied or used by him sufficient solid waste
containers to handle all accumulations of solid waste on such premises or
property in the intervals between collections by the department of public
works; provided, that nothing in this subsection shall be interpreted to
increase the limitations on service otherwise prescribed in this article.
      b.   Each container shall be of such size and shape as to be handled by
one person and shall have a minimum of two handles. Each container shall have a
tight-fitting, watertight cover, shall be of metal or plastic construction,
shall have a capacity of not less than ten gallons, or more than 32 gallons,
shall be kept covered at all times, and shall be maintained in good,
serviceable condition, free from defects such as ragged or sharp edges that
will hamper or injure the persons collecting the contents thereof. Otherwise,
it must be promptly replaced by a proper container.
   (2)   Roll-out cart curbside service.
      a.   The town shall furnish each solid waste collection customer with a
roll-out cart. This container shall be used by each residential solid waste
collection customer to store solid waste materials. It shall be the
responsibility of each customer to maintain that container in a functional
state of repair and to report any damage to or loss of that container
immediately to the department of public works. Each container is and shall
remain the property of the town and shall remain at a customers' residence
after that customer has moved or otherwise vacated the dwelling.
   (c)   [Public nuisance.] All persons shall cover and secure all solid
wastes, keeping them in a clean and orderly manner and preventing them from
being scattered by animals, wind or other means, and becoming a public
nuisance. The person generating solid wastes that becomes a public nuisance
shall be responsible for the immediate cleanup of such material.
   (d)   Storing of solid waste.
   (1)   All combustible and noncombustible solid waste shall be stored in
containers complying with this article.
   (2)   Every owner and every occupant or other persons in control of any
building or land in the town, including vacant property, shall be kept the same
in a clean and orderly condition, shall not allow solid waste to accumulate in
any building or on any land (vacant or occupied), and shall deposit solid waste
for collection by the department of public works in accordance with the
provisions of this article and the town solid waste collection policy.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-19; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 05-014, 9-22-
2005; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 26-44. Roll-out cart service.
   (a)   All garbage shall be stored, pending collection by the town, in the
roll-out carts provided by the town, and the top of such containers shall be
kept securely fastened at all times. Such roll-out carts shall be kept between
scheduled pickups either within a completely enclosed substantial structure
such as a house, garage, or shed, or:
   (1)   If a lot has frontage on only one street, then such roll-out carts
shall be located behind the building line of the side of the principal building
on that lot that faces the street;
   (2)   If a roll-out cart is stored in front of the building line, it must be
screened so that it cannot be seen from the street.
   (b)   Roll-out carts shall be placed adjacent to the street (on the street
side of any drainage ditch or swale) for collection by 7:00 a.m. on the
scheduled collection day or no earlier than dusk prior to the collection day.
After collection, all roll-out carts shall be removed to a storage location
that complies with subsection (a) of this section by 6:00 a.m. on the day
following the collection day.
   (c)   Should roll-out carts remain at the curb and not comply with
subsection (a) of this section, a roll-in fee, established by the annual budget
ordinance, will be assessed on the second occurrence within a twelve-month
period.
   (d)   If the director determines that, because of the physical infirmity of
the occupant of any premises, the occupant cannot without severe hardship
transport the roll-out cart from the storage location required by subsection
(a) of this section to the collection point required by subsection (b) of this
section, he may authorize a special exemption service.
   (e)   The cost of the roll-out cart is included in the regular sanitation
fee. A monthly charge, in addition to the regular sanitation fee, for the use
of a second cart shall be established by the annual budget ordinance.
   (f)   Damage to the town's roll-out cart outside of normal wear and tear can
be assessed to the residence up to the full replacement cost of a new
container.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-21; Ord. No. 97-038, 10-9-1997; Ord. No. 05-014, 9-22-2005)
Secs. 26-45--26-75. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. YARD AND LEAF WASTE COLLECTION
Sec. 26-76. Separation of compost from yard and leaf waste.
   The town hereby establishes the mandatory separation of compostable yard and
leaf waste material from garbage, rubbish and other trash, by the residents of
the town, and for the collection of these yard and leaf waste materials at the
residents' curbside by the town employees or their agents.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-30; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-77. Availability and extent of service.
   (a)   The town shall collect, remove and dispose of all leaf and yard waste
from its residential solid waste collection customers within the town limits,
except in case of emergency arising from an act of God or under circumstances
over which the town has or had no control, as set forth in this article or in
the town solid waste collection policy. Service shall consist of curbside
collection of leaf and yard waste once each week, as set forth in the town
solid waste collection policy, except during weeks when holidays are authorized
and during which special schedules will be established.
   (b)   Anyone utilizing trash receptacles, of any size, to contain yard waste
for the collection by town crews, must follow the same rules in section
26-44(b), specifically, trash receptacles shall be placed adjacent to the
street (on the street side of any drainage ditch or swale) for collection by 7:
00 a.m. on the scheduled collection day or no earlier than dusk prior to the
collection day. After collection, all trash receptacles shall be removed to a
storage location that complies with subsection (a) of section
26-44 by 6:00 a.m. on the day following the collection day.
   (c)   Should yard waste receptacles remain at the curb and not comply with
subsection (a) of this section, a roll-in fee, established by the annual budget
ordinance, will be assessed on the second occurrence within a 12-month period.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-31; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 06-013, 7-27-
2006)
Sec. 26-78. Limitations on service.
   (a)   Curbside yard and leaf waste collection service shall be provided only
to residential solid waste customers of the town. This service will not be
provided to institutional, business, commercial or industrial solid waste
collection customers. Furthermore, this service does not include the collection
of land clearing debris.
   (b)   All yard and leaf waste materials not prepared and handled in
accordance with the provisions of the town solid waste collection policy shall
not be collected by the town or their agents.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-32; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-79. Ownership of yard and leaf waste material.
   Upon placement of yard and leaf waste material at curbside for collection by
the town or its agents in accordance with this article and the town's solid
waste collection policy, such yard and leaf waste materials shall become the
property of the town. It shall be a violation of this article for any person,
other than authorized agents of the town acting in the course of their
employment, to collect or pick up any yard and leaf waste material so placed.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-33; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-80. Disposal of yard and leaf waste material.
   All yard and leaf waste material shall be disposed of in accordance with all
applicable local ordinances and state and federal rules and regulations.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-34; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Secs. 26-81--26-110. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. SOLID WASTE RECYCLING
Sec. 26-111. Separation and collection of recyclable materials.
   The town hereby establishes the voluntary separation of selected recyclable
solid waste materials from garbage, rubbish and other trash, by the residential
solid waste collection customers of the town, and the collection of those
selected recyclable solid waste materials at the customer's curbside by the
town or its agents.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-40; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-112. Availability and extent of service.
   The town shall collect, remove and dispose of the designated recyclable
solid waste materials within the town limits, except in case of emergency
arising from an act of God or under circumstances over which the town has or
had no control, as set forth in this article or in the town solid waste
collection policy. Service shall consist of curbside collection of recyclable
solid waste materials once each week, as set forth in the town solid waste
collection policy, except during weeks when holidays are authorized and during
which special schedules will be established.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-41; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-113. Limitations on service.
   (a)   Curbside recyclable solid waste material collection service shall be
provided only to residential solid waste customers of the town. This service
will not be provided to institutional, business or commercial or industrial
solid waste collection customers. Furthermore, this service includes only those
recyclable solid waste materials set forth in the town solid waste collection
policy.
   (b)   All recyclable solid waste materials not prepared and handled in
accordance with the provisions of this article and the town solid waste
collection policy shall not be collected by the town or its agents.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-42; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-114. Ownership of recyclable solid waste materials.
   Upon placement of recyclable solid waste materials at curbside for
collection by the town or its agents in accordance with this article and the
town solid waste collection policy, such recyclable solid waste materials shall
become the property of the town, except those recyclable materials not prepared
and handled in accordance with the town solid waste collection policy and any
materials not included in the list of recyclable solid waste materials in the
town solid waste collection policy but placed at curbside for collection. It
shall be a violation of this article for any person, other than authorized
agents of the town acting in the course of their employment, to collect or pick
up any recyclable solid waste materials so placed.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-43; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-115. Recycling containers.
   The town shall furnish each solid waste collection customer with a special
container which is specifically designed for the collection of recyclable solid
waste materials. This container shall be used by each residential solid waste
collection customer to store recyclable solid waste materials. It shall be the
responsibility of each customer to maintain that container in a functional
state of repair and to report any damage to or loss of that container
immediately to the department of public works. Each container is and shall
remain the property of the town and shall remain at a customers' residence
after that customer has moved or otherwise vacated the dwelling.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-44; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04,
10-10-2019)
Sec. 26-116. Collection practices.
   (a)   Precollection practice. After the recyclable solid waste materials
have been properly prepared, those recyclable materials can be stored in the
recycling container until the designated collection day, at which time the
container and its contents shall be placed at curbside in front of the
customer's residence not later than 7:00 a.m., nor earlier than dusk of the day
prior to collection.
   (b)   Post-collection practice. After the recyclable materials have been
collected by the town or its agents, each solid waste collection customer who
has placed his recyclable materials collection container at curbside shall
retrieve his container from curbside and return the container to its storage
location in or at his residence, not later than 6:00 a.m. on the day following
the collection day.
   (c)   Should roll-out carts remain at the curb and not comply with this
section, a roll-in fee, established by the annual budget ordinance, will be
assessed on the second occurrence within a twelve-month period.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-45; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 05-014, 9-22-
2005; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-16-2023)
Secs. 26-117--26-145. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. SOLID WASTE CITIZENS' CONVENIENCE CENTER
Sec. 26-146. Availability and extent of service.
   (a)   The solid waste disposal convenience center is available to all town
residents who pay a monthly sanitation fee and wish to dispose of solid waste,
except as provided hereinafter.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-51; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992; Ord. No. 2019-Code-01, §
1, 3-28-2019)
Sec. 26-147. Limitations on service.
   (a)   Each person using the convenience center shall be responsible for
placing his solid waste in the containers provided for that purpose.
   (b)   The convenience center shall not be used by builders, contractors, or
developers or individuals acting as their own builder or contractor by
performing home or building construction, remodeling, repair, reconstruction or
demolition. Those persons must dispose of their building debris and solid waste
in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations,
rules and ordinances.
   (c)   The convenience center shall not be used for industrial, commercial or
business waste.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-51; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-148. Scavenging prohibited.
   No person shall enter the solid waste container or containers for the
purpose of scavenging, rummaging, ransacking or searching for articles of
refuse or other solid waste material placed in said container or containers. No
person shall be allowed to take away any articles from said container or
containers.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-52; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Sec. 26-149. Use by the town.
   The town shall use the convenience center facility as it deems necessary and
expedient to provide cost effective municipal services to the public.
(Code 1982, § 16.5-53; Ord. No. 92-37, § 1, 6-11-1992)
Chapter 27
RESERVED
 
Chapter 28
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES*
----------
   *State law references—Establishment and control of streets, G.S. 160A-296;
roads and highways, G.S. Ch. 136; authority of town to keep public ways free
from unnecessary obstructions, G.S. 160A-296(a)(2); placing dangerous objects
on highway, G.S. 136-91; obstructing highways as misdemeanor, G.S. 136-90;
openings, structures, pipes, trees and issuance of permits, G.S. 136-93.
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 28-1.   Injuring and defacing sidewalks, etc.
Sec. 28-2.   Street crossing--Construction; materials.
Sec. 28-3.   Same--Warning devices.
Sec. 28-4.   Trees and shrubbery.
Sec. 28-5.   Construction near sidewalk.
Sec. 28-6.   Reserved.
Sec. 28-7.   Assembly on streets, sidewalks, greenways, etc.
Sec. 28-8.   Snow and ice removal.
Sec. 28-9.   Special street cleaning or repair--When required.
Sec. 28-10.   Same--Action by town.
Sec. 28-11.   Same--Penalty; payment of costs.
Sec. 28-12.   Signs in the right of way prohibited.
Secs. 28-13—28-40. Reserved.
Article II. Sidewalk Construction and Maintenance
Sec. 28-41.   Created.
Sec. 28-42.   Purpose.
Sec. 28-43.   Construction by town; lien on property; indemnity bond.
Sec. 28-44.   Sidewalk construction costs.
Sec. 28-45.   Interpretation.
Sec. 28-46.   Financial policy; criteria.
Secs. 28-47--28-65. Reserved.
Article III. Street Paving
Sec. 28-66.   Paving with a petition.
Sec. 28-67.   Resurfacing without a petition.
Sec. 28-68.   Alternate policy.
Sec. 28-69.   Curbs and gutters.
Secs. 28-70--28-96. Reserved.
Article IV. Sight Distance Obstructions
Sec. 28-97.   Definitions.
Sec. 28-98.   Sight distance.
Sec. 28-99.   Exceptions.
Sec. 28-100.   Removal of obstruction.
Secs. 28-101--28-128. Reserved.
Article V. Excavations
Sec. 28-129.   Permit to alter street.
Sec. 28-130.   Maintenance of cuts.
Sec. 28-131.   Safety devices--Required.
Sec. 28-132.   Same--Tampering, etc.
Sec. 28-133.   Handling of excavated material.
Sec. 28-134.   Street repair.
Sec. 28-135.   Failure to make repairs promptly.
Secs. 28-136--28-153. Reserved.
Article VI. Encroachments
Sec. 28-154.   Purpose and intent.
Sec. 28-155.   Definitions.
Sec. 28-156.   Permission to encroach, through appropriate agreement, required.
Sec. 28-157.   Application for permission to encroach.
Sec. 28-158.   Public availability of applications to encroach.
Sec. 28-159.   Procedure for consideration of, and action on, applications.
Sec. 28-160.   Factors for review of application to encroach.
Sec. 28-161.   Indemnity, insurance and bonding requirements, and other terms
and conditions.
Sec. 28-162.   Responsibilities of persons granted permission to encroach.
Sec. 28-163.   Authority to encroach is nonexclusive.
Sec. 28-164.   Remedies.
Sec. 28-165.   Reserved.
Sec. 28-166.   Applicability.
Sec. 28-167.   Minor encroachments.
Secs. 28-168—28-185. Reserved.
Article VII. Parades and Picketing
Sec. 28-186.   Definitions.
Sec. 28-187.   Parade permit required (small parade exception).
Sec. 28-188.   Unlawful participation.
Sec. 28-189.   Permit--Possession and display.
Sec. 28-190.   Same--Application.
Sec. 28-191.   Same--Issuance.
Sec. 28-192.   Same--Alternate.
Sec. 28-193.   Same--Notice to town upon issuance.
Sec. 28-194.   Processing time of permit applications; notice of action.
Sec. 28-195.   Appeal.
Sec. 28-196.   Standards of conduct for parades.
Sec. 28-197.   Revocation of permit.
Sec. 28-198.   Vending along parade routes or at picket locations prohibited.
Sec. 28-199.   Interference prohibited.
Sec. 28-200.   Signs.
Sec. 28-201.   Parking restrictions.
Sec. 28-202.   Picketing--Permitted; conditions.
Sec. 28-203.   Same--Receipt of notice of intent; cessation.
Sec. 28-204.   Same--Receipt of notice, compliance required.
Sec. 28-205.   Same--Standards of conduct for activities.
Sec. 28-206.   Same--Interference with pickets prohibited; police authority to
disperse crowds; failure to leave when ordered.
Sec. 28-207.   Enforcement.
Secs. 28-208—28-209. Reserved.
Article VIII. Driveway Connection Permits
Sec. 28-210.   Purpose and intent.
Sec. 28-211.   Definitions.
Sec. 28-212.   Driveway connection permit required.
Sec. 28-213.   Permit application.
Sec. 28-214.   Requirements.
Sec. 28-215.   Permit expiration, permit revocation, and driveway abandonment.
Sec. 28-216.   Appeals.
Sec. 28-217.   Violations, penalties, enforcement.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 28-1. Injuring and defacing sidewalks, etc.
   No person shall loosen or remove any plank, board, block, brick, stone,
stringer or support from any sidewalk, crossing, bicycle path, or greenway.
(Code 1976, § 10-16; Code 1982, § 17-3; Ord. No. 85-3, § 1, 1-10-1985; Ord. No.
87-106, § 1, 12-10-1987)
Sec. 28-2. Street crossing--Construction; materials.
   All railroad street crossings in the town shall be constructed so as to
maintain a uniform grade over the entire width of the street intersection.
Methods and materials approved by the railroad and the director of
transportation and facilities shall be used for the construction of the
crossing. When the roadbed of the railroad shall be lower than the street, the
incline shall be uniform and gradual. Where crossings cannot be constructed so
as to meet the above requirements, elevated crossings shall be constructed
according to such plans as shall be submitted to and approved by the director
of transportation and facilities .
(Code 1976, § 13-4; Code 1982, § 16-1; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 28-3. Same--Warning devices.
   At all railroad street grade crossings where the town has not made any
greater requirements as to warning devices, a warning device facing oncoming
traffic in each direction shall be erected and maintained by the railroad
company which operates trains, engines or cars across such crossings. Said
warning devices shall comply with current state standards.
(Code 1976, § 13-1; Code 1982, § 16-2)
Sec. 28-4. Trees and shrubbery.
   (a)   No person owning property adjacent to any sidewalk, greenway, or
bicycle path shall allow any hedge or shrubbery of any kind whatsoever or
overhanging limbs from any tree upon the property of such owner to obstruct the
free use of the sidewalk or street; provided, that said property owner shall be
notified by the town manager to remove same.
   (b)   If the property owner shall fail to remove or cause to be removed such
obstruction within ten days after notice, the town manager may order such
removal and charge the costs thereof to the property owner.
(Code 1976, § 14-27; Code 1982, § 17-57; Ord. No. 87-106, § 2, 12-10-1987)
Sec. 28-5. Construction near sidewalk.
   Before building or remodeling at any place in close proximity to a public
sidewalk, an overhead covered passageway shall be constructed so as to leave
the sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Code 1976, § 14-28; Code 1982, § 17-58)
Sec. 28-6. Reserved.
Sec. 28-7. Assembly on streets, sidewalks, greenways, etc.
   All persons are forbidden from assembling, collecting together and standing
so as to obstruct any street, sidewalk, greenway or bicycle path, and all
persons so assembling, collecting together or standing shall disperse and move
upon the demand of any police officer.
(Code 1976, § 14-30; Code 1982, § 17-60; Ord. No. 87-106, § 4, 12-10-1987)
Sec. 28-8. Snow and ice removal.
   Every occupant of a store building, in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement, shall remove snow, ice or other
obstruction from such sidewalk at the earliest reasonable time and as soon as
the weather permits.
(Code 1976, § 14-33; Code 1982, § 17-61)
Sec. 28-9. Special street cleaning or repair--When required.
   (a)   The words "special cleaning or repair," as used in this section and
sections
28-10,
28-11, shall include cleaning, resurfacing, restoration of gravel and similar
repairs made necessary by prohibited acts, neglects or conditions.
   (b)   Any act, neglect or omission or any condition caused or allowed to
continue which creates, results in or causes a condition in or upon any public
street, sidewalk or storm drain which requires special cleaning or repair of
such street, sidewalk or storm drain is hereby prohibited.
   (c)   Prohibited acts, neglects, omissions and conditions which result in
requiring special cleaning or repair of such street shall include but shall not
be limited to:
   (1)   The hauling of dirt, debris and materials removed from the sites of
construction or reconstruction of buildings or structures, or waste materials
of any kind, in such manner that any portion of such dirt, debris or materials
is spilled, lost, dropped or left upon the streets, sidewalks, greenways or
bicycle paths.
   (2)   Depositing or leaving upon the streets, sidewalks, greenways, bicycle
paths or other ways of mud, dirt or other material as a result of the use of
trucks, construction equipment or machinery, regardless of whether such
materials are spilled, lost or dropped in transit or, are deposited upon the
surface of the street or public property by the tires and wheels of such
trucks, construction equipment or machinery.
   (3)   The grading of lots, or other land at elevations higher than street,
sidewalk, greenway, bicycle path or other way, or any other acts, neglects or
conditions created or allowed to exist upon such property which result in mud,
dirt, soil, gravel, debris or other materials being washed onto streets or
sidewalks or into the storm drainage system.
   (d)   Special cleaning or repairing of streets, sidewalks, bicycle paths,
greenways and the storm drainage system shall be deemed to be required when
their condition is such that the public health, safety, welfare or public use
of the same is threatened, limited or impaired; the use and enjoyment of
property abutting such streets or sidewalks is diminished or limited; or
substantial damage is caused to the streets, sidewalks or drainage facilities
or to such abutting property.
(Code 1976, § 14-36; Code 1982, § 17-62; Ord. No. 87-106, §§ 5, 6, 12-10-1987)
Sec. 28-10. Same--Action by town.
   (a)   Any person whose act, neglect, or omission causes or permits a
condition to exist or continue upon any street, sidewalk, greenway, or bicycle
path, or other way, or in any storm drain, which condition requires special
cleaning or repair shall, upon receipt of written notice from the town, perform
such special cleaning and repair upon and to such street, sidewalk or storm
drain.
   (b)   Upon failure of the person responsible to perform special cleaning and
repair after notice, the director of public works may cause the same to be
performed by his department, and in such event shall keep records of the costs
of such work, which may be computed on the basis of reasonably established per-
mile, or per-hour, or both costs of the use of equipment, plus labor and
materials, including water, likewise computed at cost to the town.
   (c)   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a manner as to
violate subsection (a) above and to create a hazardous condition, the
appropriate town official may order the specific part of such work which is
creating the violation to be immediately stopped. The order to stop shall be in
writing to the person whose act, neglect or omission causes or permits a
condition to exist or continue, and should state the specific work to be
stopped, the specific reasons thereof, and the conditions under which the work
may be resumed. Violation of a stop order shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Code 1976, § 14-35; Code 1982, § 17-63; Ord. No. 80-5, § 1, 2-28-1980; Ord.
No. 87-106, § 7, 12-10-1987)
Sec. 28-11. Same--Penalty; payment of costs.
   (a)   Any person whose act, neglect, omission or who, by permitting a
condition to continue (whether done or neglected directly or through an agent,
servant or employee) causes additional expense to the town for necessary
special cleaning or repair shall reimburse the town for its expenses upon
receipt of an itemized statement of expenses submitted by the town, and upon
failure to reimburse the town shall incur and be liable to the town for a civil
penalty of $200.00, in addition to such expenses.
   (b)   The department of public works shall send to any person responsible
for additional expense to the town an itemized statement of the expense
incurred and a request for reimbursement. The town attorney is authorized to
bring suit in the name of the town to recover any such unpaid expenses and
civil penalties.
(Code 1976, § 14-36; Code 1982, § 17-64; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
   State law reference—Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Sec. 28-12. Signs in the right of way prohibited.
   No sign may be placed within the right of way of any street located within
the corporate limits of the Town of Cary and maintained by the Town of Cary
unless expressly permitted by the Town of Cary Land Development Ordinance.
   Enforcement of this prohibition by the Town may be made through either the
Land Development Ordinance or this section. If enforced pursuant to this
section
28-12, the following shall apply: Any sign placed in violation of this section
shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be seized by an enforcement official
or other representative of the Town. Any person owning or placing a sign in
violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of $100 per day that the
sign remains in place and may be charged the cost of removing and disposing of
the sign. Violations of this provision shall not constitute a misdemeanor as
provided in G.S. 14-4.
   In addition, and as required by G.S. 136-32(f), any political sign that
remains in a right-of-way of streets located within the corporate limits and
maintained by the Town is to be deemed unlawfully placed and abandoned
property, and a person may remove and dispose of such political sign without
penalty.
(Ord. No. 2011Code-06, 9-27-2011; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-2020)
Secs. 28-13—28-40. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE*
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Special assessments, G.S. 160A-216 et seq.;
interest on assessments, G.S. 160A-233.
----------
Sec. 28-41. Created.
   (a)   In addition to all other funds established and maintained by the town,
there is hereby created and established a curb, gutter, street and sidewalk
assessment revolving fund.
   (b)   Money appropriated and paid into said fund shall be expended only for
the purpose of financing, in whole or in part, curb, gutter, street and
sidewalk projects, the cost of which is assessed, in whole or in part, against
owners of abutting property, and which are duly authorized by the town council
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 160A, art. 10 (G.S. 160A-216 et seq.).
(Code 1976, § 14-10; Code 1982, § 17-15)
   State law reference(s)--Payment of assessments in cash or by installments,
G.S. 160A-232.
Sec. 28-42. Purpose.
   It is the purpose and intent of this fund to provide an orderly method of
financing for continuing curb, gutter, street and sidewalk installations
without borrowing money.
(Code 1976, § 14-11; Code 1982, § 17-16)
Sec. 28-43. Construction by town; lien on property; indemnity bond.
   (a)   The town council may, without petition of abutting property owners,
require the construction, reconstruction, alteration or repair of sidewalks in
conformity with the provisions of the town charter.
   (b)   If any of such improvements are required of a property owner and the
property owner shall fail or refuse to make the same within 30 days after
notice thereof, the town council may cause such improvements to be made and
assess the cost thereof against the property abutting the improvement. In
making and collecting assessments for such improvements, the procedure outlined
in G.S. Ch. 160A, art. 10 (G.S. 160A-216 et seq.) shall be followed to the
extent that the same is not in conflict with the town Charter. In the event of
conflict in the provisions of the General Statutes and the Charter, the
provisions of the Charter shall control.
   (c)   As a condition of the issuance of a permit for such improvements (in
addition to the other requirements of this chapter, when such work is to be
done either by a person employed by the owner of the property abutting the
improvement, or by the town under contract, upon failure of such owner to do
the required work, after notice), the person making the improvement shall be
required to enter into a continuing indemnity bond, with sufficient surety,
upon condition that such work will be done in conformity with the standards
established by the town and that the town will be indemnified for any damages
it might sustain as a result of the breach of such condition. The damages
payable to the town shall be the amount required to make such sidewalk conform
to such town standards. The penalty of the bond shall be $1,000.00, but the
amount of damages recoverable by the town from the person failing to perform
the work in conformity with the town standards shall not be limited to the
penalty of the bond.
(Code 1976, § 14-12; Code 1982, § 17-17; Ord. No. 06-008, 4-27-2006)
Sec. 28-44. Sidewalk construction costs.
   (a)   If grading is required in the construction, reconstruction or
alteration of a sidewalk, the town will bear the cost of grading on the street
right-of-way and shall likewise bear the cost of replacing existing sidewalks
which are in good condition and meet the sidewalk standards of the town. The
property owner in such cases will bear the cost of sidewalk construction,
except as set out above, and shall pay for such relocation and construction of
driveways, steps and other means of access to his property from the street as
he may deem necessary.
   (b)   In making and collecting assessments for such improvements, the
procedure set forth in section
28-43(b) shall be followed.
(Code 1976, § 14-13; Code 1982, § 17-18)
Sec. 28-45. Interpretation.
   Nothing in this article shall be interpreted so as to relieve any owner of
land, developer or subdivider from installing at his total expense sidewalks as
and when required by other ordinances.
(Code 1976, § 14-26; Code 1982, § 17-30)
Sec. 28-46. Financial policy; criteria.
   (a)   The town will require the developer of a site or subdivision within
the town's jurisdiction to fund the installation of sidewalk in accordance with
the requirements of the town standard_specifications_and_details_manual as a
part of the proposed development. The town shall fund the construction of
sidewalk improvements approved for inclusion as a part of a proposed
thoroughfare project. The town shall assess at an established unit price per
foot, equating to the property owners paying 50 percent of the cost of
installing paved sidewalk along any streets in which the abutting property
owners request the installation of sidewalk. All financing by the town by
assessing the cost of constructing the sidewalk against abutting properties
shall be accomplished in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of the
town and the General Statutes of North Carolina, and in accordance with the
following:
   (1)   A petition must be filed with the director of transportation and
facilities. The petition must be signed by at least a majority in number of the
owners of property to be assessed, who must represent at least a majority of
all the linear footage of frontage of the property abutting on the street or
portion thereof to be improved. The petition must outline the reasons for the
installation of the requested sidewalk. The petition must specify that 50
percent of the cost of the improvement shall be assessed against the properties
abutting upon both sides of the street or portion thereof to be improved.
   (2)   In the event the town council is satisfied that all of the conditions
set forth in subsection (1) above have been met, the town council may approve
the construction of the requested sidewalk. The director of transportation and
facilities shall provide an estimate of the cost for the construction of the
requested sidewalk. The town council shall also appropriate funds for the
construction of the requested sidewalk if approved for construction.
   (3)   Assessments shall be in accordance with G.S. 160A-218. Assessments
levied pursuant to this article may be paid in cash or, at the option of the
property owner, in two equal annual installments bearing interest at the
statutory rate of eight percent per annum. The assessments shall be due and
payable within 30 days after publication of the notice that the assessment roll
has been confirmed without interest. Any property owner desiring to do so may
elect within this 30-day period to pay the assessment in two equal annual
installments with the first being due the following September 1 and the second
installment due one year thereafter.
   (b)   The town council shall, from time to time, establish a priority order
for the installation of paved sidewalk improvements based upon the sidewalk
rating system. Once a priority order for the installation of sidewalks is
established, or as it may from time to time be altered by the town council, the
council will order installation of sidewalks in accordance therewith from time
to time as funds are available for such installations.
   (c)   Paved sidewalks installed under this article by the town shall meet
all the following criteria:
   (1)   The street along which the paved sidewalk is to be installed shall be
paved and have curb and gutter along both sides.
   (2)   There shall be at least six feet of right-of-way between the back of
curb and the adjoining property line.
   (3)   The sidewalk shall be installed in accordance with the town standard
specifications_and_details_manual.
(Code 1976, § 14-25; Code 1982, § 17-31; Ord. No. 92-41, § 1, 8-12-1992; Ord.
No. 94-013, 5-12-1994; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Secs. 28-47--28-65. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. STREET PAVING
Sec. 28-66. Paving with a petition.
   (a)   The council will not consider the paving of any street (any of said
paving designated as improvements) unless and until a petition shall be
submitted requesting one or more of said improvements, specifically, signed by
more than 50 percent of the number of owners who represent more than 50 percent
of all the lineal feet of frontage of the lands, abutting upon the portions of
the street or streets or upon the sidewalks proposed to be so improved.
Improvements requested in the petition shall be clearly defined and the
petition shall refer to the authority of article 10, chapter 160A, section
160A-216 et seq., General Statutes of North Carolina (G.S. 160A-216 et seq.).
The petition shall be filed with the town clerk for submission to the council
and the council will consider and act upon such petition as soon as feasible
after submission.
   (b)   The council will not accept or consider a petition for paving on any
street which does not meet minimum width requirements according to the widths
prescribed for street classification as follows:
   (1)   Major thoroughfare: 45 feet (back to back of curbs).
   (2)   Collector street: 35 feet (back to back of curbs).
   (3)   Commercial street: 35 feet (back to back of curbs).
   (4)   Residential street including dead-end streets: 27 feet (back to back
of curbs).
   (c)   Property owners will not be required to pay for street paving in
excess of the cost of paving the width of a residential street.
   (d)   Any improvements as above described shall include storm drainage and
connections to water, sewer and gas mains by the respective properties as
required by the council.
   (e)   After consideration of a petition, the council shall determine whether
the improvements requested in such petition shall be made, and in the event the
council shall approve such improvements, the following policy shall be
applicable:
   (1)   The town will assess the abutting property for that portion of any
improvements to be paid by the abutting property owners at an equal rate per
foot of abutting property and shall proceed to collect the cost according to
the provisions of Carolina G.S. Ch. 160A, art. 10 (G.S. 160A-216 et seq.).,
except the full cost of curb cuts shall be assessed against the abutting
property.
   (2)   In the event the council shall deem it necessary or advisable for gas,
sewer and water extensions, or any of them, to be made from the mains in the
street to the property lines before any improvement is constructed, such
extensions may be made by the property owners upon reasonable notice given by
the town. If not done by the property owners within the time limit, the town
shall cause such extensions to be made and assessed against the property so
connected.
(Code 1976, § 14-22; Code 1982, § 17-43; Ord. No. 84-12, §§ 1--5, 4-26-1984)
   State law reference(s)--Determination of costs, G.S. 160A-226; corner lot
exemptions, G.S. 160A-219.
Sec. 28-67. Resurfacing without a petition.
   (a)   Pursuant to the town charter, whenever it shall become necessary to
resurface any street which has already been paved, the expense of resurfacing
will be borne by the town. The project may be undertaken without the necessity
of a petition. The installation of curbs, gutters and adequate storm drainage
facilities shall be required on streets when they are resurfaced, unless the
council orders that curbs and gutters be omitted, upon finding that
installation of curbs and gutters is not feasible, due to one of the following
reasons:
   (1)   Due to the topography of an area, the installation of curb and gutter
would not serve to enhance the adequate drainage of the street and those areas
abutting the street; or
   (2)   Due to the topography of an area, the installation of curb and gutter
would result in unusual and excessive costs, due to unusually large amounts of
earthwork; or
   (3)   Restrictions, such as the absence of sufficient right-of-way, do not
allow the construction of a standard-width street; or
   (4)   Restrictions caused by the location within the right-of-way of large
diameter trees or other stationary objects prevent the construction of a
standard-width street without the destruction of such objects.
   (b)   The town council will assess the costs of the street improvements,
exclusive of the costs incurred at street intersections, against the abutting
property owners at an equal rate per front foot, as provided in this section of
the Code.
   (c)   When a street improvement assessment project is undertaken along both
sides of a corner lot, half the lineal footage on the shorter side, or 150 feet
of the lineal footage on the shorter side, whichever is greater, shall be
exempt from assessment.
(Code 1982, § 17-43.1; Ord. No. 84-12, § 5, 4-26-1984; Ord. No. 06-008, 4-27-
2006)
Sec. 28-68. Alternate policy.
   In addition to the provisions of section
28-67, and as an alternate paving policy, the town council shall have the
authority, right and privilege, but not the duty, to pave at public expense,
from any appropriate fund, dirt streets existing within the municipal limits of
the town as of September 1, 1971. Any such paving authorized by the town
council shall be based upon priorities established by the town council, and
shall be based upon a finding of fact that such paving is necessary for the
general health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the town. The council may
require, in its sole discretion, that petitions be filed by adjacent property
owners, who shall petition for and agree to pay the entire cost of all
installation of curbing and guttering, storm drainage and other improvements
required by the council.
(Code 1976, § 14-24; Code 1982, § 17-44)
Sec. 28-69. Curbs and gutters.
   (a)   All curbs and gutters hereafter installed in the town shall be
standard curb and gutter 30 inches in width.
   (b)   Compaction tests meeting town standards and specifications for
streets, including curb and guttering areas, shall be provided at the expense
of the developer or owner when directed by the director of transportation and
facilities.
(Code 1976, § 14-23; Code 1982, § 17-45; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Secs. 28-70--28-96. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. SIGHT DISTANCE OBSTRUCTIONS
Sec. 28-97. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Horizontal area shall mean the geometric area formed between the curb line,
or the edge of pavement for streets without curb and gutter, and a line of
sight extended from the horizontal location of the driver's eyes of the design
vehicle as described in the town standard_specifications_and_details_manual.
   Obstruction shall mean any structure, fence, signs, walls, shrub, bush,
tree, flower, plant, cut slope, motor vehicle, or any other object that
obscures, impairs or prevents view or sight through, over and across the sight
distance area as herein defined.
   Sight distance shall mean the length of roadway visible to the driver who is
traveling along the roadway or waiting to enter or cross the roadway.
   Sight triangle shall mean the horizontal area and the vertical area and
shall exist at all street intersections and all driveways serving multifamily
and nonresidential property.
   Stopping sight distance shall mean the minimum distance required for a
driver to stop a vehicle traveling along the roadway at the design speed before
reaching a stationary object in its path based upon a wet pavement condition
and the grade of the roadway.
   Vertical area shall mean the area between three feet six inches and ten feet
above the horizontal area measured from the elevation of the intersecting
streets. However, along crest vertical curves, objects lower than three feet
six inches may affect sight distance.
(Code 1976, § 14-37 (1--4); Code 1982, § 17-76; Ord. No. 93-06, § 1, 2-11-1993)
Sec. 28-98. Sight distance.
   (a)   Sight distance requirements shall be in accordance with the criteria
outlined in the town standard_specifications_and_details_manual, including all
amendments approved by the town council. The town shall review all proposed
development plans, including site, subdivision, landscape plans, infrastructure
plans and sign plans for compliance with the requirements of the town standard
specifications_and_details_manual.
   (b)   These requirements shall be applicable within the corporate limits of
the town along all town-maintained streets. All new development within the
town's extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction shall meet these requirements as a
part of the plan approval process (see unified development ordinance).
(Code 1976, § 14-38; Code 1982, § 17-77; Ord. No. 93-06, § 1, 2-11-1993)
Sec. 28-99. Exceptions.
   (a)   This division may not apply to all objects located within sight
distance areas such that some objects may not significantly obstruct the
required visibility of the driver. The driver may be able to see over, under or
around some objects within sight distance areas. Objects that may be required
within sight distance areas include fire hydrants, utility poles and traffic
control devices which are located to minimize visual obstruction. Other objects
12 inches in diameter and smaller, such as tree trunks and sign posts, may be
allowed within sight distance areas if located individually or in combination
so as to not substantially restrict the driver's view. The determination of
what objects, if any, may be located within sight distance areas shall be made
by the director of transportation and facilities. Trees greater than 12 inches
in diameter and located in the street right-of-way shall be evaluated in
accordance with other applicable town policies and requirements.
   (b)   It is recognized that in some cases conditions may exist that prevent
the attainment of desirable sight distance due to social, economic or
environmental consideration. In such cases, the maximum practical sight
distance, up to the desirable values, shall be obtained. In addition, where
desirable sight distance is not attained additional measures, such as warning
signs, reduced speed zones and other traffic controls may be imposed. In all
cases, unless otherwise provided by ordinance or granted an exemption, the
minimum provision of adequate stopping sight distance shall be required.
Conditions existing within the town's B-1 business district prior to the
adoption of this division revision (February 11, 1993) shall be exempt from
these requirements, but shall, if practical, meet the requirements as a part of
any site development or building alteration.
(Code 1976, § 14-40; Code 1982, § 17-78; Ord. No. 93-06, § 1, 2-11-1993; Ord.
No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 28-100. Removal of obstruction
   The town shall remove sight distance obstructions located within the right-
or-way of town-maintained streets. The town will notify the state department of
transportation of sight distance obstructions located within the right-of-way
of state-maintained roadways. The town shall provide written notification to
the property owner(s) on which a sight distance obstruction exists on private
property. The property owner shall be responsible for the prompt removal of the
obstruction on their property and shall be solely liable for any and all
consequences resulting from their negligence and/or failure to remove the
obstruction.
(Code 1976, § 14-39; Code 1982, § 17-79; Ord. No. 93-06, § 1, 2-11-1993)
Secs. 28-101--28-128. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. EXCAVATIONS*
----------
   *State law reference--Authority of town to regulate excavations in streets
or sidewalks, G.S. § 160A-296(a)(6).
----------
Sec. 28-129. Permit to alter street.
   (a)   No person other than authorized employees of the town shall dig any
hole, ditch or excavation or make any alteration, or apply any foreign matter
including, but not limited to, any form of oil or sand, rock, dirt or concrete,
to any street in the town without first obtaining the written permission of the
town manager or designee.
   (b)   No person shall place in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk
or other public right-of-way any pipe, pole, wire, fixture or appliance of any
kind, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the town manager or
designee, except where such work is performed under a contract with the town.
All persons desiring a permit shall make written application therefor, which
application shall show the location of the proposed pipe, pole, wire, fixture
or other appliance and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be
cut, if any.
   (c)   No person shall install, construct or pave a driveway across any
public sidewalk, walkway, parkway or right-of-way, or into any street or alley,
or cut any curb for the installation, construction or paving of a driveway
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the town manager or designee.
All driveway entrances, curb cuts and restorations shall be performed in
accordance with town standards.
   (d)   All applications for permits pursuant to this section shall be
accompanied by a permit and inspection fee as outlined in the fee_schedule,
which is adopted with the fiscal year budget. Any person making application for
a permit pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this section shall, before such
permit is issued, file with the inspections and permit office a deposit of
money, cashier's check or a bond in some surety company authorized to do
business in North Carolina in the amount of 1 1/2 times the director of
transportation and facilities’ estimated cost of the work to be done,
guaranteeing the faithful performance of such work. The requirement for a
deposit or bond shall not apply to the application for a Permit for Minor
Encroachment pursuant to Sec.
28-167.
(Code 1976, § 14-14; Code 1982, § 17-91; Ord. No. 79-6, §§ 1, 2, 7-12-1979;
Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-13-2012; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 28-130. Maintenance of cuts.
   A person making a cut under this article shall remove all of the surface
material and earth excavated and leave the surface of the street and parking
area in a neat, sightly and clean condition.
(Code 1976, § 14-20; Code 1982, § 17-92)
Sec. 28-131. Safety devices—Required.
   No person making any excavation in any street, public alley or sidewalk
shall fail to securely cover such excavation with planks or place ropes around
the same three feet from the ground or fail to place an adequate number of red
lights or flares around such excavation before dark and keep such lights or
flares burning all night when such excavation shall be open.
(Code 1976, § 14-15; Code 1982, § 17-93)
Sec. 28-132. Same—Tampering, etc.
   No person shall:
   (1)   Remove, tear down or in any way interfere with any danger light, fence
or barrier provided for in this article;
   (2)   Drive or ride over or upon any streets, alleys, sidewalks or other
public grounds so enclosed, while the same is being improved; or
   (3)   In any way damage, injure or tamper with any part of such work.
(Code 1976, §14-16; Code 1982, § 17-94)
Sec. 28-133. Handling of excavated material.
   (a)   In making excavations or making improvements in or to any street,
sidewalk or public alley all material or earth removed and new material
necessary for repairs or for new work shall be handled in a safe manner and
placed where it will cause the least possible inconvenience to the public.
   (b)   In no case shall any of such material or earth be scattered over the
surface of the pavement.
(Code 1976, § 14-21; Code 1982, § 17-95)
Sec. 28-134. Street repair.
   Every person who shall open or dig any ditch, trench, or hole on any paved
street or public alley in the town shall restore said street or public alley in
accordance with the town's current "Standard_Specifications_and_Details" and
the same shall be approved by the town manager. Every person who shall open or
dig any ditch, trench, or hole on any public sidewalk or other public grounds
shall backfill said ditch, trench, or hole in accordance with the town's
current "Standard_Specifications_and_Details" and shall restore said sidewalk
or public grounds to at least as good a condition in all respects as it was
before, and the same shall be approved by the town manager.
(Code 1976, § 14-18; Code 1982, § 17-96; Ord. No. 85-14, § 1, 6-13-1985)
Sec. 28-135. Failure to make repairs promptly.
   No trench or opening made on any of the paved streets, alleys, sidewalks, or
other public grounds shall remain open longer than is absolutely necessary and
in no event more than three days, except by special written permission of the
town manager. If a cut remains open for longer than three days, maintenance of
same shall be executed by the town's forces at the expense of the person making
the cut if no extension of time was granted by the town manager or no
maintenance service was rendered within two hours of being notified to refill
cut or the person making the cut could not be notified when maintenance is
necessary for the public safety. The schedule of maintenance and repair fees
shall be set by the town council.
(Code 1976, § 14-19; Code 1982, § 17-97; Ord. No. 85-14, § 2, 6-13-1985)
Secs. 28-136--28-153. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. ENCROACHMENTS
Sec. 28-154. Purpose and intent.
   The purposes for, and intentions behind this article, are as follows:
   (1)   The public streets, whose primary purpose is movement of vehicular and
other traffic, are valuable public resources that have required, and will
continue to require, substantial investment by the town; and
   (2)   The town desires to structure and implement a fair and orderly process
for the application for, and granting of, permission for private parties to
occupy and use the public street or street rights-of-way, consistent with
applicable law, and which appropriately accounts for the varied reasons that
private parties seek such permission.
   (3)   The town desires to minimize inconvenience and disruption to the
public, provide for the orderly and efficient use of the public streets and
street rights-of-way, now and in the future, and to preserve adequate capacity
for existing and future uses of the public streets and street rights-of-way.
   (4)   The town intends to exercise, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, its authority in regulating the occupation and use of public
streets and street rights-of-way.
   (5)   Consistent with the foregoing, the town desires to provide a
simplified approval process for minor encroachments into streets, street
rights-of-way by adjoining landowners and into utility and access easement
interests of the town by the adjoining landowner where the landowner owns the
property that is subject to the town's easement interest, as provided in Sec.
28-167.
(Code 1982, § 17-101; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-
13-2012)
Sec. 28-155. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Encroach or encroachment means any digging in public streets or street
rights-of-way, or the placing therein, thereover or below any pipes, poles,
wires, fixtures or other appliances of any kind, either on, above, or below the
ground surface. It also includes such digging and placing of pipes, poles,
wires, fixtures or other appliances of any kind on, above or below the ground
surface in areas in which the town has a utility or access easement, unless
such activity is permitted by the applicable easement.
   Minor Encroachment means an encroachment for irrigation systems, fencing and
landscape plants and material provided all of the following requirements are
met:
   (i)   A Minor Encroachment is only available to an adjacent property owner
for encroachments into (a) public streets and street rights-of-way or (b) town
utility or access easement areas when the property owner owns the underlying
fee,
   (ii)   There is no disruption, even temporarily, of traffic flow,
   (iii)   There is no impact to paved or concrete surface,
   (iv)   There is no impact to the Town's ability to maintain or operate
public streets, street rights- of-way or its easement interests.
   Person shall mean an individual, partnership, association, organization,
corporation or any other legal entity including any lawful successor transferee
of said individual or entity.
   Public streets means the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, bridges and
other ways of public passage within the town's corporate limits, except for any
such streets or bridges over which authority and control is exercised by the
board of transportation.
   Street rights-of-way or a street right-of-way means the real property
interest the town holds over or adjoining existing public or private streets,
or in corridors reserved for future public streets.
   Town manager means the manager or assistant manager of the town of Cary or
their designee.
(Code 1982, § 17-102; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-
13-2012)
Sec. 28-156. Permission to encroach, through appropriate agreement, required.
   (a)   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to encroach
upon any public street, street rights-of-way or town easement areas without
first receiving permission to do so from the town pursuant to this article.
   (b)   Permission to encroach shall be granted in appropriate cases through
the terms of a non- exclusive, revocable encroachment permit or encroachment
agreement, to be signed by the applicant and the town manager, using whatever
form the town devises for that purpose. However, if the applicant must also
receive a franchise for their intended business or activity from the town,
permission to encroach upon a public street or street right-of-way may be
granted through the terms of an appropriate franchise agreement.
(Code 1982, § 17-103; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-
13-2012)
Sec. 28-157. Application for permission to encroach.
   (a)   Application for permission to encroach upon a public street or street
right-of-way shall be submitted to the town manager, and shall be submitted on
any form the town devises for that purpose.
   (b)   All persons desiring authorization to encroach upon a public street or
street right-of-way must provide the town with the following information:
   (1)   Identify the relevant public street or right-of-way;
   (2)   A description of the items the person desires permission to install in
the public street or right-of-way, and the purpose those items would serve;
   (3)   A description of how the person intends to install the item in the
public street or street right-of-way, including whether any excavation in the
public street or right-of-way will be required;
   (4)   Whether installation of the relevant items will cause any temporary
disruption in traffic flow in any public street, and if so, what precautions
the applicant intends to take to minimize that disruption, and to protect human
safety;
   (5)   A site plan, with sufficient detail to show the proposed location of
the items the applicant seeks permission to install in the public street or
street right-of-way, including any manholes or overhead poles, the size, type
and proposed depth of any conduit or other enclosures, and the proximity of the
applicant's items, if installed, to all existing poles, utilities, sidewalks,
pavement, telecommunications or cable systems, and other improvements existing
in the relevant public streets or street rights-of-way;
   (6)   A proposed construction schedule and sequence;
   (7)   Identify and describe any insurance the person has, or would obtain if
granted permission to encroach on the relevant public street or street rights-
of-way, that will cover his desired activities in the public street or street
rights-of-way. (Homeowners seeking permission to encroach on a street right-of-
way adjoining their residence should check their homeowners' policy in this
regard);
   (8)   The name, address and telephone number of the person the town may
contact concerning the application; and
   (9)   Such other information as the town may determine to be necessary or
appropriate to evaluate the application or otherwise in furtherance of the
public interest.
   (c)   Business and other commercial applicants, in addition, should submit
the following information:
   (1)   A general description of the person's business; and
   (2)   A description of the services, if any, the person proposes to provide
to others through the infrastructure he desires permission to install in the
right-of-way, identifying also the geographic scope in which such services
would be provided, and to whom they would be provided.
   (d)   Any person who must also receive a franchise from the town for their
intended business or activity may provide the information set forth above in
their franchise application.
   (e)   The town may reject any application to encroach upon a public street
or street right-of-way that is incomplete or otherwise fails to comply with the
terms of this article or other applicable law.
(Code 1982, § 17-104; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-
13-2012)
Sec. 28-158. Public availability of applications to encroach.
   Applications and other submissions by which any person seeks permission to
encroach upon any public street or street right-of-way, including any
additions, modifications or amendments thereto, shall be available for public
inspection at the town engineering department during normal business hours.
(Code 1982, § 17-105; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-
13-2012)
Sec. 28-159. Procedure for consideration of, and action on, applications.
   (a)   The authority to grant a private party permission to encroach upon a
public street or street right-of-way shall be exercised by the town manager or
designee. In the manager's discretion, however, the town manager may submit any
application for permission to encroach for review and an initial decision to
the town council, with or without a recommendation from the town manager. In
such cases, the grant of authority, if given, will be made by adoption of a
resolution by the town council. In any case, the grant of such authority shall
be conditioned upon such terms as shall be specified in the relevant
encroachment or franchise agreement.
   (b)   The town may make such investigations and take or authorize the taking
of such other steps as they deem necessary or appropriate to consider and act
upon applications to encroach upon a public street or street right-of-way and
determine whether such applications should be granted.
   (c)   If a business or commercial applicant seeks permission to encroach
upon public street or street right-of-way, the town may set a public hearing to
give the public an opportunity to comment on the application.
(Code 1982, § 17-106; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-
13-2012)
Sec. 28-160. Factors for review of application to encroach.
   (a)   In deciding whether to grant any application for permission to
encroach upon any public street or street right-of-way, the town may consider
such factors as it deems appropriate and in the public interest, provided such
factors are consistent with applicable law, including without limitation:
   (1)   The willingness and ability of the applicant to meet construction and
physical requirements and to abide by all lawful conditions, limitations,
requirements and policies with respect to the encroachment;
   (2)   The ability of the applicant to maintain the property of the town in
good condition throughout the term of the relevant franchise or encroachment
agreement;
   (3)   Any services or uses of the public streets or street rights-of-way
that may be precluded by the grant of the requested permission to encroach, and
the adverse impact of the proposed encroachment on the efficient use of the
public streets and street rights-of-way at present and in the future;
   (4)   The adequacy of the terms and conditions of the proposed encroachment
or franchise agreement to protect the public interest, consistent with
applicable law; and
   (5)   Any other public interest factors or considerations that the town has
a lawful right to consider and that are deemed pertinent by the town for
safeguarding the interests of the town and the public.
   (b)   Consistent with applicable law, the town may develop and implement
policies and requirements to ensure that the public streets have sufficient
capacity reasonably to accommodate existing and future uses in a rational and
efficient manner. In evaluating an applicant for the right to encroach upon a
public street or street right-of-way, the town may consider an applicant's
proposals for addressing capacity needs and compliance with town policies and
requirements in that regard.
(Code 1982, § 17-107; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000)
Sec. 28-161. Indemnity, insurance and bonding requirements, and other terms and
conditions.
   (a)   No permission to encroach on any public street or street right-of-way
shall be granted unless, as a condition to that grant, the applicant is willing
to and agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the town, its officers,
boards, commissions and employees against any and all claims and liabilities
arising from the person's activities or items in the public street or street
right-of-way, including reasonable attorneys fees and court costs.
   (b)   Depending upon the extent of a person's desired excavation,
construction or other activities in any public street or street rights-of-way,
the town may exercise its authority to require an applicant to secure and
provide documentation of an appropriate performance bond or letter of credit,
and/or insurance, covering such activities, pursuant to terms acceptable to the
town.
   (c)   The other terms and conditions by which the town grants a person
authority to encroach upon a public street or street right-of-way shall be set
forth in the relevant permit, encroachment or franchise agreement.
(Code 1982, § 17-108; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-
13-2012)
Sec. 28-162. Responsibilities of persons granted permission to encroach.
   It shall be the responsibility of each person granted permission to encroach
upon a public street or street right-of-way to:
   (1)   Ensure that any excavation, construction or other work done by them or
on their behalf in the relevant public street rights-of-way is performed
consistent with the town's published standard_specifications_and_details for
construction activities, including the requirements therein regarding
restoration of the affected area.
   (2)   If requested by the town due to a need for the town or its contractors
to complete any work in a public street or street right-of-way, temporarily
remove or relocate their items located below or above the public street, or
within the street right-of-way.
   (3)   Otherwise comply with the terms of their encroachment permit or
agreement or the encroachment provisions in their franchise agreement, and all
applicable laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and other
directives of the town and any federal, state or local governmental authority
having jurisdiction over the person's activities in or near such rights-of-way.
(Code 1982, § 17-109; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000; Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-
13-2012)
Sec. 28-163. Authority to encroach is nonexclusive.
   Any grant of permission to encroach upon a public street or street right-of-
way given by the town pursuant to this article shall be nonexclusive. The town
specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, such additional rights
of access to the public streets or street rights-of-way that it deems
appropriate.
(Code 1982, § 17-110; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000)
Sec. 28-164. Remedies.
   In the event that any person encroaches upon a public street or street
right-of-way without prior permission from the town, or violates the conditions
by which authority to do so were granted by the town, or otherwise violates any
provision of this article, the town manager or designee may, in addition to any
other remedies provided by any other applicable article or other law:
   (1)   Issue an order to the person commanding them to immediately cease and
desist their unpermitted or otherwise wrongful activities in the public street
or street right-of-way, and to restore the affected area;
   (2)   Revoke any permission previously granted allowing the permission to
encroach in a public street or street right-of-way;
   (3)   Issue civil penalties up to $500.00 per day for any continuing
violation of this article; or
   (4)   Any combination of the above-referenced remedies.
(Code 1982, § 17-111; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000)
Sec. 28-165. Reserved.
Sec. 28-166. Applicability.
   To the extent permitted by law, the town may determine to apply all or
certain provisions of this article to persons granted permission to encroach
upon a public street right-of-way before the effective date of the ordinance
from which this article is devised.
(Code 1982, § 17-113; Ord. No. 00-031, 12-14-2000)
Sec. 28-167. Minor Encroachments.
   (a)   Minor Encroachments, in part because of their limited applicability
and the fact that they apply only to private property abutting street rights-
of-way, are unlikely to create much, if any, impact on the orderly and
efficient use of the public street rights-of-way, particularly if done in
accordance with clearly established requirements. Therefore, the town manager
may grant an adjacent property owner ('Applicant') a non-exclusive, revocable
permit to encroach into street rights-of-way as necessary for the installation
of parts of irrigation systems, fences and landscaping plants and materials.
The manager may also consent to such encroachments into town access and utility
easements, provided the Applicant owns the underlying fee.
   (b)   All applications for a permit for Minor Encroachment shall be in
writing on such form as the town may require and shall be subject to and in
accordance with this Article and Article V, except no performance bond or
letter of credit shall be required.
(Ord. No. 2012-Code-07, 12-13-2012)
Secs. 28-168—28-185. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII. PARADES AND PICKETING
Sec. 28-186. Definitions.
   For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall be defined as
follows:
   Block shall mean that portion of any street lying between its intersections
with other streets.
   Chief of police shall mean the chief of police of the Town of Cary, or
designee.
   Parade shall mean any parade, march, or procession of any kind, in or upon
the public streets involving more than four pedestrians or more than three
vehicles; provided, however, the term shall not include:
   (1)   Funeral processions;
   (2)   Students going to or from classes or participating in educational or
recreational activities where such activity is under the supervision and
direction of proper school authorities;
   (3)   Foot races and bicycle races involving no more than ten participants;
   (4)   Bands and marching groups proceeding to an assembly point for
participation in a parade;
   (5)   The activities of any governmental agency acting within the scope of
its authority;
   (6)   Picketing, as such term is defined in this article; and
   (7)   A parade that is conducted under the sponsorship of the town.
   Picket line, picketing and pickets shall mean demonstrations, demonstrators,
persons participating in vigils, and other persons primarily promoting or
objecting to a policy or public issue whose actions take place entirely upon
the sidewalks or, if there is no sidewalk, those portions of the public ways
not used primarily for vehicular parking or moving traffic and are conducted
within a single block.
(Code 1982, § 12-213; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-187. Parade permit required (small parade exception).
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, in or upon any public street within the town limits, unless a
permit therefore has been issued by the chief of police in accordance with the
provisions of this article. A parade permit shall not be required for any
parade consisting of fewer than 4 pedestrians or 3 vehicles; however, notice of
such small parade may be made in accordance with Section
28-202.
(Code 1982, § 12-214; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-188. Unlawful participation.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any parade
except in conformance with the provisions of this article.
(Code 1982, § 12-215; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-189. Permit--Possession and display.
   The person in whose name the permit has been issued shall carry the permit
for the parade upon his or her person during the conduct of the parade.
(Code 1982, § 12-216; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-190. Same--Application.
   (a)   A written application, on a form supplied by the town, shall be made
to the chief of police by persons desiring to have a parade. Such application
shall be submitted at least 72 hours, but not more than 90 days, in advance of
the date on which the parade is proposed to occur. Notwithstanding the
preceding, where good cause is shown for inability to make application at least
72 hours in advance, and when the chief of police finds that the time from the
date of filing is sufficient for the town to prepare for the parade pursuant to
the standards set forth in this article, the chief of police shall consider
applications filed after the deadline, in accordance with the provisions of
this article.
   (b)   Employees of the police department of the town shall indicate on the
face of the application the time of receipt by the police department. The
application shall be signed by the applicant and shall include the following:
   (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
   (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by an
organization, the name, address and telephone number of both the headquarters
of the organization and of its authorized head, and a local number for the
organization if there is one;
   (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person to be present and
responsible for the conduct of the parade (who is referred to in this article
as "parade leader"), and, if the parade leader is someone other than the
applicant, the application shall be signed by both the applicant and the parade
leader;
   (4)   The date the parade will be held;
   (5)   The proposed location, by street number or intersection, of any
assembly areas for such parade;
   (6)   The proposed time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble
at any such assembly area(s);
   (7)   The proposed times at which the parade will begin and terminate;
   (8)   The proposed route to be traveled, the starting and terminating
points, or the location of the parade if there is no traveling;
   (9)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or a portion of
the width of the streets, sidewalks, parks, alleys, or other public places
proposed to be traversed or occupied;
   (10)   The approximate number of persons, animals and vehicles expected to
participate, and the type of animals and a description of any vehicles;
   (11)   Any alternate date proposed in case of inclement weather or other
emergency conditions arising between the date of permit issuance and the event
date;
   (12)   Any additional information which the chief of police shall find
reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit shall be
issued.
   (c)   The application, and information provided therein, shall be a part of
any permit that is granted.
   (d)   If the parade will create noise which will violate the noise control
ordinance of the town, a noise permit, issued pursuant to this Code, must also
be obtained.
(Code 1982, § 12-217; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-191. Same--Issuance.
   (a)   Unless the chief of police makes one or more of the findings specified
below, a permit, on a form supplied by the town, shall be issued to the
applicant. The permit shall be issued in the name of the applicant, or in the
name of the parade leader, if different from the applicant. The permit shall be
deemed issued under the terms and for the purposes stated in the application,
unless otherwise noted. The permit shall set the duration, speed of travel, and
space between persons or vehicles in the parade; may prescribe the portions or
areas of streets, alleys, sidewalks or other public places to be used; and may
impose such other reasonable requirements necessary for the control and free
movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, including emergency services, to
protect the safety and property rights of participants and of the general
public. The town reserves the right and authority to have police officials on
the scene to further designate (expand or limit) permitted area(s) in
furtherance of the ordinance in the best interest of all parties involved.
   (b)   The application for a permit shall be issued by the chief of police,
unless the chief, based on specific facts stated, makes any of the following
findings in writing:
   (1)   Adequate provision cannot be made for the safe and orderly movement of
the parade and for other traffic, pedestrian and vehicular, contiguous to its
route;
   (2)   The parade cannot be held without unreasonable interference with the
provision of normal police or fire protection or emergency services to the
public;
   (3)   The parade cannot be held without unreasonable interference with the
right of property owners in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful use and
occupancy of their property;
   (4)   The standards set forth in section
28-196 will not be met;
   (5)   The parade will require the closing of, or unreasonably restrict the
flow of vehicular traffic along, a highway under the control of the state. If
this is the case, the applicant should seek permission from appropriate state
officials prior to making reapplication for a parade permit.
   (c)   In the event the chief of police denies an application, the chief
shall so notify the applicant, in writing, specifying the reason(s) for the
denial. Such notice of denial shall be mailed to the applicant at the address
shown on the application. If the parade is proposed to be held within five days
of the date of the notice of denial, the chief of police shall also cause the
police department to make a reasonable attempt to notify the applicant of the
denial by telephone, or other appropriate means.
(Code 1982, § 12-218; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-192. Same--Alternate.
   The chief of police, in denying an application as submitted, may grant a
permit for a date, time, place, or over a route different from that named by
the applicant, or may impose requirements and conditions other than those
contained in the application. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate
permit shall, within 24 hours after notice of the denial and offer of an
alternate permit, file with the chief of police a written notice of acceptance
of the alternate permit, on a form supplied by the town. An alternate permit,
once accepted, shall conform to the requirements and shall have the effect of a
permit issued strictly in response to an application.
(Code 1982, § 12-219; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-193. Same--Notice to town upon issuance.
   Immediately upon the issuance of a parade or picketing permit, the chief of
police shall send a copy of such permit to the following persons:
   (1)   The town manager;
   (2)   The town attorney;
   (3)   The town fire chief;
   (4)   The town director of public works; and
   (5)   Public information officer.
(Code 1982, § 12-220; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-194. Processing time of permit applications; notice of action.
   Applications shall be processed and permits, or denials thereof, issued as
expeditiously as possible, and in no event more than 48 hours after receipt of
the complete application. If the application was submitted more than 15 days in
advance of the parade, the permit, notice of denial of the permit, or notice of
permit denial and offer of alternate permit, shall be mailed by first class
mail to the applicant at the address shown on the application. In all other
cases, the police department shall, in addition to mailing, exercise reasonable
diligence to attempt to notify the applicant by telephone, or other reasonable
means of communication, of the action taken as soon as possible.
(Code 1982, § 12-221; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-195. Appeal.
   (a)   Any person aggrieved by action taken pursuant to this article may file
a written "notice of appeal of the action of the police chief" with the town
manager within 5 business days of the Police Chief's action. Such written
notice shall identify the person filing the appeal and shall specify with
particularity the facts and basis for the appeal. The town manager shall act on
the appeal as expeditiously as possible.
(Code 1982, § 12-222; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008; Ord.
No. 2019-Code-03, 9-26-2019)
Sec. 28-196. Standards of conduct for parades.
   All applicable laws and regulations and the following standards shall apply
to all parades conducted in the town:
   (1)   No more than one parade may be conducted within the town at any one
time;
   (2)   The prohibitions contained in G.S. 14-277.2 against possession of
dangerous weapons shall be strictly enforced; and
   (3)   No person shall cause or permit a vicious animal to participate in, or
proceed along the route of, a parade.
   (4)   No parade may be conducted on weekdays between the hours of 7 am to 9
am, or between 4 pm to 6 pm, or on holidays and weekends before 9 am. All
parades must be conducted during daylight hours.
(Code 1982, § 12-223; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-197. Revocation of permit.
   The chief of police may revoke any permit granted for a parade for the
following causes:
   (1)   The substantial violation of this article or the terms and conditions
of the permit; or
   (2)   The violation of other laws by those participating in the parade.
(Code 1982, § 12-224; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-198. Vending along parade routes or at picket locations prohibited.
   It is unlawful for any persons to sell or offer for sale any goods, wares,
or merchandise in or on any portion of the adjacent streets, sidewalks, or
rights-of-way of a parade or picketing location during the times that a parade
or picket is in progress and for 30 minutes before and for 30 minutes after the
end of the parade or picket.
(Code 1982, § 12-225; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-199. Interference prohibited.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade being
conducted under authority of a lawfully issued permit. No driver of any vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such
vehicles or persons are in motion and identifiable as a parade under this
article. No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any picket
line or picketing lawfully conducted.
(Code 1982, § 12-226; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-200. Signs.
   Signs or posters carried by participants in a parade, picketers, or by
bystanders shall be made of cardboard no thicker than one-fourth-inch. Signs
may be no larger than 24 inches by 24 inches. Supports for such signs or
posters shall be made of a nonmetallic material no larger than 3 1/2 inches by
one inch.
(Code 1982, § 12-227; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-201. Parking restrictions.
   The chief of police, when reasonably necessary, may prohibit or restrict the
parking of vehicles along a street or highway constituting a part of the route
of a parade or picket. The chief of police shall cause signs to be posted to
such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street if such signs are posted less than 12 hours in advance.
(Code 1982, § 12-228; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-202. Picketing--Permitted; conditions.
   Peaceful picketing shall be permitted in the town, provided such picketing
is done in accordance with the following conditions:
   (1)   Except for the small group exception set forth below, no picketing
shall be conducted on the sidewalks or public ways of the town and no person
shall participate in picketing unless notice of intent to picket has been given
to the chief of police and a receipt for such notice has been issued and is
carried at the picket by the person to whom issued;
   (2)   A group consisting of fewer than ten persons may picket without
providing a notice of intent to picket ('small group exception'), although such
notice is encouraged to enable the Town to plan and prepare to protect the
safety and property rights of participants and of the general public;
   (3)   The notice of intent to picket shall contain the following
information:
      a.   The name, if any, of the organization or group sponsoring or
proposing to picket, unless the group desires anonymity, in which case no name
is required.
      b.   The location or locations, by block, in the town where the pickets
propose to assemble and picket;
      c.   The date(s) and hour(s) during which the picketing is to occur; and
      d.   The identity of person(s) organizing or otherwise in charge of the
picketing activity, unless anonymity is desired and the name of the participant
who will carry the receipt of notice at the picket.
   (4)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in picketing before or about
the residence or dwelling of any individual.
(Code 1982, § 12-229; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-203. Same--Receipt of notice of intent; cessation.
   (a)   Upon the receipt of a notice of intent to picket, properly completed
as specified herein, the chief of police or their designee shall immediately
issue a receipt of notice. The receipt of notice shall contain all information
stated in the notice of intent to picket.
   (b)   In the event picketing ceases for 24 hours or more, a new notice of
intent to picket and receipt of notice shall be required before resumption of
picketing.
   (c)   To enable the Town to plan and prepare to protect the safety and
property rights of participants and of the general public a group of 50 or more
persons desiring to picket must provide written notice at least 24 hours in
advance of the commencement of picketing.
(Code 1982, § 12-229.1; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-204. Same--Receipt of notice, compliance required.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or participate in any
picketing in the town unless in the company of the person to whom a receipt of
notice of intent to picket has been issued, unless the person qualifies under
the small group exception. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or
participate in picketing except in compliance with the provisions of this
article.
(Code 1982, § 12-229.2; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-205. Same--Standards of conduct for activities.
   (a)   Picketing shall be conducted only on the sidewalks or portions of the
public ways not used primarily for vehicular parking or moving traffic.
   (b)   Picketers may carry written or printed placards or signs, provided
such signs meet the requirements set forth in section
28-200 above.
   (c)   If pickets promoting different objectives, causes, actions, or
policies desire to use a sidewalk that is already used for picketing, the chief
of police shall allot time to each group of pickets for the use of the sidewalk
on an equitable basis.
   (d)   Pickets shall use the outermost half of the sidewalk or other public
way nearest the street and shall not at any time, nor in any way, obstruct,
interfere with, or block:
   (1)   Persons entering or exiting from vehicles;
   (2)   Persons crossing streets or otherwise using the public way;
   (3)   The entrance or exit of any building or access to property; or
   (4)   Pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (f)   No person picketing, or observing or assisting pickets, shall bring to
the picket, or allow to remain in the area of the picket, any vicious animal.
   (g)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaging in picketing to carry,
possess, or have in his or her immediate access any dangerous weapon, as such
term is defined in G.S. 14-269, 14-269.2, 14-284.1 and 14-288.8.
   (h)   The town reserves the right and authority to have police officials on
the scene to further designate (expand or limit) permitted area(s) in
furtherance of the ordinance in the best interest of all parties involved
(Code 1982, § 12-229.3; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-206. Same--Interference with pickets prohibited; police authority to
disperse crowds; failure to leave when ordered.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to physically interfere with
pickets in the use of the sidewalk or to address profane, indecent, abusive, or
threatening language to or at those pickets which would tend to provoke the
pickets or others to a breach of the peace.
   (b)   The police officers of the town may, in the event of the assemblage of
persons in such numbers as would tend to intimidate pickets pursuing their
lawful objectives, direct the dispersal of persons so assembled and may arrest
any person who fails to absent himself or herself from the place of assemblage
when so directed by the police.
   (c)   Whenever the free passage of any street or sidewalk in the town shall
be obstructed by a crowd, the persons composing such crowd shall disperse or
move on when directed to do so by a police officer. It shall be unlawful for
any person to refuse to so disperse or move on when so directed by a police
officer as herein provided.
(Code 1982, § 12-229.4; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Sec. 28-207. Enforcement.
   The town may enforce this article in any of the following ways:
   (1)   Criminal enforcement. By treating the violation thereof as a criminal
misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-9.
   (2)   Civil enforcement. By the levy of a civil penalty in the amount of
$300.00. Civil penalties remaining unpaid after seven days may be collected by
means of a civil action in the nature of debt.
   (3)   Equitable remedies. By pursuing equitable remedies that will issue
from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Code 1982, § 12-229.5; Ord. No. 95-010, 3-9-1995; 2008-Code-09, 11-20-2008)
Secs. 28-208—28-209. Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. DRIVEWAY CONNECTION PERMITS
Sec. 28-210. Purpose and intent.
   The Town finds it to be in the public interest to regulate the size,
location, direction of traffic flow, and manner of construction of driveway
connections into the public streets.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017)
Sec. 28-211. Definitions.
   Abandoned means use of the driveway connection has been discontinued for a
period of 180 days or more.
   Director means the Director of the Transportation and Facilities Department.
   For good cause shown means situations or circumstances in which the driveway
connection permit has not expired and the entity seeking the extension does not
have direct and/or complete control of a related aspect of the project that is
essential, and contributes, to completion of construction of the driveway
connection. Examples of such situations shall include, but are not limited to:
   •   Appeal of an approval, permit or other similar decisions brought about
by an entity other than the applicant and filed in accordance with all
applicable procedures and requirements; and
   •   Inaction or delay by another governmental agency or approval authority
with respect to the review/approval of a related or component aspect of the
project.
   Public streets or streets means the public streets, sidewalks, alleys,
bridges and other ways of public passage within the town's corporate limits and
extraterritorial planning jurisdiction.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017)
Sec. 28-212. Driveway connection permit required.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, or use a driveway
connecting to a public street except in accordance with the requirements of
this Article, the Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual, and the terms and
conditions of a valid and unrevoked driveway connection permit.
   (b)   A Town driveway connection permit is required for new driveway
construction, modification of an existing driveway, or replacement of an
existing driveway for all driveways that connect to Town maintained streets.
   (c)   A Town driveway connection permit for driveways onto Town-maintained
streets is also required for any change in use of a site used for non-
residential purposes when
   (1)   The current driveway is in disrepair and does not meet the Town
minimum design;
   (2)   The change of use results in an additional 50 peak hour trips above
the existing use;
   (3)   The existing driveway does not meet current ADA accessibility
requirements; or
   (4)   There are significant changes to the parking layout, circulation
patterns, or on-site vehicle storage associated with the change in use.
   (d)   Failure to secure a driveway connection permit in violation of this
Article may result in closure of the driveway and/or removal of the driveway at
the expense of the property owner.
   (e)   Any driveway constructed on a state-maintained street must also
conform to the requirements of the current “Policy on Street and Driveway
Access to North Carolina Highways” published by the North Carolina Department
of Transportation.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017)
Sec. 28-213. Permit application.
   (a)   Application for a driveway connection permit shall be made on any form
the Town devises for that purpose and a fee may be charged for submission of
the application. The driveway connection permit shall be reviewed and approved
by the Transportation & Facilities Director, or a designated representative,
prior to the issuance of any building permit for the erection, construction,
remodeling, alteration, or change of use of the building, structure, or
property utilizing the driveway.
   (b)   The following information must be provided with the application:
   (1)   A complete plan view of the site (drawn to engineering scale between
1:20 to 1:50) showing existing and proposed buildings with interior parking
layout and traffic circulation patterns;
   (2)   Existing and proposed driveway locations and dimensions, including but
not limited to:
      i.   Distance from other streets and driveways on both sides of street;
      ii.   Distance from property lines;
      iii.   Width of public right-of-way; and
      iv.   Curb radii.
   (3)   Profile of entrance and exit grades;
   (4)   Proposed pavement markings;
   (5)   Traffic control plans (if needed);
   (6)   Horizontal and vertical sight distance calculations and dimensions;
   (7)   Existing and proposed sidewalk, street side trails, bicycle paths, or
other multi-modal features;
   (8)   Street names, right-of-way, pavement, and median widths and locations
of street returns on corner lots;
   (9)   Proposed location of off-street loading and unloading zones;
   (10)   Retaining walls, drainage structures, utility poles, fire hydrants,
traffic control cabinets, and other physical features which may affect the
driveway location and sight distance;
   (11)   The type of proposed driveway and standard detail that applies; and
   (12)   Such other information as the Town may determine to be necessary or
appropriate to evaluate the application or otherwise in furtherance of the
public interest.
   (c)   The Town may reject any application that is incomplete or otherwise
fails to comply with the terms of this article or other applicable law.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017)
Sec. 28-214. Requirements.
   (a)   All driveway connections must meet all requirements of this Article,
the Standard Specification and Details Manual, and the terms and conditions of
any Town-issued or NCDOT-issued driveway connection permit.
   (b)   The Town may require the dedication to the public and construction of
medians, acceleration and deceleration lanes, and traffic storage lanes if (1)
the need for such improvements is reasonably attributable to the traffic using
the driveway; and (2) the improvements serve the traffic of the driveway.
   (c)   The Town may require an applicant to secure and provide documentation
of an appropriate performance bond or letter of credit, and/or insurance,
pursuant to terms acceptable to the Town.
   (d)   No street or alley under the control of the Department of
Transportation may be improved without the consent of the Department of
Transportation. However, if there is a conflict between the written driveway
regulations of the Department of Transportation and the related driveway
improvements required pursuant to this Article, the more stringent requirement
shall apply.
   (e)   The owner of the property upon which a driveway is located shall
maintain the driveway through its operational lifetime.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017)
Sec. 28-215. Permit expiration, permit revocation, and driveway abandonment.
   (a)   Construction of a driveway connection must be completed within one
year after the issuance of a driveway connection permit. An extension may be
granted by the Transportation & Facilities Director for good cause shown. A
request for an extension must be submitted in writing at least 14 days prior to
the permit expiration date.
   (b)   A driveway connection permit may be revoked for failure to comply with
this Article, the Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual, or the terms and
conditions of a driveway connection permit. If a driveway connection permit is
revoked, the Town may require the permittee or property owner to physically
eliminate the driveway and replace or repair the sidewalk, if applicable. If
the permittee or property owner does not physically eliminate the driveway and
replace or repair the sidewalk within a reasonable period of time, the Town may
do so and charge the expense to the permittee or property owner.
   (c)   If a driveway connection is abandoned, the Town may require the
permittee or property owner to physically eliminate the driveway and replace or
repair the sidewalk, if applicable. If the permittee or property owner does not
physically eliminate the driveway and replace or repair the sidewalk within a
reasonable period of time, the Town may do so and charge the expense to the
permittee or property owner.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017)
Sec. 28-216. Appeals.
   Appeal of a denial of a driveway connection permit shall be made in writing
to the Town Manager within ten (10) days of the decision, stating with
particularity the grounds for the appeal. An appeal hearing shall be scheduled
and conducted by the Town Manager or Deputy Town Manager, who shall render a
written decision. Any appeal from the decision of the Town Manager or Deputy
Town Manager shall be to the Superior Court for Wake County (or Chatham County
if the subject property is located within that jurisdiction) by petition for a
writ of certiorari. Any such petition to the Superior Court shall be filed with
the Court Clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of the decision.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017)
Sec. 28-217. Violations, penalties, enforcement.
   In the event that any person constructs, maintains, or operates a driveway
in violation of this Article, the Transportation & Facilities Director or
designee may, in addition to any other remedies provided by any other
applicable article or other law:
   (1)   Issue an order to the person commanding them to immediately cease and
desist their unpermitted or otherwise wrongful activities;
   (2)   Revoke any permission previously granted permitting the driveway
connection;
   (3)   Issue civil penalties up to $500.00 per day for any continuing
violation of this Article; or
   (4)   Any combination of the above-referenced remedies.
(Ord. No. 2017-Code-01, 1-5-2017)
Chapter 29
RESERVED
 
Chapter 30
TAXATION
Sec. 30-1.   Required; registration period; fee; penalty.
Sec. 30-1. Required; registration period; fee; penalty.
   (a)   Every motor vehicle listed for ad valorem taxes, as required by
general statutes, resident in the town shall be billed and shall pay a separate
vehicle license fee. The amount of the fee shall be contained within the annual
operating budget of the town.
   (b)   The billing and payment of this fee will be along with ad valorem
taxes. No sticker or decal will be required for display.
(Code 1976, § 16-2; Code 1982, § 12-27; Ord. No. 84-16, § 1, 8-23-1984; Ord.
No. 85-20, § 1, 7-11-1985; Ord. No. 86-25(c), 6-26-1986; Ord. No. 88-14, § 1,
9-22-1988; Ord. No. 00-013, 6-28-2000)
   State law reference(s)--Municipal motor vehicle taxes, G.S. 160A-213, 20-97.
Chapters 31--33
RESERVED
 
Chapter 34
TRAFFIC AND VEHICLES*
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60719.jpg]New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 28-6 has been Repealed and replaced by Ord. 2024-
CODE-04, approved 12-12-2024.
----------
   *State law references—Powers of local authorities as to traffic, G.S. 20-
169; municipal traffic-control, G.S. 160A-300; municipal control of streets,
G.S. 160A-296.
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 34-1.   Definitions.
Sec. 34-2.   Authority of police in special cases.
Sec. 34-3.   Government vehicles.
Sec. 34-4.   Push carts/animal-drawn vehicles, etc.
Sec. 34-5.   Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles.
Sec. 34-6.   Boarding or alighting while vehicle in motion.
Sec. 34-7.   Riding--In passenger areas.
Sec. 34-8.   Same--Without permission.
Sec. 34-9.   Same--Inside vehicle.
Sec. 34-10.   Same--In front seat.
Sec. 34-11.   Roller skates; skateboards.
Sec. 34-12.   Schedule of traffic and parking regulations; incorporation by
reference.
Sec. 34-13.   Bus and passenger loading zones designated.
Sec. 34-14.   One-way streets designated.
Sec. 34-15.   Operation of vehicles on trails, etc.
Secs. 34-16--34-33. Reserved.
Article II. Parking Violations Bureau
Sec. 34-34.   Established.
Sec. 34-35.   Notice of traffic violation.
Sec. 34-36.   Civil penalty for violation.
Sec. 34-37.   Penalties payable to school board.
Sec. 34-38.   Failure to answer charges; penalties.
Sec. 34-39.   Towing.
Secs. 34-40--34-66. Reserved.
Article III. Traffic Control Devices
Sec. 34-67.   Obedience by drivers.
Sec. 34-68.   Right turns on red.
Sec. 34-69.   Method of turning at intersections.
Sec. 34-70.   No-parking zone markers.
Sec. 34-71.   Avoiding signal at intersection.
Sec. 34-72.   Quiet zone.
Sec. 34-73.   Recreational streets.
Sec. 34-74.   Temporary street closings and designation of parking or no-
parking zones due to special events.
Sec. 34-75.   Traffic control signal preemption.
Secs. 34-76--34-93. Reserved.
Article IV. Stopping, Standing and Parking
Sec. 34-94.   Obstructing traffic generally.
Sec. 34-95.   Warning devices on service vehicles.
Sec. 34-96.   Parallel parking.
Sec. 34-97.   Reserved parking spaces.
Sec. 34-98.   Vehicles backed up to curb.
Sec. 34-99.   Stopping with left side to curb.
Sec. 34-100.   Parking within lines.
Sec. 34-101.   Illegal parking.
Sec. 34-102.   Advertising.
Sec. 34-103.   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in certain places.
Sec. 34-104.   Fifteen-minute parking zones designated.
Sec. 34-105.   One-hour parking zones generally.
Sec. 34-106.   Two-hour parking zone.
Sec. 34-107.   Parking prohibited in designated places--At all times.
Sec. 34-108.   Same--During certain hours.
Sec. 34-109.   Lights on parked vehicles.
Sec. 34-110.   Stop before entering certain street intersections.
Sec. 34-111.   Stop streets designated.
Sec. 34-112.   Parking of oversized vehicles and trailers prohibited.
Sec. 34-113.   Parks and recreation facilities; unauthorized parking.
Sec. 34-114.   Town facilities; unauthorized parking.
Secs. 34-115--34-141. Reserved.
Article V. Operation of Vehicles Generally
Sec. 34-142.   Vehicles emerging from alley or driveway.
Sec. 34-143.   Vehicles moving from parked positions.
Sec. 34-144.   Turning around.
Sec. 34-145.   Backing.
Sec. 34-146.   Yield right-of-way signs.
Sec. 34-147.   Turning at channelized intersections.
Sec. 34-148.   Commercial vehicles on certain streets.
Sec. 34-149.   Speed limit on through highways and state maintained streets.
Sec. 34-150.   Speed limit on nonhighway streets.
Sec. 34-151.   Speed limits in school zones.
Sec. 34-152.   Limitations on privilege of overtaking and passing--Generally.
Sec. 34-153.   Same--On specified streets.
Secs. 34-154--34-174. Reserved.
Article VI. Movement of Heavy Vehicles or Articles
Sec. 34-175.   Special permits
Sec. 34-176.   Change of route.
Secs. 34-177--34-205. Reserved.
Article VII-A. Abandoned Vehicles
Sec. 34-206.   Purpose.
Sec. 34-207.   Administration.
Sec. 34-208.   Definitions.
Sec. 34-209.   Determination of abandoned vehicles.
Sec. 34-210.   Administrative search and inspection warrants.
Sec. 34-211.   Abandoned vehicles unlawful; removal authorized.
Sec. 34-212.   Towing authorized.
Sec. 34-213.   Notice of removal of vehicle; pre-towing notice requirements.
Sec. 34-214.   Notice of removal of vehicle; post-towing notice requirements.
Sec. 34-215.   Hearing.
Sec. 34-216.   Sale and disposition of vehicle.
Sec. 34-217   Disposition of proceeds of sale.
Sec. 34-218.   Exceptions.
Sec. 34-219.   Civil penalty.
Sec. 34-220.   Article cumulative.
Article VII-B. Junked Vehicles
Sec. 34-221.   Purpose.
Sec. 34-222.   Administration.
Sec. 34-223.   Definitions.
Sec. 34-224.   Determination of junked vehicles.
Sec. 34-225.   Administrative search and inspection warrants.
Sec. 34-226.   Junked vehicles unlawful; removal authorized.
Sec. 34-227.   Towing authorized.
Sec. 34-228.   Notice of removal of vehicle; pre-towing notice requirements.
Sec. 34-229.   Notice of removal of vehicle; post-towing notice requirements.
Sec. 34-230.   Hearing.
Sec. 34-231.   Sale and disposition of vehicle.
Sec. 34-232.   Disposition of proceeds of sale.
Sec. 34-233.   Exceptions.
Sec. 34-234.   Civil penalty.
Sec. 34-235.   Article cumulative.
Secs. 34-236—34-240. Reserved.
Article VIII. Bicycles and Motorcycles
Sec. 34-241.   Application of traffic laws to bicycles.
Sec. 34-242.   Obedience to traffic control devices.
Sec. 34-243.   Manner of riding bicycle.
Sec. 34-244.   Riding abreast on roadways.
Sec. 34-245.   Emerging from alley or driveway.
Sec. 34-246.   Speed.
Sec. 34-247.   Clinging to moving vehicles.
Sec. 34-248.   Riding on handlebars, etc.
Sec. 34-249.   Hands on handlebars; carrying articles.
Sec. 34-250.   Riding on sidewalk.
Sec. 34-251.   Equipment on bicycles.
Sec. 34-252.   Parking.
Sec. 34-253.   Motorcycles and off-highway motor vehicles generally.
Sec. 34-254.   Exemption for police bicycle patrols.
Sec. 34-255.   Bicycle helmets required.
Sec. 34-256.   Penalty.
Secs. 34-257--34-275. Reserved.
Article IX. Operation of Golf Carts on Public Streets and Roads
Sec. 34-276.   Authority to regulate.
Sec. 34-277.   Definitions.
Sec. 34-278.   Operation on public streets and roads.
Sec. 34-279.   Streets and roads approved for use.
Sec. 34-280.   Other residential streets and roads approved for use of golf
carts.
Sec. 34-281.   Enforcement.
Sec. 34-282.   Liability disclaimer.
Secs. 34-283--34-300. Reserved.
Article X. Infractions
Sec. 34-301.   Certain violations an infraction.
Secs. 34-302—34-320. Reserved.
Article XI. Schedules
Secs. 34-321—34-334. Reserved.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 34-1. Definitions.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60719.jpg]New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 34-1 has been amended by Ord. 2023-CODE-02, approved
4/13/2023.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Authorized emergency vehicles shall mean vehicles of the fire department,
police department and such ambulances as designated or authorized by the chief
of police.
   Bicycle path shall mean, but shall not be limited to, that portion of a
street between the roadway designated for motor vehicular traffic, curblines,
or lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for
use by bicycles. Bicycle path shall also mean a linear open space along a
natural or human-made corridor to which pedestrian and bicycle access has been
granted for the purpose of public passive recreation or as a transportation
corridor for bicycle traffic only.
   Block shall mean a portion of any street located between two intersections
next adjacent to each other.
   Business district shall mean the territory contiguous to a road or street
where 75 percent or more of frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more
is occupied by buildings in use for business purposes, or as otherwise defined
by ordinance of the state board of transportation.
   Crosswalk shall mean that portion of a roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections or any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   Driver shall mean as provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
   Greenway shall mean a linear open space along a natural or human-made
corridor which is used for public passive recreation and under the jurisdiction
of the town of Cary.
   Intersection shall mean as provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
   Motor vehicle shall mean as provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
   Official traffic control devices shall mean all signs, signals, markings and
devices, not inconsistent with this chapter, placed or erected by authority of
the town council or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
   Official traffic signals shall mean any device, whether manually,
electrically or mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed
to stop and to proceed.
   Park shall mean the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
   Pedestrian shall mean any person afoot.
   Police officer shall mean every officer of the police department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   Private road or driveway, shall mean as provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
   Public conveyance shall mean any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad
train for transporting for fare.
   Public vehicular area shall mean as provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
   Railroad shall mean a carrier of persons or property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails.
   Railroad train shall mean a steam engine, electric or other motor, with or
without cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails.
   Residential district shall mean the territory contiguous to a street not
comprising a business district where 75 percent or more of the frontage on such
street for a distance of 300 feet or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by
dwellings and buildings in use for business, or as otherwise defined by
ordinance of the state department of transportation.
   Right-of-way shall mean the privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   Roadway shall mean as provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
   Safety zone shall mean as provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
   Sidewalk shall mean that portion of a street between the curblines, or the
lateral lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the
use of pedestrians.
   Standing shall mean any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   Stop, when required, shall mean complete cessation of movement.
   Stop or stopping, when prohibited, shall mean any stopping of a vehicle
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the direction of a police officer or traffic control sign or signal.
   Street or highway shall mean the entire width between property lines of
every way or place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   Traffic shall mean pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes of
travel.
   Vehicle shall mean as provided in G.S. 20-4.01.
(Code 1976, §§ 16-1(1--28), 16-10; Code 1982, § 12-1; Ord. No. 87-103, § 1, 12-
10-1987)
   State law reference(s)--Definitions, G.S. 20-4.01.
Sec. 34-2. Authority of police in special cases.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 16-7; Code 1982, § 12-3)
Sec. 34-3. Government vehicles.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter or by state statutes, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by,
or used in the service of, the United States government, this state, county or
town.
(Code 1976, § 16-9; Code 1982, § 12-4)
   State law reference(s)--Application of state traffic laws vehicles owned by
government, G.S. 20-168.
Sec. 34-4. Push carts/animal-drawn vehicles, etc.
   Every person propelling any push cart, or riding an animal, or driving any
animal-drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions which,
by their very nature, can have no application.
(Code 1976, § 16-10; Code 1982, § 12-5)
   State law reference(s)--Application of state traffic laws to animals or
animal drawn vehicles, G.S. 20-171.
Sec. 34-5. Exemptions to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (a)   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this chapter, except that a driver when operating such vehicle in an
emergency, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, may:
   (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
   (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation.
   (3)   Exceed the speed limits so long as he does not endanger life or
property.
   (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement, or turning, in
specified directions so long as he does not endanger life or property.
   (b)   The foregoing exemptions shall not protect the driver of any such
vehicle from the consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of
others.
(Code 1976, § 16-11; Code 1982, § 12-6)
Sec. 34-6. Boarding or alighting while vehicle in motion.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle
while such conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Code 1976, § 16-57; Code 1982, § 12-7)
Sec. 34-7. Riding--In passenger areas.
   (a)   No person shall ride on any public conveyance or vehicle or any
portion thereof not designed or intended for the use of passengers.
   (b)   This section shall not apply to any employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty, or to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces
intended for merchandise.
(Code 1976, § 16-58; Code 1982, § 12-8)
Sec. 34-8. Same--Without permission.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride in or on any automobile or other
vehicle without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Code 1976, § 16-59; Code 1982, § 12-9)
Sec. 34-9. Same--Inside vehicle.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his body to protrude beyond
the limits of the vehicle in which he is riding, except to give such signals as
are by law required, and no person shall hang onto any vehicle whatsoever.
(Code 1976, § 16-60; Code 1982, § 12-10)
Sec. 34-10. Same--In front seat.
   No driver or person in charge of any motor vehicle shall permit more than
three persons (including the driver) to ride in the front or driver's seat of a
motor vehicle.
(Code 1976, § 16-61; Code 1982, § 12-11)
Sec. 34-11. Roller skates; skateboards.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for riding or to ride or
roll upon any roller skates, skateboard or similar device in or upon any public
street, excluding sidewalks, on any day after sunset or before sunrise.
   (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, being the parent or guardian of a
minor, to suffer or permit such minor to violate subsection (a) of this
section.
(Ord. No. 77-16, § 1, 5-12-1977; Code 1982, § 12-12)
Sec. 34-12. Schedule of traffic and parking regulations; incorporation by
reference.
   (a)   Whenever the provisions of this chapter establish specific traffic and
parking regulations and restrictions which are effective only upon certain
streets, parts of streets or street areas which are not generally identifiable,
or at certain times or for periods of time which are not generally applicable,
such traffic and parking regulations, and the locations and/or times where and
when the same are effective shall be set out upon official traffic_schedules,
as amended from time to time by the Town Council or the director of
transportation and facilities as appropriate, and retained permanently in the
office of the Town Clerk.
   (b)   All official traffic_schedules adopted under the authority of this
chapter are hereby incorporated by reference and shall be as effective as if
set out in full herein. Such traffic_schedules shall be deemed to be "technical
ordinances" under the provisions of G.S. 160A-76(b).
(Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-2009; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 34-13. Bus and passenger loading zones designated.
   (a)   The portions of streets described in Traffic_Schedule 1, Bus and
Passenger Loading Zones, are hereby designated as bus or passenger loading
zones in some locations during specified hours.
   (b)   No person, except the operator of a public passenger transport bus,
shall park, stop, allow to stand or leave unattended any vehicle within any bus
loading zone.
   (c)   No person shall park, stop, allow to stand or leave unattended any
vehicle in any passenger loading zone except for such reasonable time as may be
required for a passenger to alight from or enter such vehicle.
(Code 1976, §§ 16-62, 16-63; Code 1982, §§ 12-13, 12-14; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06,
5-14-09)
Sec. 34-14. One-way streets designated.
   (a)   The streets or portions of streets described in Traffic_Schedule 2,
One-way Streets, are hereby designated as one-way streets.
   (b)   Vehicular traffic shall move on one-way streets only in the indicated
direction, when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained.
(Code 1976, § 16-64; Code 1982, § 12-15; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-15. Operation of vehicles on trails, etc.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or otherwise operate a
vehicle or personal delivery device upon any trail or bicycle trail designated
as greenway which is publicly owned and maintained, or to which public access
has been granted in any manner by any private property owner. This shall not
include nonmotorized bicycles or the operation of vehicles engaged in property
maintenance or in other services authorized by the town.
   (b)   It shall be lawful for any person to ride or otherwise operate an
electric assisted bicycle upon any trail or bicycle trail designated as
greenway which is publicly owned and maintained, or to which public access has
been granted in any manner by any private property owner, as long as the
electric assisted bicycle is being propelled at least partially by human power.
(Ord. No. 87-103, § 2, 12-10-1987; Code 1982, § 12-16; Ord. No. 2024-Code-03,
11-14-2024)
Secs. 34-16--34-33. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU*
----------
   *State law references—Uniform schedule of offenses set by Chief District
Judges, G.S. 7A-148; costs in criminal actions, G.S. 7A-304; infractions
applied to municipal ordinances regulating parking, G.S. 14-4; handicapped
parking regulations, G.S. 20-37.6; parking prohibited in certain locations,
G.S. 20-162; prima facie evidence rule for parking violations, G.S. 20-162.1;
enforcement of ordinances by city, G.S. 160A-175; city authorized to regulate
parking, G.S. 160A-301.
----------
Sec. 34-34. Established.
   (a)   Pursuant to G.S. 14-4(b), violations of the parking regulations
enumerated in this chapter are deemed infractions.
   (b)   As an alternative system of administering parking violations, there is
hereby established under the supervision of the chief of police the parking
violations bureau, which shall be located in the police headquarters section of
the town government campus.
(Code 1982, § 12-41; Ord. No. 98-007, § 1, 6-11-1998)
Sec. 34-35. Notice of traffic violation.
   Whenever a member of the town police department, or other person charged by
ordinance or charter with the enforcement of the provisions of this code
regulating the parking of vehicles, shall find that any of such provisions are
being or have been violated by the owner or operator of any vehicle, such
officer shall notify the owner or operator of such vehicle of the alleged
violation by conspicuously attaching to such vehicle or delivering to the owner
or operator a notice or ticket clearly stating the violation charged and
requiring such owner or operator to respond to the charge(s) within five days
after such violation.
(Code 1982, § 12-42; Ord. No. 98-007, § 1, 6-11-1998)
Sec. 34-36. Civil penalty for violation.
   (a)   Violations of the parking regulations contained in this chapter shall
subject the offender to the civil penalties hereinafter enumerated. The town in
a civil action in the nature of debt may recover civil penalties.
   (b)   No person shall park any vehicle in a manner:
   (1)   As to obstruct fire hydrants or fire lanes;
   (2)   That results in the vehicle being parked or left standing:
      a.   In a space designated in conformance with G.S. 20-37.6(d) for
handicapped or visually impaired persons, when the vehicle does not display the
distinguishing license plate or placard or disabled veteran license plate
issued as required by state statute; or
      b.   So as to obstruct a curb ramp or curb cut for handicapped persons,
as provided for by the state building code or as designated in G.S. 136-44.14.
   (3)   That results in an oversized vehicle being parked or left standing.
   (4)   That violates any other section of the Town Code.
   (c)   The penalties for violations of the traffic regulations listed in this
Chapter shall, except as otherwise provided by law, be established by the Town
Council through adoption of the annual operating budget ordinance.
(Code 1982, § 12-43; Ord. No. 98-007, § 1, 6-11-1998; Ord. No. 00-007, § 1, 3-
9-2000; Ord. No. 00-034, § I, 1-11-2001; Ord. No. 2010-Code-02, 3-10-2010; Ord.
No. 2024-Code-02, 6-27-2024)
Sec. 34-37. Penalties payable to school board.
   The penalties permitted to be paid to and received by the parking violations
bureau under this article shall be paid to the county school board for the use
of the public schools.
(Code 1982, § 12-44; Ord. No. 98-007, § 1, 6-11-1998)
Sec. 34-38. Failure to answer charges; penalties.
   (a)   Any person who has failed to respond to the parking violation bureau
within five days as specified in section
34-36(a) shall receive a written notice. Said notice shall state that if the
civil penalty is not paid within 30 days a late penalty (in addition to the
civil penalty) of $20.00 will be assessed.
   (b)   Failure to pay all penalties accessed within 60 days shall subject the
offender to a civil action in the nature of debt for the assessed penalties
plus an additional penalty of $50.00 together with the cost of the action to be
taxed by the court.
(Code 1982, § 12-44; Ord. No. 98-007, § 1, 6-11-1998; Ord. No. 00-034, § I, 1-
11-2001)
Sec. 34-39. Towing.
   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to limit the authority of the
town to move or tow vehicles that are parked in violation of any statute or
ordinance.
(Code 1982, § 12-45; Ord. No. 98-007, § 1, 6-11-1998)
Secs. 34-40--34-66. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES*
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Traffic-control devices, G.S. 20-158, 20-172.
----------
Sec. 34-67. Obedience by drivers.
   (a)   The driver of every vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic control device placed, erected or installed in accordance with the
traffic ordinances of this town, unless otherwise directed by a police officer,
or otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (b)   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective without signs being
placed to give notice thereof.
(Code 1976, § 16-17; Code 1982, § 12-42)
Sec. 34-68. Right turns on red.
   The Director of Engineering is hereby authorized to determine intersections
at which vehicular traffic facing a red light shall not make a right turn. The
intersections subject to this prohibition shall be described in Traffic
Schedule 3, Right Turns on Red.
(Code 1976, § 16-18; Code 1982, § 12-59; Ord. No. 77-35, § 2, 9-22-1977; Ord.
No. 83-9, § 1, 5-12-1983; Ord. No. 86-42, § 1, 11-13-1986; Ord. No. 2009-Code-
06, 5-14-09)
   State law reference—Vehicle control signs and signals, G.S. 20-158.
Sec. 34-69. Method of turning at intersections.
   The Director of Engineering is authorized to modify the method of turning at
intersections and determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left or u-turn, by clearly indicating such modification
or prohibition by markers, buttons or other direction signs. Said intersections
shall be described in Traffic_Schedule 4, Restricted Turns at Intersections.
Whenever such markers, buttons, or signs are placed, erected or installed, no
driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any such marker, button or
sign, and when authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
traversing, or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such indications.
(Code 1976, § 16-20; Code 1982, § 12-61; Ord. No. 87-83, § 1, 9-10-1987; Ord.
No. 90-61, 11-8-1990; Ord. No. 91-26, § 1, 6-13-1991; Ord. No. 93-07, § 1, 2-
12-1993; Ord. No. 93-24, § 1, 4-8-1993; Ord. No. 93-39, § 1, 12-9-1993; Ord.
No. 94-007, § 1, 4-14-1994; Ord. No. 94-008, § 1, 4-14-1994; Ord. No. 94-021, §
1, 8-11-1994; Ord. No. 2007-03, 2-22-2007; Ord. No. 2008-Code-07, 11-20-2008;
Ord. No. 2009-Code-03, 2-12-2009; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-70. No-parking zone markers.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no-parking zones, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
regulations in connection therewith.
(Code 1976, § 16-21; Code 1982, § 12-62)
Sec. 34-71. Avoiding signal at intersection.
   No person shall drive a vehicle upon or across public or private through
driveways, curb cuts or otherwise for the purpose of proceeding from any street
to an intersecting street with the intent of avoiding traffic signs or signals
erected or installed for vehicular traffic control.
(Code 1976, § 16-22; Code 1982, § 12-63)
Sec. 34-72. Quiet zone.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating a zone
of quiet, no person operating a motor vehicle within any such zone shall sound
the horn or other warning device of said vehicle, except in an emergency.
(Code 1976, § 16-23; Code 1982, § 12-64)
Sec. 34-73. Recreational streets.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating any
street or part thereof as a recreational street, no person shall drive a motor
vehicle upon such street, or part thereof, during the times indicated. All such
streets shall be properly designated by the town council.
(Code 1976, § 16-26; Code 1982, § 12-66; Ord. No. 77-15, § 1, 4-28-1977; Ord.
No. 93-23, § 1, 4-8-1993)
Sec. 34-74. Temporary street closings and designation of parking or no-parking
zones due to special events.
   (a)   Specific authority. The chief of police, or designee, is authorized to
temporarily close to vehicular traffic the streets specified below and to
temporarily designate "Parking" and "No Parking" zones on city streets for the
following special events. The chief shall temporarily close a street by placing
appropriate signs and banners in the roadway. The chief shall designate a "No
Parking Zone" by marking the area with temporary signs indicating "No Parking--
Tow Away Zone--Authority Cary Police Department." In the event the chief opens
some "No Parking" zones to permit parking, all meters and "No Parking" signs
shall be covered for that period of time that parking is allowed. Drivers of
vehicles that use said streets while temporarily closed or persons who park in
zones designated as "No Parking--Tow Away Zones" shall be in violation of this
section. In addition to other penalties that may be imposed, the Cary police
department, or its designee, is authorized to tow vehicles parked in "No
Parking--Tow Away Zones.."
   (1)   Lazy Daze;
   (2)   Spring Daze;
   (3)   Cary Band Day;
   (4)   July 4th Celebration at Regency Park; and
   (5)   The SAS Championship Golf Tournament.
   (b)   Lazy Daze. As to Lazy Daze, this section shall apply from 12:00 noon
on Friday through 9:00 p.m. on Saturday the scheduled weekend of the event or
the rain date(s), if necessary, to include all of the area bounded by and
including South Academy Street, East and West Chatham Street, South Harrison
Avenue, Dry Avenue, and South Walker Street. For the time period indicated, the
Chief may designate the following streets as "No Parking--Tow Away Zones." Lazy
Daze is determined to be a specially designated town sponsored event to which
the provisions of Chapter
24, section
24-18 and Chapter
6, section
6-72 apply, prohibiting animals, certain wheeled vehicles and other specified
activities.
   East side of South Harrison Avenue from West Chatham Street to Faculty
Street;
   North side of East Park Street from Walker Street to South Academy Street;
   North side of West Park Street from South Harrison Avenue to South Academy
Street;
   Both sides of South Walker Street from its intersection with East Chatham
Street to Walnut Street;
   South side of Walnut Street from Kildaire Farm Road to South Walker Street.
   (c)   Spring Daze. As to Spring Daze, this section shall apply from 6:00
p.m. on Friday through 9:00 p.m. on Saturday the scheduled weekend of the
event, or the rain date(s), if necessary, to include all of Bond Park, the
streets and parking lots therein and all areas bounded by High House Road. For
the time period indicated, the chief may designate the following streets as "No
Parking--Tow Away Zones." Spring Daze is determined to be a specially
designated town sponsored event to which the provisions of chapter
24, section
24-18 and chapter
6, section
6-72 apply, prohibiting animals, certain wheeled vehicles and other specified
activities.
   Bond Park Drive;
   Metro Park Drive;
   Maury O'Dell Place;
   Charlie Henderson Way.
   (d)   Cary Band Day. As to Cary Band Day, this section shall apply from 6:00
a.m. through 11:59 p.m. on the scheduled day of the event, or the rain date, if
necessary, to:
   Walnut Street from S.E. Maynard Road to Cary Towne Boulevard. This section
of Walnut Street is to be closed to allow a parking area for buses and an
assembly area for bands; and
   E. Chatham Street to S. Academy St. to Walnut St., ending at the Cary High
School, to permit a parade. These roads will be closed for the parade, and
opened promptly thereafter.
   (e)   July 4th Celebration at Regency Park. As to July 4th Celebration at
Regency Park, this section shall apply from 12:01 a.m. through 11:30 p.m. on
July 4, to provide certain "No Parking--Tow Away Zones." July 4th Celebration
at Regency Park is determined to be a specially designated town sponsored event
to which the provisions of chapter
24, section
24-18 and chapter
6, section
6-72 apply.
   Both sides of Regency Parkway from the intersection of Tryon Road to the
dead-end at 11000 Regency Parkway;
   Both sides of Elerlee Drive from the intersection of Regency Parkway to
Penny Road;
   Both sides of Edinburgh Drive from U.S. 64 to the intersection of Glasgow
Road;
   Both sides of Queensferry Road from the intersection of Rutherglen Drive to
the intersection of Edinburgh Drive.
   (e)   SAS Championship Golf Tournament As to the SAS Championship Golf
Tournament, this section shall apply from 9:00 a.m. through 7:00 p.m. on the
scheduled days of the event, or the rain date, if necessary, to establish "No
Parking--Tow Away Zones" on:
   Both sides of Summerlakes Drive from High House Road to Crabtree Crossing;
and
   On Crabtree Crossing from the Morrisville city limits to Cary Parkway; and
   On Prestonwood Parkway from High House Road to the Preston Club House; and
   On Bridlecreek Dr. from Prestonwood Dr. to Creek Park Drive.
   (f)   Additional authority. The chief of police, or designee, is authorized
to temporarily close to vehicular traffic any street or streets within the town
when the chief deems it necessary to meet the particular needs of a special
event and to temporarily alter vehicular parking areas, by permitting parking
on streets where parking is normally prohibited, or prohibiting parking on
streets or in areas where parking is normally permitted. The authority granted
herein is subject to the following:
   (1)   The special event must be sanctioned and properly permitted by the
town;
   (2)   The area and boundaries of any street closing will consist of only
those areas directly related to the special event and shall include any public
street, sidewalk, or publicly owned area that is within or constitutes the
boundary of that event;
   (3)   No street, or portion thereof, may be closed for more than 12 hours
without the approval of town council;
   (4)   The fire chief shall be notified in advance of all street closings;
   (5)   Alteration of normal parking in areas affected by the special event
will only be allowed for the 12 hours immediately prior to the event and during
the event;
   (6)   The procedures for designating "closed" streets and "No Parking Zones"
provided in subsection (a) shall apply, as shall the enforcement provisions.
(Code 1976, § 16-27; Code 1982, § 12-67; Ord. No. 01-003, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 34-75. Traffic control signal preemption.
   (a)   The fire chief, police chief and director of transportation and
facilities are authorized to select such traffic signal controlled
intersections they concurrently deem advisable for installation of emergency
vehicle traffic signal preemption.
   (b)   If such traffic signals are located at the intersections of town
streets, and funds are approved, installation shall proceed on the concurrently
agreed upon direction(s).
   (c)   If such traffic signals are located at the intersection of one or more
state highways, and funds are approved, the director of transportation and
facilities shall submit the concurrent preemption installation request, and a
copy of the ordinance from which this article is derived, to the department of
transportation and facilities for its approval.
   (d)   If a traffic study of prospective commercial, residential, or
industrial development determines that the developer shall be required to
provide full or partial funding for traffic signals, and if traffic signal
preemption is deemed advisable by subsection (a), such funding shall include
the equipment and installation costs of the traffic signal preemption system
approved by the town.
(Code 1982, § 12-68; Ord. No. 00-024, 9-14-2000; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-
2019)
Secs. 34-76--34-93. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING*
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Stopping and parking, G.S. 20-161 et seq.; parking
in municipalities, G.S. 160A-301.
----------
Sec. 34-94. Obstructing traffic generally.
   No person shall stand a vehicle on any street as to interrupt, or interfere
with, the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(Code 1976, § 16-45; Code 1982, § 12-79)
Sec. 34-95. Warning devices on service vehicles.
   No person shall permit or cause to permit any construction, service or
maintenance vehicles to stand or be parked within the right-of-way of public
roads and streets of the town in such a manner as to obstruct, impede or
interfere with the normal traffic use on said streets: Provided, that such
vehicles may be temporarily used outside of the rights-of-way or on a necessary
portion thereof, facing in the same direction as the flow of traffic; provided
further, that warning signs indicating "Men Working," together with red flags
thereon, shall be placed not less than 200 feet in the front and rear of such
vehicle or equipment. Such red flags shall be displayed on said signs from
sunup to sundown, and after sundown red flares or lanterns shall be displayed
adjacent to the warning signs. These warning signs and signals shall be
displayed as long as such vehicle is being so used.
(Code 1976, § 16-46; Code 1982, § 12-81)
Sec. 34-96. Parallel parking.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this chapter, and where the street is not
marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to the
curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Code 1976, § 16-49; Code 1982, § 12-82)
Sec. 34-97. Reserved parking spaces.
   Those streets or portions of streets where signs are placed, or marked off
in any way to designate a specific purpose, shall be reserved and no automobile
or other vehicle except those for which the space has been designated shall
park therein.
(Code 1976, § 16-47; Code 1982, § 12-83)
Sec. 34-98. Vehicles backed up to curb.
   No vehicle shall remain backed up to the curb, except when actually loading
or unloading.
(Code 1976, § 16-50; Code 1982, § 12-84)
Sec. 34-99. Stopping with left side to curb.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district, except that on one-way streets vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(Code 1976, § 16-51; Code 1982, § 12-85)
Sec. 34-100. Parking within lines.
   On any place which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces,
cars shall be parked between said lines.
(Code 1976, § 16-52; Code 1982, § 12-86)
Sec. 34-101. Illegal parking.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purposes of:
   (1)   Displaying it for sale.
   (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
   (3)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when such storage
is not incident to the bona fide use and operation of such automobile or other
vehicles.
   (4)   Storage of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from
one vehicle to another.
(Code 1976, § 16-53; Code 1982, § 12-87)
Sec. 34-102. Advertising.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle on any street for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(Code 1976, § 16-54; Code 1982, § 12-88)
Sec. 34-103. Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in certain places.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, attended or unattended,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
   (1)   On the sidewalk.
   (2)   Within an intersection or in front of a private driveway.
   (3)   On a crosswalk.
   (4)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway.
   (5)   On either side of any street approaching a railroad underpass, or
overhead bridge, within 50 feet in any direction of the outer edge of such
underpass or overhead bridge.
   (6)   On either side of any street approaching a grade crossing within 50
feet of the closest rail; provided, that where existing permanent structures
are located along the street and closer than 50 feet, parking may be permitted
in front of such structures, unless otherwise prohibited if the said parking
does not interfere with the view in either direction of an approaching
locomotive or train.
   (7)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
   (8)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure.
   (9)   Within 15 feet in either direction of the entrance to a hotel,
theater, hospital, sanitarium, or any public building.
   (10)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street.
   (11)   Within 25 feet from the intersection of curblines or if none, then
within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection of
highways or streets.
   (12)   Upon any area designated as a fire lane in any public vehicular area,
street, highway or roadway or in any mail parking lot or shopping center,
unless the parking is temporary for the purpose of loading or unloading
supplies or merchandise and the vehicle is not left unattended.
   (13)   In any area other than those designated by lines indicating parking
spaces in town-owned parking lots.
   (14)   Within 15 feet in either direction of a mailbox located adjacent to
any street or highway, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., every day
except Sundays and federal holidays.
   (15)   On any public street or highway which has been clearly marked with
travel lanes, unless the travel lane is of sufficient width to allow another
vehicle of any size to pass safely in the same travel lane without causing it
to cross into another travel lane.
   (16)   In a space designated in conformance with G.S. 20-37.6(d) for
handicapped or visually impaired persons, when the vehicle does not display the
distinguishing license plate or placard as required by state statute.
   (17)   In a manner so as to obstruct a curb ramp or curb cut for handicapped
persons, as provided for by the state building code or as designated in G.S.
136-14.14.
   (18)   In any area upon a public street which has been clearly marked as a
bicycle travel lane, except for Bridle Creek Drive and Upchurch Meadow between
the hours of 7 p.m. and 7 a.m.
(Code 1976, § 16-55; Code 1982, § 12-89; Ord. No. 87-21, § 2, 6-11-1987; Ord.
No. 89-37, § 1, 6-8-1989; Ord. No. 91-41, § 1, 10-10-1991; Ord. No. 93-38, § 1,
12-9-1993; Ord. No. 95-004, § 1, 1-12-1995; Ord. No. 01-017, § 1, 9-13-2001;
Ord. No. 03-005, § 1, 5-8-2003)
   State law reference—Similar provisions, G.S. 20-162.
Sec. 34-104. Fifteen-minute parking zones designated.
   (a)   The streets or portion of streets described in Traffic_Schedule 5,
Fifteen-Minute Parking Zones, are hereby designated as fifteen-minute parking
zones.
   (b)   No person shall park or leave unattended any vehicle, nor stop any
vehicle which he is operating, in any fifteen-minute parking zone for a period
longer than 15 minutes. The changing of the position of a vehicle from one
point to another point within the same block shall be deemed as one continuous
parking period.
   (c)   Any street or portion of a street designated as a fifteen-minute
parking zone shall be plainly marked with a sign or signs to indicate that no
vehicle may be parked within such area or along said street or portion of a
street designated by said sign or signs for a period longer than 15 minutes at
any time, unless otherwise provided.
(Code 1976, § 16-65; Code 1982, § 12-90; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-105. One-hour parking zones generally.
   (a)   The streets or portions of streets described in Traffic_Schedule 6,
One-Hour Parking Zones, are hereby designated as one-hour parking zones.
   (b)   Parking in a one-hour parking zone shall be limited to one hour
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day except Sundays and
public holidays. The changing of the position of a vehicle from one point
directly to another point within the same block shall be deemed as one
continuous parking period.
   (c)   No person shall park or leave unattended any vehicle, or stop any
vehicle which he is operating, for a period longer than one hour in a one-hour
parking zone during the times limited. Unless specifically limited herein, the
one-hour parking limitation applies at all times.
   (d)   Each street or portion of a street designated as a one-hour parking
zone shall be plainly marked by a sign or signs to indicate that no motor
vehicle may be parked for a period of longer than one hour within the area
designated during the times indicated by such sign or signs.
(Code 1976, § 16-67; Code 1982, § 12-92; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-106. Two-hour parking zone.
   (a)   The streets or portions of streets described in Traffic_Schedule 7,
Two-Hour Parking Zones, are hereby designated as two-hour parking zones.
   (b)   When signs are placed, erected or installed in any place, giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any
time between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day, except Sundays
and public holidays, upon any such place. The changing of the position of a
vehicle from one point directly to another point, within the same block, shall
be deemed one continuous parking period.
(Code 1976, § 16-68; Code 1982, § 12-93; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-107. Parking prohibited in designated places--At all times.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed, giving notice thereof, or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of such signs, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets or portions of streets described in
Traffic_Schedule 8, Prohibited Parking.
(Code 1976, § 16-69; Code 1982, § 12-94; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-108. Same--During certain hours.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed in any place giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m., unless other hours are designated, upon any of the places described in
Traffic_Schedule 9, Prohibited Parking - Certain Hours. Provided, that this
section shall not apply to automobiles or other vehicles parked on said places
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m., when the owners thereof are at
work in the building, on the premises, in front of or near said automobiles or
other vehicles which are parked.
(Code 1976, § 16-70; Code 1982, § 12-95; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-109. Lights on parked vehicles.
   The displaying of lights upon a vehicle, when lawfully parked at night upon
a street in accordance with this chapter, shall not be required when there is
sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 200 feet upon such
street.
(Code 1976, § 16-38; Code 1982, § 12-96)
   State law reference—Authority for above section, G.S. 20-134.
Sec. 34-110. Stop before entering certain street intersections.
   Those intersections where stop signs are erected are hereby declared to be
stop intersections when entered from the streets first named, and when stop
signs are placed, erected or installed at such intersections every driver of a
vehicle shall stop in obedience to such signs before entering the intersection,
and shall not proceed into or across the through street until he has first
determined that no conflict with traffic will be involved.
(Code 1976, § 16-29; Code 1982, § 12-97; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-111. Stop streets designated.
   (a)   The Director of Engineering is authorized to determine which streets
are stop streets. Said streets shall be described in Traffic_Schedule 10, Stop
Streets.
   (b)   As used herein, "stop street" shall mean any street so designated at
its intersection with the streets hereinafter designated.
   (c)   Any person operating any vehicle, before proceeding along or from any
stop street into the intersection of the stop street with the intersecting
streets, shall stop. Traffic over the intersecting street and through such
intersection with said stop street shall have the right-of-way.
(Code 1976, § 16-71; Code 1982, § 12-98; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-112. Parking of oversized vehicles and trailers prohibited.
   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle or trailer of
80 inches or more in width or 30 feet or more in length on the streets within
the corporate limits of the town at any time except for the duration of the
following activities:
   (1)   When actively engaged in loading or unloading;
   (2)   Temporary parking for emergency services to a vehicle or trailer to
repair a mechanical breakdown;
   (3)   Temporary parking at a construction site during the period of active
construction.
Provided, that this section shall not apply to any mass transit buses or to
school buses, when the school buses are parked in conformity with permits
issued by the police department.
   (b)   Any violator who has received a notice of violation under this section
may answer such charge before the traffic violation bureau by voluntarily
paying a civil penalty of $10.00.
(Code 1982, § 12-100; Ord. No. 84-2, § 1, 3-8-1984)
Sec. 34-113. Parks and recreation facilities; unauthorized parking.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to park on any roadway or in any
designated parking space within a town park or recreation facility except for
specific use of the park or facility. Parking at all town parks and recreation
facilities shall be for parks and recreation patrons only. Violation of this
section shall be a misdemeanor and vehicles in violation will be issued a
citation and/or may be towed at vehicle owner's expense.
(Code 1982, § 12-101; Ord. No. 89-70, § 1, 9-14-1989)
Sec. 34-114. Town facilities; unauthorized parking.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to park on any roadway or designated
parking space of a town government facility except for the purpose of visiting
and/or conducting business at the facility during the hours of 8:00 a.m.
through 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. Violation of this section shall be a
misdemeanor and vehicles in violation will be issued a citation and/or may be
towed at vehicle owner's expense.
(Code 1982, § 12-103; Ord. No. 89-70, § 2, 9-14-1989)
Secs. 34-115--34-141. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY*
----------
   *State law reference—Operation of vehicles and rules of the road, G.S. 20-
138.1 et seq.
----------
Sec. 34-142. Vehicles emerging from alley or driveway.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or into the
sidewalk areas extending across any alleyway.
(Code 1976, § 16-35; Code 1982, § 12-111)
   State law reference—Yielding on entering roads from driveways, buildings,
etc., G.S. 20-156.
Sec. 34-143. Vehicles moving from parked positions.
   Vehicles moving from parked positions shall move out in the direction
headed, or if they are parked at any angle with the curb they shall back out on
that angle until they have cleared the other vehicles and shall then proceed in
the direction they are most nearly headed.
(Code 1976, § 16-39; Code 1982, § 12-112)
Sec. 34-144. Turning around.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
in the business district.
(Code 1976, § 16-33; Code 1982, § 12-114)
Sec. 34-145. Backing.
   No driver shall back a vehicle into any intersection, or over a crosswalk,
and shall not in any event, or at any place, back a vehicle unless such
movement can be made in safety and he shall have given ample warning to those
who may be behind by hand and horn or other signal.
(Code 1976, § 16-34; Code 1982, § 12-115)
Sec. 34-146. Yield right-of-way signs.
   (a)   The Director of Engineering is authorized to designate main-traveled
or through streets by erecting at the entrance thereto from intersecting
streets signs notifying drivers of vehicles to yield the right-of-way to
drivers of vehicles approaching the intersection on the main-traveled or
through street. The streets on which the traffic shall yield the right-of-way
shall be described in Traffic_Schedule 11, Yield Signs. Whenever such yield
right-of-way signs have been so erected, the driver of any vehicle entering the
main-traveled or through street shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in
movement on the main-traveled or through street which is approaching so as to
arrive at the intersection at approximately the same time as the vehicle
entering the main-traveled or through street.
(Code 1976, § 16-72; Code 1982, § 12-117; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
   State law reference—Yield right-of-way signs, G.S. 20-158.1
Sec. 34-147. Turning at channelized intersections.
   The Director of Engineering is authorized to mark town-maintained
intersections for channelization. The Director of Engineering is authorized to
mark such state roadways as approved by the North Carolina Department of
Transportation. Intersections so marked shall be described in Traffic_Schedule
12, Channelized Intersections. Markings on any roadway may be altered or
eliminated per authorized procedure as safety and construction concerns may
dictate.
(Code 1976, § 16-32; Code 1982, § 12-118; Ord. No. 88-10, § 1, 7-14-1988; Ord.
No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
   State law reference—Turning at intersections, G.S. 20-153.
Sec. 34-148. Commercial vehicles on certain streets.
   No person shall operate any commercial vehicle exceeding one-half ton
capacity at any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets described in
Traffic_Schedule 13, Commercial Vehicles Prohibited, except that such vehicles
may be operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or picking up materials
or merchandise and then only by entering such street at the intersection
nearest the destination of the vehicle and proceeding thereon no farther than
the nearest intersection thereafter.
(Code 1976, § 16-37; Code 1982, § 12-119; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-149. Speed limit on through highways and state maintained streets.
   (a)   A person may operate a vehicle on any street of the town designated as
a through highway or state maintained street, at a rate of speed posted thereon
as provided by ordinances of the town with concurring regulations of the state
department of transportation, where applicable; provided, that at no time shall
the speed be greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then
existing or to conform with the state speed laws.
   (b)   No person shall operate a vehicle at a greater rate of speed than that
specified on those portions of through highways and state maintained streets
described in Traffic_Schedule 14, Speed Limits.
(Code 1976, § 16-40; Code 1982, § 12-120; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
   State law reference—Speed restrictions, G.S. 20-141.
Sec. 34-150. Speed limit on nonhighway streets.
   No person shall operate a vehicle on a nonhighway system street in a
residential district in excess of 25 miles per hour.
(Code 1976, § 16-41; Code 1982, § 12-121; Ord. No. 90-56, § 1, 11-8-1990; Ord.
No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-09)
Sec. 34-151. Speed limits in school zones.
   Speed limits for school zones are established in Traffic_Schedule 15, Speed
Limits in School Zones. The times for each school_speed_zone will be in effect,
at a minimum, from 30 minutes before to 30 minutes after school begins and ends
on school days only.
   School_speed_zones will be designated by signs giving notice of the school
zone, the authorized speed limit, and the days and hours when the lower limit
is effective, or by signs giving notice of the school_zone, the authorized
speed limit and which indicate the days and hours the lower limit is effective
by an electronic flasher operated with a time clock. The speed limit in a
school_zone shall be typically no more than 10 miles per hour less than the
normally posted speed limit for that segment of roadway, but not less than a
speed limit of 25 miles per hour.
(Code 1982, § 12-123; Ord. No. 90-59, § 1, 11-8-1990; Ord. No. 96-014, 11-14-
1996; Ord. No. 2007-09, 7-26-2007; Ord. No. 2009-Code-06, 5-14-2009; Ord. No.
2009-Code-09, 8-13-2009; Ord. No. 2011-Code-05, 6-30-2011)
   State law reference—Speed limits in school zones, G.S. 20-141.1.
Sec. 34-152. Limitations on privilege of overtaking and passing--Generally.
   (a)   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive to the left side of the center
line of a street or highway upon the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
street or highway where such center line has been placed by the town and is
visible.
   (b)   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another on any
portion of the street or highway which is marked by signs, markers or markings
placed by the town stating or clearly indicating that passing should not be
attempted.
(Code 1982, § 12-124; Ord. No. 93-27, § 1, 4-8-1993)
Sec. 34-153. Same--On specified streets.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction of travel on any portion of West Chatham
Street from its intersection with Old Apex Road to its intersection with Cary
Parkway, except for the following conditions:
   (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle
proceeding in the same direction when the roadway has been marked for two or
more lanes of moving vehicles which are not occupied by parked vehicles; and
   (2)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle when the vehicle overtaken is in a lane designated for left
turns.
(Code 1982, § 12-125; Ord. No. 93-28, § 1, 4-8-1993)
Secs. 34-154--34-174. Reserved.
ARTICLE VI. MOVEMENT OF HEAVY VEHICLES OR ARTICLES*
----------
   *State law reference—Size, weight, construction and equipment of vehicles,
G.S. 20-115 et seq.
----------
Sec. 34-175. Special permits
   The town manager or designee shall have full authority to issue permits
pursuant to G.S. 20-119, and no permit shall be issued by him unless, in his
judgment, it is deemed advisable and not likely that damage to public or
private property will occur therefrom.
(Code 1976, § 14-44; Code 1982, § 12-139)
Sec. 34-176. Change of route.
   If some unforeseen difficulty should prevent the following of the exact
route described in the permit for the removal of any particular machine or
piece of machinery, application shall be made to the town manager before
entering upon any part of the new route and the permit corrected to show the
description of such route.
(Code 1976, § 14-45; Code 1982, § 12-140)
Secs. 34-177--34-205. Reserved.
ARTICLE VII-A. ABANDONED VEHICLES
----------
   *State law reference(s)--Removal and disposal of junked and abandoned motor
vehicles, G.S. 160A-303.
----------
Sec. 34-206. Purpose.
   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-303, the town is authorized to regulate, prohibit, and
remove abandoned vehicles on the public streets or on public or private
property within the town. Pursuant to that authority, the town finds that such
a regulation, prohibition, and removal is necessary and desirable to protect
and promote the public interest.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-207. Administration.
   The Town Manager or their designees shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this article. The town may contract with
private tow truck operators or towing businesses to tow, store, and dispose of
vehicles.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-208. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Abandoned motor vehicle or abandoned vehicle shall mean a motor vehicle
which:
   (1)   Has been left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking; or
   (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than 24
hours without the consent of the town; or
   (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner or
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than two hours; or
   (4)   Is left on any public street or highway for longer than seven days
without valid registration or license plate.
   Enforcement officer shall mean any police officer, code enforcement officer,
inspector, or other town employee designated by the Town Manager to carry out
the duties described in this article.
   Hearing officer shall mean (1) the town employee or employees designated by
the Town Manager for hearings taking place prior to a vehicle being towed
pursuant to this article and (2) a county magistrate for hearings taking place
after a vehicle has been towed pursuant to this article.
   Motor vehicle or vehicle shall mean and include all machines designed or
intended to travel over land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to
any self-propelled vehicle.
   Tow, in any of its forms, shall mean removing a vehicle by any means,
including towing and storing the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-209. Determination of abandoned vehicles.
   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-303, in determining whether a motor vehicle
constitutes an abandoned vehicle, enforcement officers shall take into
consideration, but not be limited to, the terms defined in section
34-208.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-210. Administrative search and inspection warrants.
   An enforcement officer is authorized to secure an administrative search and
inspection warrant, as provided by G.S. 15-27.2, in order to conduct any
necessary inspection of the premises on which an abandoned vehicle may be
located and to obtain evidence whether there is any violation of any provisions
of this article.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-211. Abandoned vehicles unlawful; removal authorized.
   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle to abandon the motor vehicle on public or private
property within the town's municipal boundaries.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-212. Towing authorized.
   (a)   Towing authorized. Upon investigation, the enforcement officer may
determine and declare that a motor vehicle is abandoned and order the vehicle
removed from the property.
   (b)   Owner responsible for removal costs. If an abandoned vehicle is
removed from property by or at the direction of the town, the owner shall pay
all reasonable costs incidental to the removal and storage of such vehicle and
incidental to locating the owner thereof. In situations where the town removes
an abandoned vehicle, the cost for removal and storage of such vehicle and
costs incidental to locating the owner thereof, if not paid, will become a lien
on the motor vehicle.
   (c)   Towing from private property. An abandoned vehicle shall not be
removed from private property without the written request of the owner, lessee,
or occupant of the premises unless the Town Council or a duly authorized town
official or employee has declared it to be a health or safety hazard. The town
may require any person requesting the removal of an abandoned motor vehicle
from private property to indemnify the town against any loss, expense, or
liability incurred because of the removal, storage, or sale thereof. The town
assumes no responsibility for the removal of abandoned vehicles from private
property.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-213. Notice of removal of vehicle; pre-towing notice requirements.
   (a)   Pre-towing notice required. Any abandoned vehicle in violation of this
article may be removed by or under the direction of an enforcement officer.
Such motor vehicles shall be towed after notice is provided by posting a
warning notice on the vehicle or on the property on which the vehicle is
located. If placed on the vehicle, such notice shall be affixed to the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle. If placed on the
property, such notice shall be affixed in a conspicuous place reasonably
positioned to gain the attention of the property owner. The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed on a specified date, no sooner than seven days
after the notice is affixed to the vehicle, unless the vehicle is brought into
compliance by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time. The notice shall
also state the procedure the owner must follow to request a hearing before the
towing occurs.
   (b)   Pre-towing notice not required. The requirement that notice be affixed
to any vehicle at least seven days prior to removal may be omitted in those
circumstances where:
      (1)   An abandoned motor vehicle has a valid registration plate and
registration or if the last registered owner is known to the town, provided
post-towing notice is thereafter given as set forth in section
34-214;
      (2)   An authorizing official finds that an abandoned motor vehicle on
public streets impedes the flow of traffic or otherwise jeopardizes the public
welfare so that immediate removal is necessary.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-214. Notice of removal of vehicle; post-towing notice requirements.
   (a)   Whenever a vehicle with a valid registration plate or vehicle
identification number is towed hereunder, the authorizing person shall ensure
the last known address of the vehicle owner is notified of the following:
      (1)   A description of the vehicle;
      (2)   The place from which the vehicle may be released;
      (3)   The violation;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to have the vehicle returned;
and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the towing.
   (b)   If the vehicle has a state registration plate or registration, notice
shall be given to the owner within 24 hours; if the vehicle is not registered
in this state, notice shall be given to the owner within 72 hours. This notice
shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Whether or not the owner is reached
by telephone, notice shall be mailed to their last known address unless the
owner or owner’s agent waives this notice in writing.
   (c)   Whenever a vehicle with neither a valid registration plate nor vehicle
identification number is towed as provided hereunder, the authorizing person
shall make a reasonable effort to determine the last-known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify them of the information listed in subsection
34-214(a).
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-215. Hearing.
   The owner or any other person entitled to claim possession of the vehicle
that has been towed due to it being determined to be abandoned pursuant to this
article may request a hearing on the sole issue of whether or not the town can
demonstrate that it possessed probable cause to tow the motor vehicle. Pursuant
to G.S. ch. 20, art. 7A, the request for a hearing shall be filed with the
magistrate in the county where the vehicle was towed within 72 hours of the
owner’s receipt of notice and the process shall proceed as outlined in G.S. ch.
20, art. 7A.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-216. Sale and disposition of vehicle.
   (a)   Any abandoned motor vehicle which is not claimed by the owner or other
party entitled to possession may be disposed of by the tower having custody of
the vehicle. Disposition of such a vehicle shall be carried out in accordance
with G.S. ch. 44A, art. 1.
   (b)   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-303(f), no person shall be held to answer in any
civil or criminal action to any owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of any abandoned, lost, or stolen motor vehicle for disposing of the
vehicle as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-217. Disposition of proceeds of sale.
   The proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle shall be applied as
set forth in G.S. 44A-5.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-218. Exceptions.
   Nothing in this article shall apply to any motor vehicle in an enclosed
building; on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; located in a bona fide "auto graveyard" or "junkyard" as defined in
G.S. 136-143 in accordance with the "Junkyard Control Act" (G.S. 136-141 et
seq.); or in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-219. Civil penalty.
   (a)   Civil penalty. Any violation of this article shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50.00. No penalty shall be
imposed if the offender removes the motor vehicle from the property within
seven days of the date the pre-towing notice has been given by the town. If the
offender does not remove the motor vehicle from the property within seven days
of the pre-towing notice, the penalty may be imposed for each day the vehicle
was permitted to remain on the property, commencing with the date the pre-
towing notice was received and terminating on the date of removal of the motor
vehicle, each day's violation constituting a separate offense. Violation of
this article shall not be prosecuted as a misdemeanor.
   (b)   Citation. The offender shall be issued a written citation by delivery
in person or mailed by certified or registered mail. The civil penalty must be
paid within 72 hours of receipt of written citation by the offender.
   (c)   Recovery of penalty. If the offender does not pay the penalty within
the prescribed period of time, the penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action initiated by the Town Attorney, in consultation with the Town
Manager, in which the civil penalty shall be in the nature of debt.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-220. Article cumulative.
   Procedures set forth in this article shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may exist under law or ordinance to the abatement of public
nuisances.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
ARTICLE VII-B. JUNKED VEHICLES
Sec. 34-221. Purpose.
   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-303.2, the town is authorized to regulate, prohibit,
and remove junked vehicles on the public streets or on public or private
property within the town. Pursuant to that authority, the town finds that such
regulation, prohibition, and removal is necessary and desirable to protect the
public interest and to promote or enhance community, neighborhood, or area
appearance.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-222. Administration.
   The Town Manager or their designees shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this article. The town may contract with
private tow truck operators or towing businesses to tow, store, and dispose of
vehicles.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-223. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Enforcement officer shall mean any police officer, code enforcement officer,
inspector, or other town employee designated by the Town Manager to carry out
the duties described in this article.
   Hearing officer shall mean (1) the town employee or employees designated by
the Town Manager for hearings taking place prior to a vehicle being towed
pursuant to this article and (2) a county magistrate for hearings taking place
after a vehicle has been towed pursuant to this article.
   Junked motor vehicle or junked vehicle shall mean a motor vehicle that does
not display a current license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than
$500.00.
   Motor vehicle or vehicle shall mean and include all machines designed or
intended to travel over land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to
any self-propelled vehicle.
   Tow, in any of its forms, shall mean removing a vehicle by any means,
including towing and storing the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-224. Determination of junked vehicles.
   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-303.2, in determining whether a motor vehicle
constitutes a junked vehicle, enforcement officers shall take into
consideration, but not be limited to, the terms defined in section 34-223.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-225. Administrative search and inspection warrants.
   An enforcement officer is authorized to secure an administrative search and
inspection warrant, as provided by G.S. 15-27.2, in order to conduct any
necessary inspection of the premises on which a junked vehicle may be located
and to obtain evidence whether there is any violation of any provisions of this
article.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-226. Junked vehicles unlawful; removal authorized.
   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a junked motor vehicle or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow a junked motor vehicle to remain on the property.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-227. Towing authorized.
   (a)   Towing authorized. Upon investigation, the enforcement officer may
determine and declare that a motor vehicle is junked and order the vehicle
removed from the property.
   (b)   Owner responsible for removal costs. If a junked vehicle is removed
from property by or at the direction of the town, the owner shall pay all
reasonable costs incidental to the removal and storage of such vehicle and
incidental to locating the owner thereof. In situations where the town removes
a junked vehicle, the cost for removal and storage of such vehicle and costs
incidental to the locating the owner thereof, if not paid, will become a lien
on the motor vehicle.
   (c)   Towing from private property. A junked vehicle shall not be removed
from private property without the written request of the owner, lessee, or
occupant of the premises unless the Town Manager or their designee finds in
writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the
burdens imposed on the private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a
balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding
gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood, or area
appearance. The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
   (d)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of a junked
motor vehicle from private property to indemnify the town against any loss,
expense, or liability incurred because of the removal, storage, or sale
thereof. The town assumes no responsibility for the removal of junked vehicles
from private property.
   (e)   Consensual removal of vehicles. If a vehicle is declared to be a
junked vehicle, the vehicle owner may, at the discretion of the town, have the
option to have the town remove the vehicle under the following terms:
      (1)   The owner agrees to pay or otherwise indemnify the town for any
expenses incurred by reason of its removal, storage, or sale thereof; or
      (2)   The owner signs a consent form authorizing the town to remove the
vehicle and the owner takes the actions necessary to transfer the vehicle title
to the town or town's designee. Should an owner comply with this subsection
34-227(e), the town shall bear the costs to remove the vehicle.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-228. Notice of removal of vehicle; pre-towing notice requirements.
   (a)   Pre-towing notice required. Any junked vehicle in violation of this
article may be removed by or under the direction of an enforcement officer.
Such motor vehicles shall be towed after notice is provided by posting a
warning notice on the vehicle or on the property on which the vehicle is
located. If placed on the vehicle, such notice shall be affixed to the
windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle. If placed on the
property, such notice shall be affixed in a conspicuous place reasonably
positioned to gain the attention of the property owner. The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed on a specified date, no sooner than seven days
after the notice is affixed to the vehicle, unless the vehicle is brought into
compliance by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time. The notice shall
also state the procedure the owner must follow to request a hearing before the
towing occurs.
   (b)   Pre-towing notice not required. The requirement that notice be affixed
to any vehicle at least seven days prior to removal may be omitted in those
circumstances where:
      (1)   A junked motor vehicle has a valid registration plate and
registration or, if the last registered owner is known to the town, provided
post-towing notice is thereafter given as set forth in section
34-229;
      (2)   An authorizing official finds that a junked motor vehicle on public
streets impedes the flow of traffic or otherwise jeopardizes the public welfare
so that immediate removal is necessary.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-229. Notice of removal of vehicle; post-towing notice requirements.
   (a)   Whenever a vehicle with a valid registration plate or vehicle
identification number is towed hereunder, the authorizing person shall ensure
the last known address of the vehicle owner is notified of the following:
      (1)   A description of the vehicle;
      (2)   The place from which the vehicle may be released;
      (3)   The violation;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to have the vehicle returned;
and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the towing.
   (b)   If the vehicle has a state registration plate or registration, notice
shall be given to the owner within 24 hours; if the vehicle is not registered
in this state, notice shall be given to the owner within 72 hours. This notice
shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Whether or not the owner is reached
by telephone, notice shall be mailed to their last known address unless the
owner or owner’s agent waives this notice in writing.
   (c)   Whenever a vehicle with neither a valid registration plate or vehicle
identification number is towed as provided hereunder, the authorizing person
shall make a reasonable effort to determine the last-known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify them of the information listed in subsection
34-229(a).
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-230. Hearing.
   The owner or any other person entitled to claim possession of a vehicle
towed due to having been determined to be junked pursuant to this article may
request a hearing on the sole issue of whether or not the town can demonstrate
that it possessed probable cause to tow the motor vehicle. Pursuant to G.S. ch.
20, art. 7A, the request for a hearing shall be filed with the magistrate in
the county where the vehicle was towed within 72 hours of the owner’s receipt
of notice and the process shall proceed as outlined in G.S. ch. 20, art. 7A.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-231. Sale and disposition of vehicle.
   (a)   Any junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the owner or other
party entitled to possession may be disposed of by the tower having custody of
the vehicle. Disposition of such a vehicle shall be carried out in accordance
with G.S. ch. 44A, art. 1.
   (b)   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-303.2(a4), any person who removes a vehicle
pursuant to this section shall not be held liable for damages for the removal
of the vehicle to the owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle removed; however, any person who intentionally or
negligently damages a vehicle in the removal of such vehicle, or intentionally
or negligently inflicts injury upon any person in the removal of such vehicle,
may be held liable for damages.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-232. Disposition of proceeds of sale.
   The proceeds of the sale of a junked motor vehicle shall be applied as set
forth in G.S. 44A-5.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-233. Exceptions.
   Nothing in this article shall apply to any motor vehicle in an enclosed
building; on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; located in a bona fide "auto graveyard" or "junkyard" as defined in
G.S. 136-143 in accordance with the "Junkyard Control Act" (G.S. 136-141 et
seq.); or in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-234. Civil penalty.
   (a)   Civil penalty. Any violation of this article shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50.00. No penalty shall be
imposed if the offender removes the motor vehicle from the property within
seven days of the date the pre-towing notice has been given by the town. If the
offender does not remove the motor vehicle from the property within seven days
of the pre-towing notice, the penalty may be imposed for each day the vehicle
was permitted to remain on the property, commencing with the date the pre-
towing notice was received and terminating on the date of removal of the motor
vehicle, each day's violation constituting a separate offense. Violation of
this article shall not be prosecuted as a misdemeanor.
   (b)   Citation. The offender shall be issued a written citation by delivery
in person or mailed by certified or registered mail. The civil penalty must be
paid within 72 hours of receipt of written citation by the offender.
   (c)   Recovery of penalty. If the offender does not pay the penalty with the
prescribed period of time, the penalty may be recovered by the town in a civil
action initiated by the Town Attorney, in consultation with the Town Manager,
in which the civil penalty shall be in the nature of debt.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Sec. 34-235. Article cumulative.
   Procedures set forth in this article shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may exist under law or ordinance to the abatement of public
nuisances.
(Ord. No. 2024-Code-04, 12-12-2024)
Secs. 34-236—34-240. Reserved.
ARTICLE VIII. BICYCLES AND MOTORCYCLES
Sec. 34-241. Application of traffic laws to bicycles.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
and the traffic provisions of this Code applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to those provisions of ordinances which by their nature are
inapplicable.
(Code 1976, § 16-95; Code 1982, § 12-176)
Sec. 34-242. Obedience to traffic control devices.
   (a)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signs and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (b)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that a turning
movement is restricted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where that person dismounts from the bicycle
to make the turn, in which event such person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(Code 1976, § 16-96; Code 1982, § 12-177)
Sec. 34-243. Manner of riding bicycle.
   (a)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (b)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Code 1976, § 16-97; Code 1982, § 12-178)
Sec. 34-244. Riding abreast on roadways.
   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two abreast
except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles or unless participating in a town sponsored or sanctioned biking
event.
(Code 1976, § 16-98; Code 1982, § 12-179; Ord. No. 00-001, § 1, 3-8-2001)
Sec. 34-245. Emerging from alley or driveway.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area. Upon entering the roadway the operator shall yield the right-
of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Code 1976, § 16-100; Code 1982, § 12-180)
Sec. 34-246. Speed.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions existing.
(Code 1976, § 16-99; Code 1982, § 12-181)
Sec. 34-247. Clinging to moving vehicles.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, rollerskates
or any toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any public conveyance or
moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Code 1976, § 16-101; Code 1982, § 12-182)
Sec. 34-248. Riding on handlebars, etc.
   The operator of a motorcycle or bicycle, when upon a street, shall not carry
any person upon the handlebars, frame or tank of any such vehicle, nor shall
any person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(Code 1976, § 16-102; Code 1982, § 12-183)
Sec. 34-249. Hands on handlebars; carrying articles.
   (a)   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without
having at least one hand upon the handlebars.
   (b)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents him from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Code 1976, § 16-103; Code 1982, § 12-184)
Sec. 34-250. Riding on sidewalk.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on any sidewalk within the town without due
caution and shall yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians using said
sidewalks.
(Code 1976, § 16-104; Code 1982, § 12-185; Ord. No. 99-008, § 1, 6-10-1999)
Sec. 34-251. Equipment on bicycles.
   (a)   A bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor shall any person use, any
siren or whistle upon a bicycle.
   (b)   Bicycles shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Code 1976, § 16-105; Code 1982, § 12-186)
   State law reference(s)--Lighting equipment, G.S. 20-129.
Sec. 34-252. Parking.
   No bicycle shall be parked or left standing on any street or sidewalk so as
to unnecessarily obstruct the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or
as to otherwise create any undue safety hazard.
(Code 1976, § 16-106; Code 1982, § 12-187; Ord. No. 01-001, § 1, 3-8-2001)
Sec. 34-253. Motorcycles and off-highway motor vehicles generally.
   (a)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to exercise the general police
power in order to protect the enjoyment and use of public and private property,
to protect the rights of privacy, to preserve property and personal values and
to promote peace and quiet within this town by regulating the use of
motorcycles, motor-driven cycles or off-highway motor vehicles on public and
private property. This section shall not apply to the driving, riding and use
of motorcycles, motor-driven cycles or off-highway motor vehicles on streets
and highways or in other areas which are specifically governed or preempted by
the General Statutes of North Carolina.
   (b)   Use. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive, ride, or use a
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, or off-highway motor vehicle, including but not
limited to motor scooters, motorbikes and minibikes, upon any public or private
property which is not a public street or highway, including those properties
designated as greenway or bicycle path except that this subsection shall not
apply in any of the following instances:
   (1)   Where such vehicle is being driven, ridden or used upon property by
the owner, resident or occupant of such property, or by an authorized visitor
when such visitor is accompanied by or has a written authorization in his
possession from the owner, resident or occupant of such property.
   (2)   Where such use is permitted in accordance with the zoning ordinance of
the town.
   (c)   Mufflers. It shall be unlawful for any person drive, ride or use a
motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or off-highway motor vehicle, including but not
limited to motor scooters, motorbikes and minibikes, upon any public or private
property which is not a public street or highway, unless said motorcycle,
motor-driven cycle, or off-highway motor vehicle is at all times equipped with
a muffler in good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive
or unusual noise, annoying smoke and smoke screens, and it shall be unlawful to
use a muffler cutout.
(Code 1982, § 12-188; Ord. No. 78-9, § 1, 4-27-1978; Ord. No. 87-103, § 3, 12-
10-1987)
   State law reference(s)--General ordinance-making power, G.S. 160A-174.
Sec. 34-254. Exemption for police bicycle patrols.
   Any police officer riding or operating a bicycle in the performance of duty
is exempted from all provisions of the Town Code, so long as the actions of the
officer(s) are deemed reasonable and with due regard for the public's safety.
Furthermore, this exemption shall be deemed applicable to any and all
provisions of the Code where the regulation of bicycles is addressed.
(Code 1982, § 12-189; Ord. No. 94-030, 10-13-1994)
Sec. 34-255. Bicycle helmets required.
   (a)   Every person 15 years of age or under operating a bicycle, inline
skates, roller skates, skateboard, scooter, or other similar vehicle or device
on a public street, sidewalk, greenway, or other right-of-way or on any
property owned or controlled by the town shall wear a protective helmet on his
or her head, with the chin strap securely fastened under the chin. Such helmet
shall be fitted to the size of the operator and shall meet or exceed the
standards for bicycle helmet use and wear as set by ANSI (American National
Standards Institute) or the Snell Memorial Foundation.
   (b)   No passenger 15 years of age or under may ride on a bicycle on any of
the locations enumerated in subsection (a) without wearing a helmet as
described in subsection (a).
   (c)   No parent or guardian of any juvenile operating, or a passenger of,
any vehicle or device described in subsections (a) and (b) above shall
knowingly allow a violation of this section.
(Code 1982, § 12-190; Ord. No. 99-009, § 1, 6-10-1999; Ord. No. 01-004, § 1, 4-
12-2001)
   State law reference(s)--Bicycle helmets, G.S. 20-171.9.
Sec. 34-256. Penalty.
   In those sections requiring compliance by juveniles 15 years of age or
under, the parents or guardians shall be deemed responsible for insuring such
compliance.
(Code 1982, § 12-198; Ord. No. 99-010, § 1, 6-10-1999)
Secs. 34-257--34-275. Reserved.
ARTICLE IX. OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC STREETS AND ROADS
Sec. 34-276. Authority to regulate.
   Pursuant to G.S. 160A-300.6, the town is authorized, by ordinance, to
require the registration of, and regulate the operation of electric powered
golf carts upon any public street or road within the town.
(Code 1982, § 12-230; Ord. No. 02-008, § 1, 3-14-2002; Ord. No. 2010-Code-05,
7-15-2010)
Sec. 34-277. Definitions.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   Golf cart means a golf cart as defined by G.S. 20-4.01(12a).
   Operate means to drive, or be in physical control of a golf cart that is
moving or has its engine on.
   Public streets and roads are those roads defined in section
34-279 and
34-280 below.
(Code 1982, § 12-231; Ord. No. 02-008, § 1, 3-14-2002; Ord. No. 2010-Code-05,
7-15-2010)
Sec. 34-278. Operation on public streets and roads.
   It is unlawful to operate a golf cart on a public street or road within the
town unless the following requirements are met.
   (1)   The golf cart may only be operated on streets and roads that meet the
requirements of section
34-279 or section
34-280 below.
   (2)   No person may operate a golf cart unless that person is licensed to
drive upon the streets and highways of North Carolina and then, only in
accordance with such driver's license. An operator of golf cart must be at
least 16 years of age.
   (3)   Only the number of people the golf cart is designed to seat may ride
on a golf cart, specifically, passengers shall not be carried on the part of a
golf cart designed to carry golf bags.
   (4)   No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than reasonable and
prudent for the existing conditions, and in no instance at a speed greater than
20 miles per hour.
   (5)   No golf cart may be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
   (6)   Golf carts must be operated to the extreme right of the roadway and
must yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (7)   Golf carts may be operated in bicycle lanes on the streets and roads
permitted by section
34-279 and section
34-280 below provided they do not impede bicycle traffic.
   (8)   Golf carts may be operated only during daylight hours, with the
exception that golf carts equipped with operating lights and reflectors meeting
the requirements set forth below may operate only between the hours of 7:00
a.m. to 10:00 p.m.:
      a.   Two lighted lamps, one on each side of the front of the golf cart,
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 300
feet in front of such golf cart, and a red lamp on the rear, exhibiting a red
light visible under like conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet to the
rear of such golf cart.
      b.   In lieu of the red lamp, the golf cart may be equipped at the rear
with two red reflectors of a diameter of not less than three inches which are
so designed and located as to height and which are maintained so that each
reflector is visible for at least 500 feet when approached by a motor vehicle
displaying lawful undimmed headlights.
   (9)   Golf carts must be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws and ordinances, including all laws, regulations and ordinances
pertaining to the possession and use of alcoholic beverages.
   (10)   Golf carts must have the basic equipment supplied by the
manufacturer, including a vehicle identification number. Such equipment must
include all safety devices as installed by said manufacturer, including lights
and reflectors if the vehicle is to be operated at any time before sunrise or
after sunset, as provided in section
34-278.
   (11)   The chief of police, or his designee, may prohibit the operation of
golf carts on any street or road if the chief determines that the prohibition
is necessary in the interest of safety.
(Code 1982, § 12-232; Ord. No. 02-008, § 1, 3-14-2002; Ord. No. 06-003, 2-9-
2006; Ord. No. 2010-Code-05, 7-15-2010)
Sec. 34-279. Streets and roads approved for use.
   (a)   Golf carts authorized for use under the provisions of this article may
be operated in the town on public streets and roads only within the Preston PUD
and on those public streets and roads in the town that directly connect
portions of the Preston PUD to each other. The following requirements must also
be met as follows:
   (1)   Golf carts may only be operated on local streets and roads with a
posted speed limit for motor vehicles of 30 miles per hour or less, provided,
however, that golf carts may cross streets and roads with higher speed limits
at designated golf cart crossing locations or at intersections in accordance
with the rules of the road.
   (2)   Golf carts shall cross to the opposite side of local streets only at
designated crossing locations unless an exigent circumstance exists where the
golf cart operator must take an evasive action(s).
   (3)   Golf carts shall not be operated on the sidewalks except to cross over
to a street or road from a private drive or at an approved crossing location.
   (4)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties without the permission of the property owner.
   (b)   During an emergency situation or at a special event, any police
officer supervising or controlling traffic may direct that golf carts be
operated on or upon other locations.
(Code 1982, § 12-233; Ord. No. 02-008, § 1, 3-14-2002)
Sec. 34-280. Other residential streets and roads approved for use of golf
carts.
   (a)   Applicability. Golf carts may also be operated upon certain public
residential streets in a development that includes residential areas with at
least one thousand dwelling units, and that has been issued a certificate from
the chief of police ("certificate") in accordance with this section. To be
issued a certificate, the property owner or developer (for undeveloped parcels)
or the home owners association (jointly "owner") shall provide adequate
documentation that the residential portion of the development meets all of the
following criteria:
   (1)   The residential area within which golf carts may be operated must
encompass a minimum of 100 total acres and a minimum of 200 total dwelling
units. Such residential area shall consist of defined neighborhoods,
subdivisions, and/or groups of neighborhoods or subdivisions bounded by any
designated thoroughfare.
   (2)   The residential area within which golf carts may be operated shall
include a recreation and/or community center for residents of the development
that offers social, educational and/or fitness programs.
   (3)   The owner shall provide a written proposal ("proposal") for the use of
golf carts on public residential streets within the development. The proposal
shall include:
      a.   A proposed plan showing the nature of the streets where such carts
are proposed to be used, including street widths, speed limits, the existence
of any on-street parking, and other related information as deemed necessary by
the town; and
      b.   A signage plan showing the local residential streets or roads where
golf carts may be used, designated crossing locations, the boundary of
allowable areas for golf cart use, and other directional information ("signage
plan").
   (b)   Upon receipt of the adequate documentation, the Town of Cary will
review the documentation, proposal and signage plan with engineering and public
safety consideration given to the nature of the residential development and the
design of roads within the residential development, including, but not limited
to, sight distances, horizontal and vertical curvature, intersections, speed
limits, parking, and road widths of the specific public streets where golf
carts are proposed to be operated. If the residential development meets the
criteria above and the proposal appears to adequately address the
considerations stated above, the police department may issue a certificate. The
certificate shall be conditioned upon the development maintaining its
qualifying status hereunder and continuing to meet the requirements specified
herein. Upon the issuance of a certificate, owner shall post all areas shown on
signage plan with sign approved by the planning department prior to the use of
any golf cart within the development. All signs shown on signage plan shall be
maintained during the term of the certificate by the owner. Additionally, the
owner shall create and maintain a golf cart registration system that includes
the issuance of numbered stickers for display on registered carts at all times.
The Town of Cary reserves the right to revoke or alter the terms of the
certificate if significant safety issues arise, without the approval of the
owners.
   (c)   Operational requirements. With respect to the operation of golf carts
within the residential developments described in this section, the following
requirements shall apply:
   (1)   Golf carts may only be operated on local residential streets and roads
with a posted speed limit for motor vehicles of 30 miles per hour or less.
   (2)   Golf carts may operate on local streets where on-street parking is
permitted only as approved per section
34-280(a)(3).
   (3)   Golf carts are prohibited from crossing collector streets except at
identified crossing points.
   (4)   Golf carts are prohibited from crossing thoroughfare streets and roads
except at grade-separated locations.
   (5)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks except to cross over to
a street or road from a private drive or at an approved crossing location.
   (6)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties without the permission of the property owner.
   (7)   During an emergency situation or at a special event, any public safety
officer supervising or controlling traffic may direct any golf cart operator to
operate the golf cart on alternate routes of travel.
   (8)   Golf carts may be operated on public residential streets only between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. No. 06-003, 2-9-2006)
Sec. 34-281. Enforcement.
   Violation of this article shall be an infraction, the maximum penalty for
which shall be $50.00, provided however, that operating a golf cart under the
influence of an impairing substance (i.e., alcohol or drugs) on a public road
or highway is not a violation of this article, but a violation of state law,
and is punishable as provided therein.
(Code 1982, § 12-234; Ord. No. 02-008, § 1, 3-14-2002; Ord. No. 06-003, 2-9-
2006)
   Note--Formerly § 24-280.
Sec. 34-282. Liability disclaimer.
   This article is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Golf carts
are not designed or manufactured to be used on the public streets, and the town
in no way advocates or endorses their operation on public streets or roads. The
town, by regulating such operation is merely trying to address obvious safety
issues, and adoption of this article is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on public streets is safe or advisable if done in
accordance with this article. All persons who operate or ride upon golf carts
on public streets or roads do so at their own risk and peril, and must be
observant of, and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. The town has no
liability under any theory of liability and the town assumes no liability, for
permitting golf carts to be operated on the public streets and roads under the
special legislation granted by the state's legislature. Any person who operates
a golf cart is responsible for procuring liability insurance sufficient to
cover the risk involved in using a golf cart on the public streets and roads.
(Code 1982, § 12-235; Ord. No. 02-008, § 1, 3-14-2002; Ord. No. 06-003, 2-9-
2006)
   Note--Formerly § 24-281.
Secs. 34-283--34-300. Reserved.
ARTICLE X.  INFRACTIONS
Sec. 34-301. Certain violations an infraction.
   Any person who violates a provision of this Chapter 34 that regulates the
operation or parking of vehicles shall be responsible for an infraction and
shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than fifty dollars ($50.00).
This penalty is in addition to any civil or other penalty authorized by this
Chapter 34.
(Ord. No. 2022-Code-04, 9-22-2022)
   State law reference—Violation of local ordinances misdemeanor, G.S. 14-4(b).
Secs. 34-302—34-320. Reserved.
ARTICLE XI. SCHEDULES
Sec. 34-321—34-334. Reserved.
   Editor’s note—Traffic_schedules are maintained in the Town Clerk's Office.
Chapter 35
RESERVED
 
Chapter 36
UTILITIES*
----------
   *State law references—Public enterprises, G.S. Ch. 62 et seq.; power to
require connections, G.S. 160A-317; operation of public enterprise outside
corporate limits, G.S. 160A-312; authority to fix and enforce rates, G.S. 160A-
314.
----------
Article I. In General
Sec. 36-1.   Tampering with water or sewer systems--Protection of systems on
certain days.
Sec. 36-2.   Same--Testing and repair equipment.
Sec. 36-3.   Connections--Application.
Sec. 36-4.   Same--Subdivisions.
Sec. 36-5.   Utility connections.
Sec. 36-6.   Development fees.
Sec. 36-7.   Electrical and plumbing inspection.
Sec. 36-8.   Service charges.
Sec. 36-9.   Bills due when presented.
Sec. 36-10.   Disclaimer of liability.
Sec. 36-11.   Bulk water sales to wholesale customers.
Sec. 36-12.   Right of entry.
Sec. 36-13.   Sub-metering.
Sec. 36-14.   Maintenance of privately-owned water or sewer pipelines and/or
service lines.
Secs. 36-15—36-33. Reserved.
Article II. Water_and_Sewer_Extensions
Sec. 36-34.   Generally; payment of expense.
Sec. 36-35.   Ownership of mains.
Sec. 36-36.   Street repairs at expense of property owner.
Sec. 36-37.   Permit for construction or operation of, or change to, water
distribution system, wastewater collection system, or reclaimed water system--
Prohibited activities; application; conformance.
Sec. 36-38.   Same--Processing of applications.
Sec. 36-39.   Same--Enforcement.
Sec. 36-40.   Same--Hearing.
Sec. 36-41.   Same--Changes to permitting program.
Sec. 36-42.   Reimbursement policy.
Secs. 36-43—36-70. Reserved.
Article III. Water
Division 1. Generally
Sec. 36-71.   Permit for use of groundwaters; application; fee.
Sec. 36-72.   Use of town water.
Sec. 36-73.   Protection of water system.
Sec. 36-74.   Connection required.
Sec. 36-75.   Single source of water supply.
Sec. 36-76.   Separate meters.
Sec. 36-77.   Sale of water from public works facility and hydrants.
Sec. 36-78.   Cross connection control, backflow prevention assemblies
required, program established.
Sec. 36-79.   Turning on water without authority.
Sec. 36-80.   Water service provided by town includes only alternate day
outdoor irrigation.
Sec. 36-81.   Water shortage response.
Sec. 36-82.   Installation of meters.
Sec. 36-83.   Water waste.
Sec. 36-84.   Rain sensors on automatic irrigation systems.
Secs. 36-85—36-111. Reserved.
Division 2. Service Outside of Town
Sec. 36-112.   Availability of water supply.
Sec. 36-113.   Rates.
Sec. 36-114.   Disclaimer of liability.
Sec. 36-115.   Agreements--Generally.
Sec. 36-116.   Same--Annexation.
Sec. 36-117.   Discontinuance.
Sec. 36-118.—36-149. Reserved.
Article IV. Sewers
Division 1. Generally
Sec. 36-150.   Connection required.
Sec. 36-151.   Septic tank; privy.
Secs. 36-152—36-170. Reserved.
Division 2. Sewer Use
Sec. 36-171.   Purpose and policy.
Sec. 36-172.   Definitions; abbreviations.
Sec. 36-173.   Prohibited discharge standards.
Sec. 36-174.   Fees.
Sec. 36-175.   Wastewater discharge permit, application and issuance.
Sec. 36-176.   Reporting requirements.
Sec. 36-177.   Compliance monitoring.
Sec. 36-178.   Confidential information.
Sec. 36-179.   Enforcement.
Sec. 36-180.   Annual publication of significant noncompliance.
Sec. 36-181.   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations.
Sec. 36-182.   Notices.
Sec. 36-183.   Fat, oil, and grease control.
Sec. 36-184.   Severability.
Sec. 36-185.   Conflict.
Sec. 36-186.   Amendment to certain sections of sewer use ordinance for users
in Kit Creek Pump Station Service Area.
Sec. 36-187.   Exceptions to definition of significant industrial user.
Sec. 36-188.   Adjudicatory hearings.
Secs. 36-189—36-202. Reserved.
Article V. Reclaimed Water System
Sec. 36-203.   Purpose and intent.
Sec. 36-204.   Reclaimed water system part of town utility system and other
definitions.
Sec. 36-205.   Generally.
Sec. 36-206.   Mandatory use of reclaimed water for irrigation systems.
Sec. 36-207.   Connection to reclaimed water system.
Sec. 36-208.   Reclaimed water service application requirements.
Sec. 36-209.   Installation of lines and easement dedications.
Sec. 36-210.   Meter requirements.
Sec. 36-211.   Permits.
Sec. 36-212.   Authority to adopt rules and regulations.
Sec. 36-213.   Authority to adopt rates, fees and charges.
Sec. 36-214.   Priorities for extending reclaimed water service.
Sec. 36-215.   Conditions of reclaimed water service use.
Sec. 36-216.   Service interruption.
Sec. 36-217.   Maintenance by customer.
Sec. 36-218.   Conservation of water resources.
Sec. 36-219.   Right to refuse service.
Sec. 36-220.   Ownership by town.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
Sec. 36-1. Tampering with water or sewer systems--Protection of systems on
certain days.
   (a)   No person shall cut, break, obstruct, damage, change, alter or
otherwise interfere or tamper with, in any manner, any water pipe, water main,
hydrant, sewer pipe, water tank or any other thing which is a part of the
waterworks or sewer system.
   (b)   No person shall make any connection to any portion of the water or
sewer system or perform any excavation or other work adjacent to or near said
system or make any street or other repairs which might endanger said water or
sewer system on any legal holidays of the town or on Saturdays or Sundays
without the prior written permission of the town manager.
   (c)   No person shall operate any valve on the town water system without the
prior notification and approval of the town of Cary.
   (d)   Penalties for violation.
   (1)   Civil.
      a.   The first violation of this section shall subject the offender to a
civil penalty in the amount of $250.00, to be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within
the prescribed period of time after he has been cited for violation.
      b.   All subsequent violations of this section by the same person shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $1,000.00 per
violation, to be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt
if the offender does not pay the penalty within the prescribed period of time
after he has been cited for violation.
      c.   The offender shall be issued a written citation by delivery in
person or mailed by certified or registered mail. The civil penalty must be
paid within 72 hours of receipt of written citation by the offender.
   (2)   Criminal. In addition to, or in lieu of, the remedies authorized in
subsection (d)(1) above, any violation of this section may be prosecuted as a
criminal matter.
(Code 1976, § 17-16; Code 1982, § 19-1; Ord. No. 87-13, § 1, 3-12-1987; Ord.
No. 03-003, 1-9-2003)
   State law reference(s)--Penalties for ordinance violations, G.S. 14-4, 160A-
175.
Sec. 36-2. Same--Testing and repair equipment.
   No person shall maliciously or willfully damage, destroy, uncover, deface or
tamper with any equipment or materials belonging to the town and used, or
intended to be used, for the purposes of making measurements, tests,
examinations or repairs to the sewer system or water system of the town.
(Code 1976, § 17-29; Code 1982, § 19-2)
   State law reference(s)--Interference with water meters, G.S. 14-151.1.
Sec. 36-3. Connections--Application.
   No connection shall be made to any sewer, reclaimed water, or water main or
to any sewer, reclaimed water, or water lateral ("new service connection" or
"new connection") except after the written application therefor has been
approved by the Town in accordance with policy statements and/or standard
procedures established by the Town.
(Code 1976, § 17-3; Code 1982, § 19-3; Ord. No. 98-018, 10-8-1998; Ord. No.
2018-Code-03, § 1, 6-28-2018)
Sec. 36-4. Same--Subdivisions.
   (a)   Both the water distribution system and the sewage collection system in
any particular area of a subdivision will be 100 percent completed, tested,
sterilized and approved for use before any permit for connection to these
systems will be issued.
   (b)   If the complete paving of streets in the area, including curb and
gutter, cannot be accomplished in the time necessary for moving in the homes
constructed on the property, exception could be granted by the council to allow
for the use of certain homes falling in the above category; provided, that the
developer of the property will furnish to the town a bond, approved by the
council, guaranteeing the completion of the streets in question; and provided
further, that this type of permit will not be issued to more than 20 percent of
the homes in any given subdivision section.
   (c)   No structure located upon a subdivision lot shall be permitted to be
connected to town water or sewer lines until such time as the subdivision has
been approved by the council.
   (d)   Application for a permit to connect to water and/or sewer ("new
connection") must be made prior to the issuance of any building permit for a
dwelling unit. The fees for water and/or sewer service connections shall be set
from time to time by the council.
(Code 1976, § 17-4; Code 1982, § 19-4; Ord. No. 87-13, § 2, 3-12-1987; Ord. No.
98-018, 10-8-1998)
Sec. 36-5. Utility Connections.
   (a)   Authority of town. The town shall install and retain ownership of all
public utility meters.
   (b)   Utility connection fees. Every person, firm, partnership or
corporation connecting to the town utility system shall pay connection fees as
established by the town council in the annual operating budget, except when the
town does not make the connection.
   (c)   All utility connections shall be made in accordance with policy
statements and/or standard procedures established by the Town.
(Code 1976, § 17-5; Code 1982, § 19-5; Ord. No. 79-23, § 1, 9-27-1979; Ord. No.
79-30, § 1, 11-8-1979; Ord. No. 84-3, § 1, 3-8-1984; Ord. No. 95-011, 3-27-
1995; Ord. No. 2018-Code-03, § 1, 6-28-2018)
Sec. 36-6. Development fees.
   (a)   Water and sewer system development fees shall be established for
service imposed with respect to new development to fund costs of capital
improvements necessitated by and attributable to such new development, to
recoup costs of existing facilities which serve such new development, or a
combination of those costs.
   (b)   Development fee charges shall be collected by method and amount as
stated in the annual utility capital improvements budget ordinance and in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 162A, Article 8.
   (c)   Water and sewer system development fees shall be in addition to all
other charges prescribed by ordinance or resolution now or hereafter in effect
by the town.
(Code 1976, § 17-6; Code 1982, § 19-6; Ord. No. 79-28, §§ 1, 2, 10-11-1979;
Ord. No. 82-9, § 1, 8-12-1982; Ord. No. 84-22(A), § 1, 11-8-1984; Ord. No. 86-
25(a), § 1, 6-26-1986; Ord. No. 97-031, § 1, 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 02-016, 6-13-
2002; Ord. No. 2011-Code-07, 10-13-2011; Ord. No. 2018-Code-03, § 1, 6-28-2018)
Sec. 36-7. Electrical and plumbing inspection.
   No building or structure shall be connected to the water or the sewage
disposal systems of the town until the wiring and electrical service and all
plumbing installations within said structure shall have been inspected and
approved by the building inspectors of the town as prescribed by chapter
8 of this Code.
(Code 1976, § 17-8; Code 1982, § 19-7)
Sec. 36-8. Service charges.
   The monthly service charges for water and sewer service shall be established
each year as a part of the annual operating budget ordinance.
(Code 1976, § 17-10; Code 1982, § 19-8; Ord. No. 78-3, §§ 1, 2, 4-13-1978; Ord.
No. 80-16, § 1, 7-24-1980; Ord. No. 82-15, § 1, 9-23-1982; Ord. No. 84-4, § 1,
3-8-1984)
Sec. 36-9. Bills due when presented.
   All water, sewer, and garbage bills are due and payable when presented and
shall become delinquent ten days after the billing date. If a bill has not been
paid by the delinquent date of the next bill, water service shall be
discontinued. No water service shall thereafter be rendered until all charges
and fees outstanding, including disconnection and reconnection fees, have been
paid in full.
(Code 1976, § 17-12; Code 1982, § 19-9; Ord. No. 78-12, § 1, 9-14-1978; Ord.
No. 79-1, § 1, 1-25-1979; Ord. No. 84-5, § 1, 3-8-1984; Ord. No. 84-20, § 1, 9-
27-1984)
   State law reference(s)--Enforcement of rates, G.S. 160A-314.
Sec. 36-10. Disclaimer of liability.
   The town shall not be held liable for:
   (1)   Any claim or offset for damage or injury caused by or resulting from
the performance without negligence of any act or duty herein authorized or
required for the conduct, operation and maintenance of services and facilities
relating to the furnishing of water and enforcement of penalties for nonpayment
of charges thereof.
   (2)   Any damage caused by or resulting in the shutting off of the water
supply at any premises with or without notice for repairs, maintenance or for
nonpayment of bills.
   (3)   Any damage or injury resulting from the failure of any pipe,
connection, fixture, appliance or installation in any plumbing system on the
outlet side of the water meter at any premises connected with the water supply
system of the town.
   (4)   Any damage resulting from the use of equipment required to maintain
public sewer where manhole elevations are above fixture elevations and no
backwater device has been installed.
   (5)   Any other act or thing required for the proper administration of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Code 1976, § 17-15; Code 1982, § 19-10)
Sec. 36-11. Bulk water sales to wholesale customers.
   (a)   Wholesale customers defined. Wholesale customers shall be those
customers that purchase water or sewer service from the town for resale to
other individual retail water or sewer customers. Such wholesale customers can
include other local governments or public or private utilities operating inside
or outside the corporate boundaries of the town.
   (b)   Contract required. All bulk water sales to wholesale customers, after
the effective date of the ordinance from which this section is derived, will be
by contract, which shall set out the terms and conditions of the sale.
   (c)   Deposit required. Wholesale customers shall be required to make a
deposit to the town in an amount equal to the cumulative deposit that would be
required if their individual retail customers each made a deposit as required
under section
36-11. Such deposits shall be returned after 36 months as a wholesale customer,
including 12 consecutive months with a good credit history with the town.
   (d)   Late penalties. A late penalty equal to two-thirds of one percent per
month (eight percent annual) will be charged on invoices after the due date of
the invoice. Unless otherwise contained in a contract for service, the due date
shall be 30 days after the billing date.
(Code 1982, § 19-11; Ord. No. 89-79, § 1, 9-28-1989; Ord. No. 01-005, 4-12-
2001)
Sec. 36-12. Right of entry.
The directors of public works or utilities or the finance director, or any of
their assistants, shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any
premises for the purposes of billing for services, reading meters, assessing
hazards for cross connection control on potable water lines or operating or
maintaining any part of the waterworks or sewer works systems as required by
this chapter or by the sewer use ordinance.
(Code 1982, § 19-13; Ord. No. 94-037, § 1, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 99-013, § 2, 8-
12-1999; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 36-13. Sub-metering.
   (a)   Definition. Sub-metering is the metering of water for resale to
multifamily or multibusiness premises after that water has been metered for
sale purposes by the town.
   (b)   Registering. Any party desiring to sub-meter water purchased from the
town must register with the town's finance department prior to any sub-metering
activity and pay whatever fees are associated with that registration.
   (c)   Penalties. Any party failing to so register for sub-metering with the
town shall be subject to the following penalties:
   (1)   Civil.
      a.   Any violation of this section shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in the amount of $1,000.00, to be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within
the prescribed period of time after he has been cited for violation.
      b.   The offender shall be issued a written citation by delivery in
person or mailed by certified or registered mail. The civil penalty must be
paid within 72 hours of receipt of written citation by the offender.
   (2)   Criminal. In addition to, or in lieu of, the remedies authorized in
subsection (1), above, any violation of this section may be prosecuted as a
criminal matter.
(Code 1982, § 19-15; Ord. No. 01-005, 4-12-2001)
   State law reference(s)--Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Sec. 36-14. Maintenance of privately-owned water or sewer pipelines and/or
service lines.
   (a)   Every user or owner/occupant whose premises have a privately-owned
water or sewer line(s) and related appurtenances located in the area from the
structure to the town's connection of the water distribution or sanitary sewer
collection system is required to keep such line(s) in a condition comparable to
that of its original design intent. Privately-owned lines are to be free of
defects and are only to be used for the delivery of potable water from the
town's water distribution system to that premises or for the delivery of wastes
from that premises to the town's sanitary sewer system.
   (b)   Upon becoming aware of a violation of the provision of this section,
the town manager or designee shall give notice to the owner and/or occupant of
the premises involved. The town manager or designee may direct that within a
designated period of time that the malfunction or inappropriate use be
corrected. If the staff determines that it is dangerous or prejudicial to the
public health, safety or environment the town may summarily remove, abate, or
remedy the situation. Specifically, based upon such a finding, notice will be
given to correct, repair, and make functioning to the original design the
violation within time specified in such notice. Refusal or failure to comply
with such notice may result in the town manager or designee directing staff to
take the appropriate steps for the correction and repair of the line, as
specified in the notice. The expense of the action shall be paid by person in
default (owner, user, or property management firm) and if not paid, a lien
shall be placed upon the land or premises where the violation arose to be
collected as unpaid taxes.
(Code 1982, § 19-16; Ord. No. 99-021, 12-9-1999)
Secs. 36-15--36-33. Reserved.
ARTICLE II. WATER_AND_SEWER_EXTENSIONS
Sec. 36-34. Generally; payment of expense.
   All water and sewer extensions to property outside the corporate limits, and
all water and sewer extensions to property inside the corporate limits which is
developed subsequent to or annexed by voluntary petition subsequent to December
1, 1976, shall be made at the sole expense of the owner, unless water and sewer
extensions are made by the town under existing assessment policies. All water
and sewer extensions to property within the corporate limits which was
developed prior to December 1, 1976, and which was located within the corporate
limits prior to December 1, 1976, shall be made to the property line at the
expense of the town. Nothing in this section shall relieve any owner or
developer of property from payment of development fees, connection charges or
other charges made in conjunction with extension of or connection to water and
sewer lines.
(Code 1976, § 17-20; Code 1982, § 19-22; Ord. No. 76-40, § 1, 11-18-1976; Ord.
No. 82-9, § 2, 8-12-1982; Ord. No. 02-016, 6-13-2002)
Sec. 36-35. Ownership of mains.
   All mains extended and constructed under this article shall be of such size
and material and shall be laid in such manner as contained in the town's
overall master utility plan and engineering standards. All mains so constructed
or extended shall be and remain the property of the town.
(Code 1976, § 17-21; Code 1982, § 19-23)
Sec. 36-36. Street repairs at expense of property owner.
   Repaving and repairing of all streets required to be breached to lay and
construct mains under this article shall be done at the expense of the property
owner obtaining the extension of water and sewer lines.
(Code 1976, § 17-22; Code 1982, § 19-24)
Sec. 36-37. Permit for construction or operation of, or change to, water
distribution system, wastewater collection system, or reclaimed water
system—Prohibited activities; application; conformance.
   (a)   No person shall do or carry out any of the things or activities listed
in subsections (a)(1)--(3) below concerning a water distribution system
(hereafter "water system"), wastewater collection system (sometimes hereafter
"sanitary sewer system"), or reclaimed water system, which is, or is proposed
to become, a part of the town water system, wastewater collection system, or
reclaimed water system, and is located within the town utility service area, as
such term is defined in G.S. 143-215.1(f), unless such person shall have
applied for and shall have received from the town a permit therefor and shall
have complied with such conditions, if any, as are prescribed by such permit.
The term "water system" shall mean and include, but shall not be limited to,
water distribution lines, including required fire hydrants, valves, air release
valves and manholes. The term "sanitary sewer system" shall mean and include,
but shall not be limited to, sanitary sewer lines, manholes, wastewater pumping
stations, and force mains, including required valves, air release valves and
cleanouts located in the public rights-of-way. The term "reclaimed water
system" shall mean and include, but shall not be limited to, reclaimed water
lines, including required valves, air release valves, and manholes. Activities
prohibited without a permit shall be as follows:
   (1)   Construct or operate any water system, sanitary sewer system, or
reclaimed water system;
   (2)   Alter, extend, or change the construction or method of operation of
any existing or proposed water, sanitary sewer system, or reclaimed water
system; or
   (3)   Enter into a contract for the construction and installation of any
water system, sanitary sewer system, or reclaimed water system, or for the
alteration or extension of such a system.
   (b)   Any person proposing to undertake any thing or activity described in
subsection (a) of this section shall make timely and proper application on such
form(s) as may be prescribed by the director of utilities, or his or her
designee, (hereafter "director") and provide such information as may be
required by the director. A copy of all applications for permits subject to
this section and of all approved permits and plans shall be provided to the
state department of environmental quality (DEQ) pursuant to applicable law.
   (c)   All water systems, sanitary sewer systems, or reclaimed water systems
proposed for connection to the town water system, sanitary sewer system, or
reclaimed water system and all proposed modifications to any existing portion
of the town water system, sanitary sewer system, or reclaimed water system
shall be designed, constructed and installed in conformance with applicable
provisions of the then current town standard_specifications_and_details_manual
(hereafter "town standards") and any other town rules, policies and procedures
(hereafter "town requirements"). Any engineering plans, specifications and
profiles submitted by applicants for water systems, sanitary sewer systems, or
reclaimed water systems, and modifications shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of an engineer licensed to practice in the state, shall bear
the seal of such engineer, and shall be subject to approval by the director.
Such plans, specifications and profiles shall be prepared at the expense of the
applicant. The director shall maintain a copy of the current town standards and
town requirements for public inspection.
   (d)   The denial of an application for a permit, subject to the provisions
of this section, shall be made in writing and shall contain each reason for the
denial and the town's estimate of the changes in the applicant's proposed
activities or plan which will be required in order that the applicant may
obtain a permit. Nothing in such estimate shall preclude or otherwise bar the
town from denying a permit which incorporates such changes, based upon changed
circumstances or information not previously known by the town.
(Code 1982, § 19-25; Ord. No. 95-021, 6-22-1995; Ord. No. 04-010, § 19-25, 9-9-
2004; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 36-38. Same—Processing of applications.
   (a)   Each application subject to section
36-37 shall be accompanied by a fee, which shall be set forth in the town's
schedule_of_charges_and_fees. A copy of the current fee_schedule shall be
maintained by the director and made available for inspection upon request. Any
application which is not accompanied by a fee in the proper amount may be
considered incomplete.
   (b)   The director shall review the fee, plans, specifications and other
project data accompanying an application, and shall determine if the
application and accompanying material are complete and in a form acceptable to
the director. The director shall acknowledge receipt of a complete application.
   (c)   The director shall take final action on all permit applications not
later than 90 days following receipt of a complete application; however, no
permit shall be issued until final approval has also been given by the town
engineering department or town council for any related development plan. All
permits issued shall be in writing; provided, however, in the event
construction has not begun pursuant to an issued permit within one year of the
date of the permit, the permit shall expire and a new permit must be applied
for and obtained by the applicant in accordance with sections
36-37 through
36-41. Construction and operation shall strictly conform to the permit
requirements. A permit may contain such conditions as the director determines
to be reasonably necessary, considering the factors on which final action on a
permit can be based. Final action on any permit shall be based upon the design,
capacity and manner of operation of the appropriate town water system, sanitary
sewer system, or reclaimed water system; effectuating the purposes of all
applicable rules, regulations, statutes and ordinances of the town, the state,
and the United States of America; and on the town standards and town
requirements.
   (d)   If the application is not complete, the application shall be returned
to the applicant. The director shall advise the applicant in writing:
   (1)   How the application can be modified to make it complete and
acceptable; and
   (2)   That the time for the director to take final action on an application
does not begin until receipt of a complete, corrected application.
   (e)   Any permit issued by the director, pursuant to sections
36-37 through
36-41, is subject to revocation, suspension, or modification, in whole or in
part, upon 14 days' written notice to the applicant by the director for good
cause, including, but not limited to:
   (1)   Violation of any terms or conditions of sections
36-37 through
36-41 or the permit;
   (2)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation or failure to disclose fully
all relevant facts;
   (3)   Refusal of or by the permittee or its contractors, agents or employees
to allow authorized officers, employees or agents of the town, upon
presentation of credentials, to inspect or observe any activity, system, or
other work required by the permittee's permit.
(Code 1982, § 19-26; Ord. No. 95-021, 6-22-1995; Ord. No. 04-010, § 19-26, 9-9-
2004)
Sec. 36-39. Same--Enforcement.
   (a)   Any person that violates, fails to comply with, or continues to
violate any provision of sections
36-37 through
36-41 or any permit issued hereunder shall be liable to the town for a maximum
civil penalty of up to $10,000.00 per violation per day for as long as the
violation(s) continues. Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue
shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation. In determining the amount of
the civil penalty, the director shall take into account all relevant
circumstances, including, but not limited to, the extent of harm caused by the
violation, the magnitude and duration of the violation, efforts to correct the
violation, the compliance history of the person against whom the violation is
assessed, cost of enforcement to the town, whether the violation was committed
willfully or intentionally, and any other factor as justice requires.
   (b)   If any person violates the provisions of sections
36-37 through
36-41 or the terms or conditions of any permit issued hereunder, a civil action
may be commenced in the general court of justice in the name of the town for
such legal and equitable relief as may be appropriate.
   (c)   The remedies provided herein are not exclusive. The town may take any
one, all, or any combination of these actions against any person in violation
of the provisions of sections
36-37 through
36-41 or the terms or conditions of any permit issued hereunder.
(Code 1982, § 19-27; Ord. No. 95-021, 6-22-1995)
   State law reference(s)--Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Sec. 36-40. Same--Hearing.
   (a)   Persons entitled to hearing. Any person whose application for a permit
under section
36-38 is denied, any person whose application for a permit is issued subject to
conditions the applicant finds unacceptable, any person whose permit is revoked
or suspended, and any person against whom a penalty is assessed pursuant to
section
36-39 (each of whom is hereafter referred to as "aggrieved person") is entitled
to a hearing pursuant to this section.
   (b)   Demand for hearing.
   (1)   The aggrieved person shall exercise such right to a hearing by making
a written demand for a hearing in accordance with this subsection.
   (2)   Any person making a demand for a hearing shall deliver the demand to
the director within 30 days of:
      a.   The date of the contested permit;
      b.   The date of the notice of denial of a permit application;
      c.   The date of the notice of a revocation or suspension of an issued
permit; or
      d.   The date a penalty was assessed, as the case may be.
   (c)   Contents of demand. The written demand for a hearing must identify
separately and with particularity:
   (1)   The aggrieved person;
   (2)   The specific permit provisions or conditions or other issues contested
or to be considered;
   (3)   The reasons for the objection; and
   (4)   Any alternate provisions, conditions or terms the aggrieved person
proposes.
   (d)   Conduct of hearing.
   (1)   The hearing shall be conducted by the director and shall be subject to
such rules as have been approved by the council or the director as hereinafter
set forth. If the demand for a hearing is not made in accordance with the
provisions of this section, the director shall reject the demand and any right
to a hearing shall be terminated. If any person demanding a hearing shall fail
to comply with an order of the director or with any rules issued by the
director or approved by the council concerning the conduct of the hearing, the
director may reject the demand and any right to a hearing shall be terminated.
Within 90 days of the receipt of the written demand for a hearing, the director
shall conduct a hearing and issue a final order or decision. The director shall
transmit a copy of the final order or decision to the aggrieved person by
registered or certified mail. No further review of the director's final order
or decision will be allowed, except as set forth in sections
36-37 through
36-41.
   (2)   The director may submit rules to the council for approval concerning
the conduct of the hearing and any other matter associated with the hearing.
Such rules may impose requirements in addition to the provisions of this
section. Upon approval by the council, such rules shall be as effective as if
set forth in this section. The director shall make a copy of such rules
available for inspection upon the request of any person.
   (3)   The director is authorized to take any action which is reasonably
necessary or convenient in considering a demand for a hearing and in resolving
the issues raised therein so long as such action is not contrary to the
provisions of sections
36-37 through
36-41, any rules approved by the council, or other applicable law.
   (4)   The director may appoint a hearing officer to conduct any hearing
authorized by this section. A hearing officer shall have the same authority to
conduct a hearing and reach a decision as is provided to the director; provided
that the decision of the hearing officer shall not be final, but shall be a
recommended decision for consideration by the director. The director may
approve such decision without change, reject the decision and require a new or
continued hearing, or issue a different or revised decision which is supported
by evidence presented at the hearing. The director may refer a recommended
decision of a hearing officer to the town manager or designee. In the event of
a referral, the town manager or designee shall have the same authority to act
upon a recommended decision of a hearing officer as is provided to the
director. The decision of the director or, in the event of a referral, of the
town manager or designee shall be final. A final order may provide that the
action which is the basis for the demand for a hearing is approved without
change or may modify such action in any manner that is supported by the
evidence presented at the hearing.
   (5)   The director may provide for any part of the hearing to be recorded by
any reasonable means, including, but not limited to, audio and/or video
recording, stenographer, or court reporter. A transcript of any hearing, or
part thereof, which is recorded need not be prepared unless requested. The
original of a requested transcript shall be filed with the director. Each
person shall bear the cost of the transcript which such person requests,
including any copy thereof.
   (e)   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the director is made, pursuant to the hearing conducted under section
36-40, may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing a written
petition within 30 days after the date of notice of the order or decision, but
not thereafter, with the superior court of the county. If not previously
requested, such person shall request in writing that a transcript be prepared
for every part of the hearing which was recorded. Such request shall be made at
or before the time that the petition is filed. A copy of the petition shall be
served on the town in the manner required by law. Within 30 days after service
of a copy of the petition upon the town or such other time as may be ordered by
the court, the town shall prepare and transmit to the court the original or a
certified copy of the official record of the hearing as hereinafter set forth.
The official record of the hearing shall consist of all notices, motions and
other similar documents; all documentary and tangible evidence tendered at the
hearing; and the final order or decision. A transcript of each part of the
hearing that was recorded shall be included in the official record as an
exhibit, if available at the time the remaining portion of the official record
is transmitted to the court. If the transcript is not available at that time,
it shall be transmitted to the court as soon as reasonably possible after the
transcript has been prepared. If testimony is taken and not recorded, a
narrative summary of any testimony taken shall be prepared and transmitted to
the court as an exhibit to the official record.
(Code 1982, § 19-28; Ord. No. 95-021, 6-22-1995)
Sec. 36-41. Same--Changes to permitting program.
   The town permitting program, as set forth herein, has been established
pursuant to authority contained in G.S. 130A-317 and G.S. 143-215.1(f) and
rules promulgated thereunder. Amendments to G.S. 130A-317 and 143-215.1(f) and
rules promulgated thereunder that affect the town permitting program shall be
incorporated into the town permitting program within 60 days of the effective
date of such amendments, or as otherwise required by law.
(Code 1982, § 19-29; Ord. No. 95-021, 6-22-1995)
Sec. 36-42. Reimbursement Policy.
   (a)   The cost of installing all utility facilities within a subdivision or
on property being connected, and the cost of installing all utility facilities
between such subdivision or property being developed and the existing
facilities of the town, shall be borne by the property being so connected,
except as explicitly provided in this Section.
   (b)   In instances where utility system extensions and facilities provide
utility service beyond the scope of a specific development, the developer may
request reimbursement from the Town by one or more of the following methods, as
authorized by G.S. 160A-320; 160A-499; and Town of Cary Land Development
Ordinance Section
3.24.
   (1)   Oversize Reimbursement. Developers who construct utility facilities in
accordance with the Town’s utility master plans, but sized greater than that
required for the project being developed, may be eligible for reimbursement.
Such “oversize reimbursement” shall be requested during development plan review
and will be processed by the Town in accordance with policy statements and/or
standard procedures established by the Town.
   (2)   Fee Credit and Reimbursement Contract. Developers who construct off-
site utility facilities, or on-site utility facilities of a regional nature
(including pump stations), may be eligible to enter into a fee credit and
reimbursement contract with the Town, whereby water and/or sewer system
development fees may be waived and costs in excess of those development fees
may be eligible for reimbursement by the Town. Such “reimbursement contracts”
shall be requested by the developer; shall cover only those utility facilities
expressly referred to in the contract; and will be processed by the Town in
accordance with policy statements and/or standard procedures established by the
Town.
(Ord. No. 2018-Code-03, § 1, 6-28-2018)
Secs. 36-43—36-70. Reserved.
ARTICLE III. WATER
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 36-71. Permit for use of groundwaters; application; fee.
   (a)   No person shall construct, install or operate a new facility to
withdraw, obtain or utilize groundwaters, for any purpose, unless such person
shall first obtain a permit therefor from the town.
   (b)   The application for permit shall set forth such facts as necessary to
enable the town to establish and maintain adequate records of groundwater use
within the town.
   (c)   The permit fee shall be as established by the town.
(Code 1982, § 19-35; Ord. No. 82-8, § 1, 8-12-1982)
Sec. 36-72. Use of town water.
   No person shall take or carry away water from any hydrant or public fountain
or supply or sell water to other persons, except as permitted by the town for
sub-metering purposes. The fire hydrants are for the use of the fire department
for fighting fires and are not to be used by any unauthorized person for any
purpose.
(Code 1976, § 17-18; Code 1982, § 19-36; Ord. No. 01-005, 4-12-2001)
Sec. 36-73. Protection of water system.
   No person shall throw trash, rubbish, sticks, stones or any other substance
into the storage tank or reservoir or other water system of the town or on the
grounds around the wells of the town or upon the grounds surrounding the
buildings of any part of and pertaining to the town water system.
(Code 1976, § 17-17; Code 1982, § 19-37)
Sec. 36-74. Connection required.
   (a)   Improving property. Every person improving property located within the
corporate limits of the town which requires a new well or expansions to an
existing well shall make an approved water connection if either of the
following conditions exist:
   (1)   Property abuts or adjoins a street or alley along which is located a
water line; or
   (2)   Property is located adjacent to a town water line.
This connection shall be to the house, building or other place of human
habitation or occupancy, provided that no person shall be required to cross the
private property of another to make such a connection.
   (b)   Compliance with codes. All water connections shall be in accordance
with the North Carolina State Plumbing Code and the requirements of this Code
and any and all local, state and federal requirements that apply.
   (c)   Fees due. At the time any connection request made by the property
owner to the town has been approved, all water connection charges, development
fees and outstanding assessment, or fee in lieu of assessment, shall be due and
payable.
   (d)   Occupancy. No person shall occupy any house or building for human
habitation after the water supply has been cut off, except in cases where it is
cut off temporarily for the purpose of effecting necessary repairs.
   (e)   Private wells. Private wells used for water supply to habitable
structures, which are approved by the county board of health, may be
constructed within the town where property is located in such a manner that
compliance with this section is not possible. If the private well fails and/or
the property cannot support a well and the property is within 300 feet of a
water line, the owner shall make an approved water connection as required in
this section.
(Code 1976, § 17-1; Code 1982, § 19-38; Ord. No. 90-25, § 1, 3-22-1990; Ord.
No. 93-12, § 1, 3-11-1993; Ord. No. 99-013, § 2, 8-12-1999; Ord. No. 99-019,
10-14-1999; Ord. No. 02-005, 2-28-2002; Ord. No. 02-016, 6-13-2002)
   State law reference(s)--Power to require connections, G.S. 160A-317.
Sec. 36-75. Single source of water supply.
   (a)   No water service connection shall be made from any town water main to
any premises supplied with water from any other source without written
permission first obtained from the town manager. No such statement of
permission shall vest any right of continuation thereof, and the permission may
be revoked and terminated at any time by the town manager. No water service
connection shall be made or permitted to serve more than one premises, and no
water line connection shall be made or used to carry town water from any
premises so served to any other premises.
   (b)   If for any reason any premises are supplied with town water from two
or more water service connections to town water mains located on different
streets, each service connection shall be provided with a check valve of a type
approved by the town manager.
(Code 1976, § 17-7; Code 1982, § 19-39)
Sec. 36-76. Separate meters.
   (a)   Every new irrigation system installation shall be separately connected
to an irrigation meter. Every existing commercial or multi-family residential
irrigation system shall be taken off of regular water meters and connected to a
separate irrigation meter within 18 months of the effective date of the
ordinance from which this section is derived.
   (b)   Waivers from this "separate meter" requirement for existing
nonresidential irrigation systems may be granted by the director of utilities
("director") within 18 months after the effective date of the ordinance from
which this section is derived, if:
   (1)   The cost of modification for the separate irrigation meter will exceed
the greater of:
      a.   Twelve hundred dollars; or
      b.   Twenty percent of the initial installation cost for the irrigation
system, plus all improvements; and
   (2)   The customer enters into a written agreement with the town to
establish a site-specific water allocation for irrigation.
   (c)   If the customer ever exceeds the site-specific water allocation
assigned to him, then the waiver shall lapse and the customer shall be required
to install a separate irrigation meter. The director shall establish the
procedures for the documentation necessary for establishing such situations.
(Code 1976, § 17-9; Code 1982, § 19-40; Ord. No. 02-025, 11-21-2002; Ord. No.
2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019; Ord. No. 2022-Code-01, 4-28-2022)
Sec. 36-77. Sale of water from public works facility and hydrants.
   Water may be purchased from the town at designated facilities or from any
fire hydrant under the following conditions:
   (1)   The charge for such water shall be at the rate established in the
annual operating budget ordinance.
   (2)   When water is obtained through a fire hydrant only town employees may
turn on or off the fire hydrant.
   (3)   The fire hydrant shall have a hydrant meter and RPZ backflow preventer
properly attached to register the amount of water being purchased. Only town
employees shall attach or detach the hydrant meter.
   (4)   The charge of the use of a hydrant meter and accessory equipment shall
be as established in the annual operating budget ordinance.
   (5)   The finance department shall establish rules for the use of hydrant
meters and accessory equipment, hours of operation, etc., as may be necessary.
   (6)   Reclaimed water may only be purchased, when available, at the water
reclamation facilities during hours established by the town's finance
department.
(Code 1982, § 19-41; Ord. No. 76-37, § 1, 10-14-1976; Ord. No. 85-26, § 1, 8-
22-1985; Ord. No. 87-13, § 3, 3-12-1987; Ord. No. 99-013, § 2, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-78. Cross connection control, backflow prevention assemblies required,
program established.
   (a)   Application, purpose, authorization. This section applies to all
persons who use, or connect in any way to, the Town of Cary’s public water
system. The purpose of this section is to protect the health and safety of the
public by protecting the public water system from contaminants"backflowing"
into the public water system from private water systems. This section:
   (1)   Requires the installation of backflow prevention assemblies to prevent
contaminants from “backflowing” or siphoning through uncontrolled cross
connections into the public water system; and
   (2)   Establishing a backflow prevention program.
   (b)   Definitions. As used in this article, the following definitions apply:
   (1)   Backflow prevention assembly or BPA means a device used to prevent
backflow into the public water system from a consumer’s water service
connection. The type of BPA required by this section depends on the degree of
contamination hazard. An "approved" BPA is one that has been approved by the
American Society of Sanitary Engineers (ASSE) or the American Water Works
Association (AWWA), or USC, or the Foundation for Cross Connection Control and
Hydraulic Research.
   (2)   Certified Backflow prevention assembly technician or technician means
any person who has received from the town a certificate to install, test,
repair, overhaul, or maintain approved backflow prevention assemblies. A
backflow prevention assembly technician certificate will be issued to any
person who:
      a.   Demonstrates knowledge of applicable laws, rules, and regulations
applying to BPAs in the state of North Carolina and in the town, and
      b.   Is a licensed plumber or has at least two years experience under and
is employed by a North Carolina licensed plumber or plumbing contractor, or has
equivalent qualifications acceptable to the town, and
      c.   Holds a certificate of completion from an approved training program
in the installation, testing, repair, overhaul and maintenance of backflow
prevention assemblies.
   (3)   Consumer means any customer of the town's public water system, or any
person, firm, or entity using or receiving water from the town's public water
system or owning or possessing property or facilities that receive water from,
or connect to the town's public water system.
   (4)   Contamination hazard means an existing or potential cross connection
that presents the risk of impairment of the quality of the water in the public
water system and creates a potential or actual hazard to the public health
through the introduction of hazardous or toxic substances or waterborne health
hazards in the form of physical or chemical contaminants or biological
organisms and pathogens.
   (5)   Cross connection means any unprotected actual or potential connection
or structural arrangement between the town's public water system and any other
pipe, conduit, source or system through which it is possible to introduce any
contamination other than the intended potable water with which the system is
supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper connections, removable sections, swivel
or changeover devices, and other temporary or permanent devices or arrangements
through which or because of which backflow can or may occur are considered to
be cross connections.
   (6)   Degree of hazard means whether the hazard or potential hazard is a
health hazard, or a non-health hazard. The degree of hazard shall be determined
by the town from the evaluation of conditions within a private water system and
the use to which a property connected to public system is put.
   (7)   Health hazard means an actual or potential threat of contamination of
a physical, chemical, biological, pathogenic or toxic nature to the public or
private water system to such a degree or intensity that there would be a danger
to health. Examples of waterborne hazards include, but are not limited to:
      a.   Physical: Radioisotopes/radionuclides;
      b.   Chemical: Lead, mercury and other heavy metals, organic compounds,
other toxins and hazardous substances;
      c.   Biological: Microorganisms and pathogens like cryptosporidium,
typhoid, cholera and E. Coli.
   (8)   Imminent Hazard means a hazard situation that is likely to cause an
immediate threat to human life, an immediate threat of serious physical injury,
an immediate threat of serious adverse health effects, or a serious risk of
irreparable damage to the environment if no immediate action is taken.
   (9)   Non-health Hazard means an actual or potential threat to the quality
of water of the public water system or a private water system. A non-health
hazard is one that, if introduced into the public water supply system, could be
a nuisance to water users, but would not adversely affect human health.
   (10)   Private water system means that part of a water service connection to
the town's public water system which is located on the consumer's side of the
town's water meter. A private water system may be a water service line to a
single premise or structure or it may be a privately owned and maintained water
distribution system, which serves more than one structure or premises. For the
purpose of this section, once water from the town's public water system passes
through the meter to the consumer’s side, that water is considered part of the
private water system.
   (11)   Public water system means the town of Cary water system and includes
all of the system for the provision to the public of potable water for human
consumption through pipes or other constructed conveyances and includes:
      a.   Any collection, treatment, storage or distribution facility and all
appurtenance to those facilities under control of the town and used primarily
in connection with the town's water system; and
      b.   Any collection, treatment, storage or distribution facility and all
appurtenance to those facilities not under the control of the town that is used
primarily in connection with the town's water system.
   (c)   New unprotected cross-connections prohibited, existing cross-
connections to be protected. All consumers and any other person or entity
receiving water from the town's public water system shall be in violation of
this section if they fail to comply with any of the following:
   (1)   New water service connections. No new residential or nonresidential
water service connections to the public water system shall be made unless
equipped with an approved backflow prevention assembly. The BPA shall be tested
and properly functioning as prescribed herein prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for any building. All new nonresidential construction
plans and specifications shall be made available to the town for review to
determine the hazard level to the town's public water system.
   (2)   Existing water service connections. An approved backflow prevention
assembly shall be installed on all existing cross connections to the town's
public water system upon notification of the need for installation by the town.
Upon determining that a backflow prevention assembly is required to be
installed on an existing water service connection the town will notify the
consumer in writing of:
      a.   The requirement for installation;
      b.   The hazard level which has been established for that consumer by the
town based upon the use of their premises;
      c.   The type of approved backflow prevention assembly required;
      d.   The date by which it must be installed and tested. The consumer will
have sixty (60)
calendar days within which to install and test the BPA after notice is given.
   (d)   Contamination prohibited. No consumer shall cause or allow any
contamination of the town's public water system through uncontrolled backflow
or backsiphonage from or through their private water system.
   (e)   No cross-connections. No private water system may be connected to any
private well, or to any spring, or to any other water source not approved by
the state of North Carolina as a public water supply and commissioned by the
town as a public water supply source, or to any other private source of water,
or to any plumbing located on private property which may be connected to any of
the above. It shall also be unlawful to have plumbing cross-connected or so
installed that water from the town's public water system and water from or in
any private water system may in any way become intermingled.
   (f)   Compliance. No private water system shall be connected in any manner
to the town's public water system nor may any service connection be made or
maintained to the town's public water system unless the requirements of this
Chapter have been satisfied.
   (g)   Approved BPAs and installations required. Only an approved backflow
prevention assembly shall be installed to meet the requirements of this
section. Any backflow prevention assembly that is installed that is not an
approved BPA, or any installation of any backflow prevention assembly which is
not installed in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be a violation of
this section.
   (h)   Notification of change in use of property. Within ten (10) calendar
days of the date of any change in use of any nonresidential property connected
to the town's public water system, the consumer shall notify the town so that
the town can reassess the hazard level of that use.
   (i)   Certification and testing program.
   (1)   Installation, maintenance, testing and repair of BPAs shall be done
only by a certified backflow prevention assembly technician. Consumers shall
have a technician test the BPA for proper operation and that technician shall
certify the results in writing to the town.
   (2)   Any consumer or other person who removes or repairs any cross-
connection condition shall notify the town for the purpose of securing an
inspection or re-inspection by the town.
   (3)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this section shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
   (4)   All backflow prevention assemblies required by this section must be
installed and maintained on the consumer's premises as part of the consumer's
water system.
   (5)   Ownership, installation, testing and maintenance of a backflow
prevention assembly and all costs associated therewith shall be the
responsibility of the consumer.
   (6)   Each backflow prevention assembly required under this section must be
accessible by the town.
   (7)   Any bypass around a backflow prevention assembly at any time,
including when the BPA is in need of testing, repair or replacement, is
prohibited. When it is not possible to interrupt water service, the consumer
shall provide for the parallel installation of an approved backflow prevention
assembly.
   (8)   Backflow prevention assemblies with test ports or test cocks shall not
be installed below ground.
   (j)   Testing and repair of backflow prevention assemblies.
   (1)   Testing/Certification. A certified backflow prevention assembly
technician shall conduct testing of backflow prevention assemblies at the
consumer's expense. Tests shall be conducted upon installation, and annually
thereafter, with a record of all testing and repairs retained by the consumer.
Each consumer shall send a copy of the report, signed by the certified backflow
prevention assembly technician, for each test or repair to the town within 30
days after the completion of each test or repair. Such records must also be
maintained by the consumer on forms provided by the town for a period of three
years.
   (2)   Repairs. Any time that repairs to a backflow prevention assembly are
deemed necessary, whether through annual testing or routine inspection by the
consumer or by the town, these repairs must be completed within a time
specified below, in accordance with the hazard level.
      a.   Health hazard facilities: Within 14 days of discovery.
      b.   Nonhealth hazard facilities: Within 28 days of discovery.
   (3)   Equipment. All certified backflow prevention assembly technicians must
obtain and employ backflow prevention assembly test equipment which has been
evaluated and/or approved by the town. All test equipment shall be registered
with the town and shall be calibrated annually, and certified to the town as to
such calibration, employing a calibration method acceptable to the town.
   (4)   Records. It is unlawful for any consumer or certified backflow
prevention assembly technician to submit any record to the town which is false
or fraudulent in any material respect. It is unlawful for any consumer or
certified backflow prevention assembly technician to fail to submit any record,
which is required by this section to the town. Such violations may result in
any of the enforcement actions outlined in paragraph (m) of this section.
   (k)   Protection of the public water system during bulk water sales. No bulk
water may be taken except as a sale from a fire hydrant through a metered
assembly provided by the town which includes a reduced pressure principle
backflow prevention assembly. In addition, any truck, tank, or receiving vessel
which is directly or indirectly connected to any pipe, hose, or outlet from the
town's public water system must be equipped with an approved, permanently
installed, air gap designed to create a minimum of 4 inches separation between
the receiving tank or vessel and the connection to the town's public water
system.
   (l)   Backflow prevention assembly protection. Any backflow prevention
assembly which might be subjected to pressure surges or abnormally high
pressures shall be protected against possible damage by a device approved by
the town, such as a water hammer arrestor or a pressure reducing valve.
   (m)   Violations. Any consumer or other person who fails to comply with any
provision of this section, or who fails to comply with any notice, citation, or
order made hereunder, or who shall install or alter a private water system in
violation of this section or any detailed statement of specifications or plans
submitted and approved hereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
hereunder, or who shall fail to comply with such a notice, citation, or order
within the time fixed therein, or who shall submit a false or fraudulent
report, or who fails to submit a report shall be in violation of this section
for each such occurrence or noncompliance and shall be subject to enforcement
as provided in this section. The remedies provided for violations of this
section, whether civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in addition to any
other remedy provided by law, and may be exercised in any order.
   (1)   The Public Works Director or designee shall serve a written notice of
violation to any person who violates this section. Such notice shall be
personally delivered, or delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested.
A copy of the notice may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed
sufficient if the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, and the
regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten (10) days after the
mailing.
   (2)   Such notice of violation shall set forth the violation and the time
period within which the violation must be corrected. The violation must be
corrected within the time period specified in the notice of violation. If the
town determines that the violation has created or contributed to the existence
of an imminent health hazard, the consumer may be required to correct the
violation immediately. If the violation is cured or corrected within the time
period specified in the notice of violation, then the Town shall take no
further action against the person.
   (3)   Any person who, after being given a notice of violation pursuant to
Section
36-78(m)(1) does not comply within the time period set forth in the notice of
violation, and who continues such violation, shall be subject to the penalties
and remedies set forth in Section
36-78(m)(4). The following citation procedure shall be used:
      (A)   Citation for Violation. The Public Works Director or designee shall
serve a written citation on the alleged violator by any of the methods
specified in Section
36-78(m)(1).
      (B)   Content of Citation. The citation shall again describe the nature
of the violation and any actions that the alleged violator must take to cure or
correct the violation, and shall specify the amount of any civil penalty levied
against the alleged violator.
      (C)   Corrective Action Required. The civil penalty shall be paid and the
violation shall be cured or corrected, within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt
of the citation by the alleged violator, or such other time period, not to
exceed thirty (30) days, as the citation may specify.
      (D)   Action for Recovery of Penalty. If payment is not made, or the
violation is not cured or corrected, within the time specified in the citation,
then the Town may recover the civil penalty together with all costs by filing
one or more civil actions in the name of the Town in the nature of a suit to
collect a debt. The town attorney is hereby authorized to file suit on behalf
of the town to collect any civil penalties.
      (E)   Suspension or Termination of Water Service; Revocation of Permits.
Water service may be suspended or terminated to a consumer, and/or applicable
permits revoked, if the consumer fails to correct a violation in a timely
manner. Suspension or termination of water service or revocation of permits
will be without prejudice to the town's ability to assert any other remedy
available to the town against the consumer or any other person responsible for
the violation.
   (4)   Violations of this Section
36-78 shall subject the offender to the following civil penalties:
 
Description                                                                     Penalty Frequency
                                                                                        With first
                                                                                        citation
                                                                                        and
Unprotected cross connection – wholesale customers (as defined in Section 36-         thereafter
11)                                                                                     for each
or                                                                              $1,000  thirty-day
Unprotected cross connection – public water system not under the control of the       period or
town                                                                                    part
                                                                                        thereof in
                                                                                        which the
                                                                                        violation
                                                                                        persists
                                                                                        With first
                                                                                        citation
                                                                                        and
                                                                                        thereafter
                                                                                        for each
Unprotected cross connection – non-wholesale customers                        $500    thirty-day
                                                                                        period or
                                                                                        part
                                                                                        thereof in
                                                                                        which the
                                                                                        violation
                                                                                        persists
Falsifying records                                                              $500    Per
                                                                                        occurrence
                                                                                        With first
                                                                                        citation
                                                                                        and
                                                                                        thereafter
                                                                                        for each
Failing to maintain and test residential irrigation backflow prevention         $500    thirty-day
assemblies                                                                              period or
                                                                                        part
                                                                                        thereof in
                                                                                        which the
                                                                                        violation
                                                                                        persists
Any other violation of this section                                             $500    Per
                                                                                        occurrence
 
   (5)   The town may increase any civil penalty assessed by 50 percent of the
maximum civil penalty associated with the violation for a second violation of
the same provision within a two-year period. The town may increase any civil
penalty by doubling the amount of the penalty for a third violation of the same
provision within a two-year period. Water service may be terminated after a
third violation of the same provision within a two-year period.
   (6)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall pay to the
town all expenses incurred by the town in repairing any damage to the public
water system caused in whole or in part by such violation and any expense
incurred by the town in investigating such violation. All such expenses shall
be in addition to the civil penalty assessed with the violation.
   (7)   The application of civil penalties shall not be held to prevent the
enforced correction or removal of any prohibited condition.
   (8)   If a certified backflow prevention assembly technician submits
falsified records to the town, the town may permanently revoke that certified
backflow prevention assembly technician's town issued certification.
   (n)   Administration of program. The Public Works Director for the town, or
designee, shall administer this program.
(Code 1982, § 19-42; Ord. No. 03-014, 11-13-2003; Ord. No. 2018-Code-01, 4-5-
2018)
   State law reference(s)--Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Sec. 36-79. Turning on water without authority.
   No person shall turn on the water from the town water mains into a meter or
private connection, which connection has been cut off by the town for the
nonpayment of water bill or other justified reason, without authority of the
town.
(Code 1976, § 17-13; Code 1982, § 19-43)
Sec. 36-80. Water service provided by town includes only alternate day outdoor
irrigation.
   (a)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms are defined
as follows:
   Irrigate the landscape, irrigation of the landscape, and irrigation means
the act of applying water to the outdoor landscape by any means involving
sprinklers or automatic watering devices, including but not limited to the use
of sprinklers attached to hoses, and installed underground sprinkler systems.
   Landscape means the natural or modified ground outside the border of the
foundation wall of the constructed area of the property.
   Person means user of the town's potable water system.
   Reclaimed or reused water means the treated plant effluent from a wastewater
treatment facility that is further disinfected and piped or distributed in bulk
form.
   (b)   Irrigation of landscape prohibited except in accordance with this
section. No person shall use potable water supplied by the town water system to
irrigate the landscape on any property except on alternate days assigned to
that property for irrigating the landscape. The days of the week on which
irrigation of the landscape can take place at a particular property shall be
determined by that property's street address. The Town Manager or designee
shall develop a Standard Procedure setting forth irrigation days for the
various street addresses and other details of alternate day watering. Such
Standard Procedure shall be developed, maintained and amended as needed to keep
the irrigation days and administration procedures consistent with
recommendations from area experts such as the North Carolina Agricultural
Extension Service and technological advances. The use of "reclaimed" or
"reused" water, pond water, rainwater and well water or other nonpotable water
is not governed by this section, nor is the watering of plant material and
lawns by use of drip irrigation, watering cans, hand-held hoses, and other
hand-held watering tools.
   (c)   Violations. Each day a violation occurs is a separate violation. Any
person violating this section may be cited for each day on which a violation
occurs.
   (d)   Penalties. Penalties for violation of this section are as set forth
herein. The town may use any one, or combination, of penalties and enforcement
mechanisms. Imposition of one or more penalties for any violation shall not
excuse any violation or permit it to continue.
   (1)   Civil penalties. After the second notice a violation of this section
shall subject the violator to a civil penalty as set forth in the town budget
fee schedule. Violators shall be issued a written citation that must be paid
within two weeks of the service date of the citation. The citation may be
served by personal delivery or by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested. The citation shall describe the violation and shall specify the
amount of the civil penalty levied. The civil penalty is collectible in a civil
action in the nature of debt. The town attorney, or designee, is authorized to
file suit on behalf of the town to collect any unpaid citations, and the town
manager, the town utilities director, or their designee, is authorized to
verify and sign complaints on behalf of the town in such suits. The director of
utilities or designee, a police officer, or other town employee duly authorized
to enforce the alternate day watering service level may issue a citation for
violations of this section.
   (2)   Criminal penalties. In addition to or in lieu of civil penalties,
violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. A police officer may
initiate the criminal process as provided by law.
   (e)   Emergency suspension of service. The town manager may restrict or
suspend water flow (water service) to any person who violates this section if
the manager makes a water shortage declaration and/or that person has failed to
comply on numerous occasions. The manager or designee shall make findings of
fact to indicate the nature of the water emergency and the actions of that
person that exacerbate the emergency situation. The manager may order:
   (1)   That such water uses as irrigation of the landscape be suspended
entirely for a specified period of time;
   (2)   That water flow to that person be restricted; or
   (3)   That water service to that person be suspended for a specified period
of time.
Suspension of water service shall be performed in accordance with the town's
ordinances, policies, procedures and practices. In the event that the manager
orders that irrigation of the landscape be suspended for a specified period of
time, the manager or designee shall have the right and privilege to access, on
private property if necessary, all necessary valves and flow restriction
devices to isolate the flow of water to the irrigation system. The manager, or
designee, shall also have the right and privilege of access specified above to
disconnect water service at the meter, if the manager has ordered that water
service be suspended for a specified period of time. The standard reconnection
charge shall be paid for the reconnection of any water service terminated at
the meter pursuant to the current town ordinances and procedures.
   (f)   Exceptions.
   (1)   The Town Manager or designee may grant temporary exceptions permits to
the provisions of this section
36-80 for periods of up to 45 days for the establishment of new turf year-round
or for the re-establishment of turf seasonally. Such temporary exception
permits shall be granted based upon the valid application of a customer. The
exception permit application process and other details as may be necessary to
further define and implement temporary exception permits will be defined in the
Standard Procedure referenced in Sec.
36-80(b). Such Standard Procedure shall be developed, maintained and amended as
needed to keep the conditions under which exception permits are granted
consistent with recommendations from area experts such as the North Carolina
Agricultural Extension Service and technological advances.
(Code 1982, § 19-44; Ord. No. 00-009, 4-13-2000; Ord. No. 02-012, 4-24-2002;
Ord. No. 2007-05, § 1, 5-10-2007; Ord. No. 2008-Code-01, 6-12-2008; Ord. No.
2009-Code-07, 5-14-2009; Ord. No. 2010-Code-04, 6-9-2010; Ord. No. 2019-Code-
04, 10-10-2019)
   State law reference(s)--Penalties for ordinance violations, G.S. 14-4, 160A-
175.
Sec. 36-81. Water shortage response.
   (a)   Purpose and intent. This section
36-81 is designed to maintain and protect the public health, safety and welfare
by providing a process for reducing demand for potable water to protect the
potable water resources of the town during actual or potential water shortages.
This section identifies types of water shortages and authorizes the manager to
issue a water shortage declaration and to execute the Town's Water Shortage
Response Plan (WSRP). This section shall be liberally construed to implement
such purpose and intent.
   (b)   Definitions. The following definitions apply, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   (1)   Customer means any person in whose name the town maintains an account
for water use, or who is responsible for payment of water passing through a
particular meter. All customers are responsible for any use of water that
passes through the meter for which they have an account or are otherwise
responsible and are deemed to be users hereunder.
   (2)   Manager means the Town Manager for the Town of Cary or designee, or,
in the absence of the Town Manager, the Deputy Town Manager, the Assistant Town
Manager or designee.
   (3)   Nonresidential user means any person who uses town potable water,
other than a residential user; nonresidential user includes those who purchase
town water in bulk.
   (4)   Person has the definition found in section
1-2 of this Code and includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
   (5)   Potable water or treated water means any treated water introduced by
the town into its potable water distribution system, including water purchased
from other entities.
   (6)   Raw water means all water available to the town for treatment by
virtue of the town's water rights or withdrawal permits.
   (7)   Residential user means any person who uses town water received through
a meter serving a single unit, duplex, or multifamily dwelling unit, but not a
meter serving educational or other institutions, hotels, motels, or similar
commercial establishments (which are deemed to be 'nonresidential users').
   (8)   Trigger means conditions defined in the WSRP which will cause a water
shortage to be declared or ended, or cause water shortage response stages to be
increased or decreased in severity.
   (9)   User means any person using town potable water, and includes
residential users and nonresidential users.
   (10)   Water shortage means a shortage of potable water in the town due to a
raw water shortage, a water system shortage or any other water shortage.
      "Raw water shortage" means a shortage of raw water available for the town
to treat. Raw water shortages are most commonly caused by drought conditions,
but may have other causes, including problems with the raw water intake or
pipes.
      "Water system shortage" means a shortage of potable water in the town due
to problems with the town's water treatment or distribution system or affecting
the town's ability to treat, transmit or store treated water.
      "Other water shortage" means a shortage of potable water in the town due
to causes other than raw water shortage or water system shortage, including any
declaration of emergency or call for water use restrictions by state or federal
agencies or any unforeseen circumstance such as contamination which may or does
result in treated water supply not meeting normal water demand.
   (11)   Water Shortage Response Plan (WSRP) means a plan to respond to an
actual or threatened water shortage, approved as required by N.C.G.S. Section
143-355.2.
   (c)   Water Shortage Response Plan. The town director of utilities
("director") is hereby authorized to prepare a Water_Shortage_Response_Plan
(WSRP) to be reviewed and approved in accordance with N.C.G.S. Section 143-
355.2. The water conservation measures contained in the WSRP may be more
stringent than the minimum water conservation measures required by N.C.G.S.
Section 143-355.2. The WSRP, and any amendments to it, shall be adopted by the
Town Council.
   (d)   Authorization. The manager is hereby authorized to implement the water
shortage measures in the WSRP and to provide such other conditions and
provisions as may be necessary to successfully carry out the goals of this
section.
   (e)   Water shortage rates. Upon issuance of a water shortage declaration or
at such other times as the council deems necessary, the council may, at any
regular, special or emergency meeting, adopt water shortage rates designed to
encourage water use reduction. Further, due to situations brought on by drought
or other special infrastructure needs associated with a water emergency, the
town council may adopt special rates that will reflect the additional costs
associated with treatment and distribution of water. Any such rates may take
effect as directed by council.
   (f)   Application, violation, enforcement, penalties. This section applies
to all persons using town water, inside and outside the town limits, regardless
of whether they have a contract for water service with the town, provided
mandatory schedules or limits shall not apply to any public or volunteer fire
department while fighting a fire. A customer of the town shall be responsible
for all violations that occur in connection with water that passes through the
meter for which the customer is billed by the town. Any person who uses water
in violation of a restriction, schedule, or ban imposed on the use of water
during a declared water shortage as defined in the Water Shortage Response
Plan, or who otherwise violates the provisions of this section, or who impedes
or interferes with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this section
and policies adopted hereunder, shall be subject to the penalties listed below:
   (1)   Enforcement by police officers. Upon the declaration of a water
shortage, the manager and every police officer of the town may enforce any
restrictions or bans imposed on the use of water.
   (2)   Suspicion of violation. Whenever the town has reasonable cause to
believe that a person is violating any of the provisions of this section or any
policy or declaration adopted hereunder, the town shall immediately notify that
person of the violation by affixing a written notice of the violation to the
property where the violation occurred and/or personally delivering or mailing
such notice to the customer of record and to any other person known to the town
who is responsible for the violation or its correction. Such notice shall
describe the violation, order that it be corrected, cured or abated
immediately, and warn that more severe measures, such as civil penalties,
criminal charges or termination of water service may be brought, assessed or
imposed. If the order is not complied with immediately, the manager may
undertake enforcement action as follows.
   (3)   Enforcement action. Any person who, after being given notice of
violation, does not comply with this section or policy adopted hereunder
immediately shall, at the option of the town, be subject to any of the
following: Civil penalties, criminal penalties, termination of water service,
injunctive relief, or any appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      a.   Criminal penalties. Any person may be charged with violation of this
section or policy adopted hereunder and prosecuted in district court. Any
person so charged and found guilty of violating this section or policy shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate
offense. The penalty for violation shall be a maximum fine of $50.00 per
occurrence. The imposition of one or more penalties for any violation shall not
excuse any violation or permit it to continue.
      b.   Civil penalties. In addition to or in lieu of criminal prosecution,
violation of this section or any policy adopted hereunder may subject the
violator or customer to a civil penalty as set forth in the town budget fee
schedule per violation per day for so long as the violation exists. Each day on
which a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation. The town shall serve a written citation on the violator, and the
customer, if different, by personal delivery or by certified or registered
mail, return receipt requested. The citation shall describe the violation and
shall specify the amount of the civil penalty levied. The civil penalty for a
first violation of this section shall be deferred and either (1) waived if
there has been no subsequent violation of this section during the declared
water shortage; or (2) will become due immediately if a subsequent violation of
this section occurs during the declared water shortage, in which case it will
be assessed in addition to the civil penalty imposed for any subsequent
violations. The civil penalty is collectible in a civil action in the nature of
debt. The imposition of one or more penalties for a violation shall not excuse
any violation or permit it to continue.
      c.   Termination of service. A third violation of this section shall
result in termination of service. The standard reconnection charge shall be
paid for the reconnection of any water service terminated pursuant to the
current town ordinances and procedures.
   (4)   Appeal. Any person against whom enforcement action has been taken,
hereafter referred to as "aggrieved party," may seek judicial review of the
action by filing a written petition within 30 days of the date of the notice of
violation, but not thereafter.
   (5)   Variance. Any person may submit an application to the utilities
director for a variance from specific requirements of the WSRP, using the
process defined in the WSRP.
(Code 1982, § 19-45; Ord. No. 95-020, 6-8-1995; Ord. No. 96-006, § 1, 7-11-
1996; Ord. No. 2007-05, § 2, 5-10-2007; Ord. No. 2008-Code-01, 6-12-2008; Ord.
No. 2009-Code-08, 6-10-2009; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019; Ord. No. 2022-
Code-01, 4-28-2022)
Sec. 36-82. Installation of meters.
   (a)   Time of installation. Water meters will be installed as soon after the
issuance of the building permit as is practical for the town.
   (b)   Installation and ownership. The town shall install and retain
ownership of all water meters, which are connected directly to a town
maintained water line.
   (c)   Responsibility for meter and water usage. The person or firm to which
the building permit is issued shall be responsible for both the meter and the
water usage through the meter until such time as a certificate of occupancy is
issued.
   (d)   Lost, stolen, or damaged meters. The person or firm to which the
building permit is issued shall be responsible for purchasing from the town a
replacement meter in case the original meter is lost, stolen, or damaged. The
cost of such replacement shall be the actual cost of the meter plus 20 percent
for administrative and installation cost. The town shall not issue a
certificate of occupancy until such time as all such replacement charges have
been paid in full and a fully operational meter of the correct size and type is
in place at the location for which the certificate of occupancy is requested.
   (e)   Water usage through the meter. The person or firm to which the
building permit is issued shall be responsible for the utility payment for all
water usage through the meter. The cost of such usage shall be at the same rate
as all other customers as established in the annual operating budget of the
town. The town may issue a certificate of occupancy before the utility bill is
paid; however, the person or firm to which the building permit was issued may
not establish any other utility account with the town until such utility bill
is paid in full.
   (f)   Penalties for violations.
   (1)   Civil.
      a.   Any violation of this section shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty in the amount of $1,000.00, to be recovered by the town in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within
the prescribed period of time after he has been cited for violation.
      b.   The offender shall be issued a written citation by delivery in
person or mailed by certified or registered mail. The civil penalty must be
paid within 72 hours of receipt of written citation by the offender.
   (2)   Criminal. In addition to, or in lieu of, the remedies authorized in
subsection (e)(1) above, any violation of this section may be prosecuted as a
criminal matter.
(Code 1982, § 19-46; Ord. No. 84-24, § 1, 12-13-1984; Ord. No. 01-005, 4-12-
2001)
   State law reference(s)--Penalties for ordinance violations, G.S. 14-4, 160A-
175.
Sec. 36-83. Water waste.
   (a)   Definitions. The following terms, when used in this section, shall
have the meanings ascribed herein:
   Impervious surface means any artificially created surface which cannot be
penetrated by water or which causes water to run off the surface, including
streets, driveways, sidewalks and rooftops.
   Person means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, limited
liability company, or other legal entity in whose name water is provided and
billed by the town.
   Repeated or flagrant wasting of water means and includes those situations
where persons who have received notice that they are wasting water continue to
do so in the same manner. It does not mean those persons who waste water on
solitary or isolated occasions.
   Town water means all water that passes through the town's water distribution
system. This term does not include town water that is sold by the town to other
governmental entities.
   Water waste means any of the following:
   (1)   Using town water so that it falls directly onto impervious surfaces to
the extent that running water leaves the property and enters gutters, storm
drains, ditches and other conveyances; or
   (2)   Using town water to the extent that it is allowed to accumulate on the
surface of the ground and leave the property and enter gutters, storm drains,
ditches and other conveyances.
   (3)   Knowingly allow town water to escape through leaks, breaks, or
malfunctions within the water user's plumbing or distribution system for any
period of time beyond which such a leak or break should reasonably have been
repaired or corrected.
   (4)   Willfully or negligently wasting water in any other manner.
   (b)   Water waste prohibited.
   (1)   The utilities director or designee shall identify persons who waste
water.
   (2)   Whenever the director finds that any person wastes water, the director
may give such person oral or written notice of that fact, with recommendations
as to how the wasting of water can be eliminated. Such recommendations might
include, but are not limited to, redirection of sprinkler heads, resetting of
system timers, addition of devices to prevent water pressure fluctuations, or
changes in location of sprinkler systems.
   (3)   Whenever the director finds that any person repeatedly or flagrantly
wastes water, the director may serve upon such person a written notice ("notice
of water waste" or "notice"). Such notice shall be served by personal delivery,
by mail, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall identify the
person and the location at which water is being wasted while watering, shall
identify the manner in which the water is being wasted, and shall specify a
time within which the wasting of water shall cease. The notice shall also warn
that more severe measures (such as imposition of civil penalties or restriction
or termination of water service) may be assessed or brought against the person
unless the wasting of water ceases within the time provided. The time given to
cease wasting water may range from a requirement for immediate compliance to 30
days, depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case. For instance, if
a remedy involves moving a portable hose or sprinkler, immediate compliance may
be appropriate; if a remedy involves repairing or replacing a sprinkler head,
several days may be required; if the remedy involves more extensive or
expensive work, up to 30 days may be necessary. If the remedy is effected,
there shall be no further action against that person as to that particular
violation.
   (4)   Any person who continues to waste water after the period of time
specified in the notice for ceasing such activity shall be issued a citation by
personal delivery, mail, or certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall
be subject to the civil penalty and enforcement procedures specified in
subsection (c) below. The civil penalty shall be paid within 30 days of receipt
of the citation.
   (c)   Penalties.
   (1)   Civil penalties. Violations of this section shall subject the offender
to a civil penalty as set forth in the town budget fee schedule, to be
recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender
does not pay the penalty within the prescribed period of time after he or she
has been cited. Because watering may not take place every day, a violation
shall be deemed continuing if the same wasting of water takes place on one or
more days at the same location described in the notice and citation.
   (2)   Other enforcement action. Additionally, the director may restrict or
terminate water service in accordance with law.
(Code 1982, § 19-47; Ord. No. 97-027, 6-12-1997; Ord. No. 2008-Code-01, 6-12-
2008; Ord. No. 2009-Code-07, 5-14-2009)
   State law reference(s)—Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Sec. 36-84. Rain sensors on automatic irrigation systems.
   (a)   Definitions. The following terms, when used in this section, shall
have the meanings indicated below. Other terms used herein shall have the same
definitions as provided in section
36-83.
   Irrigation system means a device or combination of devices having a hose,
pipe, or other conduit installed in the landscape which transmits town water,
through which device or combination of devices town water or a mixture of town
water and chemicals is drawn and applied to residential or commercial lawns,
landscapes or greenspace.
   Rain sensor means an automatic device that will override the irrigation
cycle of an irrigation system, thus turning it off, when a predetermined amount
of rain has fallen. To meet the requirements of this section, a rain sensor
shall be adjusted to shut off irrigation systems when up to one-fourth inch of
rain has fallen.
   (b)   Required installation.
   (1)   New installation. From and after August 14, 1997, rain sensors shall
be required on all automatic irrigation systems that will receive town water.
   (2)   Existing systems. Rain sensors shall be installed on all existing
automatic irrigation systems that receive town water on or before May 1, 1998.
   (c)   Required maintenance. All rain sensors shall be adjusted and set so
that they automatically shut off the irrigation system after not more than one-
fourth inch of rainfall has occurred. All rain sensors shall be installed
according to manufacturer's instructions in a location that will provide full
exposure to rainfall such that accuracy of operation is assured and shall be
maintained in good working condition. No person shall, with the intent of
circumventing the purpose of this section, adjust either the rain sensor or
irrigation system so that the rain sensor is not able to override and turn off
the irrigation system after one-fourth inch of rain has fallen.
   (d)   Enforcement. The utilities director or designee shall be responsible
for enforcing this section. Whenever the director determines that a violation
of this section exists, the director shall issue a written citation identifying
the date, location and nature of the violation, the person cited, and
specifying the penalty and the date by which the penalty must be paid.
   (e)   Penalties.
   (1)   Civil penalties. After the second notice any person who violates any
provision of this section shall be subject to a civil penalty as set forth in
the town budget fee schedule for each day thereafter that the violation
continues, to be recovered by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt
if the offender does not pay the penalty within 30 days after he or she has
been cited. Because watering may not take place every day, a violation shall be
deemed continuing if an irrigation system that was previously the subject of a
citation has the same violation on more than one day.
   (2)   Termination of service. Additionally, the utilities director may
restrict or terminate water service in accordance with law.
(Code 1982, § 19-48; Ord. No. 97-032, 8-14-1997; Ord. No. 2007-05, § 3, 5-10-
2007; Ord. No. 2008-Code-01, 6-12-2008)
   State law reference(s)--Civil penalties, G.S. 160A-175(c).
Secs. 36-85--36-111. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. SERVICE OUTSIDE OF TOWN
Sec. 36-112. Availability of water supply.
   The town manager is authorized to sell water to persons residing outside the
corporate limits of the town and to connect the water lines of such persons to
public water lines of the town so long as available water supplies of the town
permit such sales (as the manager in his discretion may determine), but such
sales shall be subject to the provisions set forth in this division.
(Code 1976, § 17-31; Code 1982, § 19-57)
Sec. 36-113. Rates.
   The rates for the sale of water and sewerage services to consumers residing
outside the corporate limits of the town shall be as set forth in section
36-8.
(Code 1976, § 17-32; Code 1982, § 19-58)
Sec. 36-114. Disclaimer of liability.
   The town shall not be liable to any of the consumers residing outside the
corporate limits of the town for damages caused by failure of the town to
supply water in any quantity or at any pressure or for damages to any of such
consumers caused by too great pressure of water supplied.
(Code 1976, § 17-35; Code 1982, § 19-59)
   State law reference(s)--Disclaimer of liability, G.S. 160A-312.
Sec. 36-115. Agreements--Generally.
   No person desiring to be supplied with water outside the corporate limits of
the town shall be permitted to purchase or use such water until he has agreed,
in writing, to the provisions of this division.
(Code 1976, § 17-36; Code 1982, § 19-60)
Sec. 36-116. Same--Annexation.
   No water or sewer service shall be provided to any property outside of the
municipal limits of the town except upon compliance with one of the following
annexation requirements:
   (1)   If the property is contiguous to the municipal limits of the town, the
property owners shall immediately petition for and obtain annexation of such
property into the municipal limits of the town; or
   (2)   If the property is not contiguous to the municipal, limits of the
town, the property owners shall immediately petition for and obtain annexation
of such property into the municipal limits of the town, provided that the town
council determines that it is in the best interest of the town and that the
town can provide all municipal services; or
   (3)   If the town council decides not to immediately annex the property, the
property owners shall enter into a written agreement with the town for
annexation at such future date as the town council determines that it is in the
best interest of the town and that the town can provide municipal services to
the property. The agreement shall include provision for the town to terminate
water and/or sewer service if the property owner fails to fulfill all
requirements to annex.
(Code 1976, § 17-37; Code 1982, § 19-61; Ord. No. 88-15, § 1, 9-22-1988; Ord.
No. 90-55, § 1, 10-11-1990)
Sec. 36-117. Discontinuance.
   When the town manager, in his discretion, shall determine that the shortness
of water supplies of the town necessitates the discontinuance of the sale of
water to consumers residing outside the corporate limits of the town, the
manager is authorized and empowered immediately to disconnect the lines of such
outside consumers, or any of them, from the public water supply lines of the
town and without notice to such consumers.
(Code 1976, § 17-33; Code 1982, § 19-62)
Sec. 36-118--36-149. Reserved.
ARTICLE IV. SEWERS
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
Sec. 36-150. Connection required.
   (a)   Improving property. Every person improving property located within the
corporate limits of the town which requires a new wastewater disposal system or
expansions to an existing system shall make an approved connection with the
town's sanitary sewer system if either of the following conditions exist:
   (1)   Property abuts or adjoins a street or alley along which is located a
sanitary sewer line; or
   (2)   Property is located adjacent to a town sanitary sewer line.
This connection shall be to all water closets, bathtubs, showers, lavatories,
toilets, sinks and all other wastewater generating plumbing units, appliances
and sanitary sewer drains located or to be located on the property, provided
that no person shall be required to cross the private property of another to
make such a connection. In addition, if the property cannot support a
wastewater disposal system and the property is within 300 feet of a sewer line,
the owner shall make an approved sewer connection as required in the previous
sentence.
   (b)   Compliance with codes. All sanitary sewer connections shall be in
accordance with the North Carolina State Plumbing Code and the requirements of
this Code.
   (c)   Fees due. At the time any connection request made by the property
owner to the town has been approved, all sanitary sewer connection charges,
development fees and outstanding assessment, or fee in lieu of assessment,
shall be due and payable.
   (d)   Occupancy. No person shall occupy any house or building for human
habitation after the sanitary sewer supply has been cut off, except in cases
where it is cut off temporarily for the purpose of effecting necessary repairs.
(Code 1976, 17-2; Code 1982, § 19-76; Ord. No. 90-26, § 1, 3-22-1990; Ord. No.
93-13, § 1, 3-11-1993; Ord. No. 99-019, 10-14-1999; Ord. No. 02-005, 2-28-2002;
Ord. No. 02-016, 6-13-2002)
Sec. 36-151. Septic tank; privy.
   (a)   Waste disposal systems (septic tanks) which are approved by the county
board of health may be constructed within the town where property is located in
such a manner that compliance with section
36-150 of this chapter is not possible. If the private waste disposal system
fails and/or the property can not support a waste disposal system and the
property is within 300 feet of a sewer line, the owner shall make an approved
sewer connection as required in section
36-150.
   (b)   No privy shall be constructed within the corporate limits of the town.
(Code 1976, § 17-19; Code 1982, § 19-77; Ord. No. 02-005, 2-28-2002)
Secs. 36-152--36-170. Reserved.
DIVISION 2. SEWER USE
Sec. 36-171. Purpose and policy.
   (a)   This division sets forth uniform requirements for users of the
wastewater collection and treatment system of the town of Cary (sometimes
hereafter "town"), and enables the town to comply with permits and interlocal
agreements and all applicable state and federal laws, including the Clean Water
Act (33 USC 1251 et seq.) and the General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR
403), as amended from time to time. The objectives of this division are:
   (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will interfere with the operation of
the system or contaminate the resulting residual solids;
   (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants and wastewater discharges
into the municipal wastewater system which will pass through the system,
inadequately treated, into any waters of the state, into the atmosphere, or
will otherwise be incompatible with the municipal wastewater system;
   (3)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and residual
solids from the municipal wastewater system;
   (4)   To protect municipal personnel who may be affected by sewage, residual
solids, and effluent in the course of their employment and to protect the
general public;
   (5)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of acquisition,
operation, maintenance and improvement of the municipal wastewater system; and
   (6)   To ensure that the town complies with its NPDES and nondischarge
permit conditions; residual solids use and disposal requirements; other
wastewater-related permits and agreements; and any other federal or state laws
to which the municipal wastewater system is subject.
   (b)   This division regulates all users of the municipal wastewater system
through the imposition and enforcement of general requirements for all users
and the issuance of wastewater discharge permits to certain users. It
authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user reporting, and
provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs of the
town's POTW and the program described herein.
   (c)   This division shall apply to all users of the municipal wastewater
system, as authorized by G.S. 160A-312. Except as otherwise provided herein,
the director of the town department of utilities shall administer, implement,
and enforce the provisions of this division. Any powers granted to or imposed
upon the director may be delegated by the director to other town personnel. By
discharging wastewater into the municipal wastewater system, users located
within or outside the town limits agree to comply with, and shall be subject
to, the provisions of this division, all rules and regulations established
hereunder, and the terms and conditions of any permits, enforcement actions, or
orders issued hereunder.
   (d)   The town through agreement authorized by law including G.S. 160A-313,
may delegate or authorize the administration, implementation, and enforcement
provision of the pretreatment program in a specified sewer service area of the
town to another POTW that has a state approved sewer use ordinance and
pretreatment program and is receiving wastewater from significant industrial
users. Users whose wastewater is permitted by a POTW other than the town, shall
meet sewer use ordinance and pretreatment program requirements as established
by the receiving POTW.
(Code 1982, § 19-89; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 2009-Code-04, 3-12-
2009; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-172. Definitions; abbreviations.
   (a)   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following
terms and phrases, as used in this division, shall have the meanings
hereinafter designated:
   Act or the Act shall mean the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also
known as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   Approval authority shall mean the Director of the Division of Water Quality
of the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources, or his
or her designee.
   Authorized representative of the user:
   (1)   If the user is a corporation, "authorized representative" shall mean:
      a.   The president, secretary, or a vice-president of the corporation in
charge of a principal business function, or any other person who performs
similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
      b.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operations
facilities, provided the manager is authorized to make management decisions
which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having the
explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment recommendations or
decisions, and initiate and direct comprehensive measures to assure long-term
environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can ensure
that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather complete
and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
   (2)   If the user is a limited liability company, a partnership or sole
proprietorship, an "authorized representative" shall mean a managing partner,
general partner or the proprietor, respectively.
   (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local government facility, an
"authorized representative" shall mean a director or the highest official
appointed or designated to oversee the operation and performance of the
activities of the government facility, or their designee.
   (4)   The persons described in subsections (1) through (3) above may
designate another person to be the authorized representative if the
authorization is in writing, the authorization designates the individual or
position responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates or having an overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, and the written authorization is received by the town.
   (5)   If the designation of an authorized representative is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
this section must be submitted to the director prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
   Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) shall mean the quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure, for five days at 20 degrees centigrade, usually expressed as a
concentration (e.g. mg/l).
   Building sewer shall mean a sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of
a user to the POTW.
   Bypass shall mean the intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion
of a user's treatment facility.
   Categorical standards. See: national categorical pretreatment standard.
   Control authority. Refers to the POTW organization if the POTW has an active
and approved pretreatment program or the POTW's approval has not been withdrawn
by the approval authority.
   Director. See: POTW director.
   Discharge of wastewater or discharge shall mean and includes discharging,
spilling, leaking, placing, emptying, contributing, or dumping any wastewater
into the town's POTW.
   Environmental protection agency or EPA shall mean the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, or, where appropriate, the term may also be used as a
designation for the administrator or other duly authorized EPA official.
   Grab sample shall mean a sample which is taken from a wastestream on a one-
time basis without regard to the flow in the wastestream and over a period of
time not to exceed 15 minutes.
   Holding tank waste shall mean any waste from holding tanks, including, but
not limited to, such holding tanks as those of vessels, chemical toilets,
campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump trucks.
   Indirect discharge shall mean the discharge of nondomestic wastewater into
the POTW from any source regulated under section 307(b), (c), or (d) of the Act
(33 USC 1317), including holding tank waste.
   Industrial user shall mean any user that is a source of indirect discharge.
   Interference shall mean the inhibition or disruption of the POTW collection
systems, its treatment processes or operations, or its residual solids
processes, use or disposal, which causes or contributes to a violation of any
requirement of the control authority and/or POTW, if different from the Control
Authority, NPDES, collection systems, or nondischarge permit or prevents
residual solids use or disposal in compliance with applicable state and federal
statutes, regulations, or permits. The term includes prevention of sewage
residual solids use or disposal by the POTW in accordance with section 405 of
the Act (33 USC 1345), or any criteria, guidelines, or regulations developed
pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) (42 USC 6901 et seq.), the
Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Marine Protection Research
and Sanctuary Act (MPRSA), or more stringent state criteria (including those
contained in any state residual solids management plan prepared pursuant to
Title IV of the SWDA) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by
the POTW.
   Kit Creek Pump Station Service Area shall mean the area within which users
contribute wastewater to the Kit Creek Pump Station (KCPS), as shown in
figure 1.
   Medical waste shall mean isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood
and blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated
bedding, surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes, and
dialysis wastes.
   Middle tier significant industrial user shall mean a user who is subject to
national categorical pretreatment standards and that meets the qualifications
of 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(3), may be eligible for reduced sampling and
inspection requirements.
   National categorical pretreatment standard or categorical standard shall
mean any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by EPA in
accordance with sections 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC section 1317) which
applies to a specific category of users, and which appears in 40 CFR chapter I,
subchapter N, parts 405 through 471, as amended from time to time.
   National pollutant discharge elimination system permit or NPDES permit shall
mean a permit issued pursuant to section 402 of the Act (33 USC section 1342),
or pursuant to G.S. 143-215.1 by the state under delegation from the EPA.
   National prohibited discharge standard or prohibited discharge standard
shall mean absolute prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances.
These prohibitions appear in section
36-173 of this division and are developed under the authority of 307(b) of the
Act and 40 CFR, 403.5.
   New source shall mean as defined in 40 CFR 403.3(m), including any
subsequent amendments and additions.
   Noncontact cooling water shall mean water used for cooling which does not
come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste
product, or finished product.
   Nondischarge permit shall mean a disposal system permit issued by the state
pursuant to G.S. 143-215.1(d).
   Non-significant categorical industrial user shall mean a user subject to
national categorical pretreatment standards and that meets the qualifications
of 40 CFR Part 403.3(v)(2).
   Pass through shall mean a discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the
state in quantities or concentrations which, alone or with discharges from
other sources, causes a violation, including an increase in the magnitude or
duration of a violation, of the control authority's (and/or POTW's, if
different from the control authority) NPDES, collection system, or nondischarge
permit, or a downstream water quality standard.
   Person has the definition found in Chapter
1, Section
1-2 of this Code and specifically includes all federal, state and local
governmental entities.
   pH shall mean a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance,
expressed as standard units, and calculated as the logarithm (base 10) of the
reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter
of solution.
   Pollutant shall mean any "waste" as defined in G.S. 143-213(18) and dredged
spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage residual
solids, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste and certain
characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color,
BOD, COD, toxicity, metals, or odor).
   POTW. See: Publicly owned treatment works.
   POTW director or director shall mean the director of public works and
utilities or his or her designee. Unless specifically provided otherwise, the
utility director for the town may act in the absence of the director, and in
the absence of both the public works and utilities director and the utility
director, the public works director for the town may act for the director.
   POTW treatment plant shall mean that portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
   Pretreatment shall mean the reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollutants into a POTW collection system and/or POTW treatment
plant. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes, or process changes or other means, except as prohibited
by 40 CFR Part 403.6(d).
   Pretreatment program shall mean the program for the control of pollutants
introduced into the POTW from nondomestic sources which was developed by the
town in compliance with 40 CFR 403.8 and approved by the approval authority as
authorized by G.S. 143-215.3(a)(14) in accordance with 40 CFR 403.11.
   Pretreatment requirements shall mean any substantive or procedural
requirement related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard.
   Pretreatment standards shall mean prohibited discharge standards,
categorical standards, and local limits, including user-specific local limits
contained in a wastewater discharge permit.
   Prohibited discharge standard. See national prohibited discharge standard.
   Publicly owned treatment works (POTW) or municipal wastewater system
(sometimes also "system") shall mean a treatment works as defined by section
212 of the Act (33 USC 1292), which is owned by the town or owned by others and
used by the town through contract or agreement. This definition includes any
devices or systems used in the collection, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal wastewater or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It
also includes sewers, pipes, and other conveyances and appurtenances if they
convey wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. For the purposes of this division,
"POTW" or “satellite POTW” shall also include any sewers, pipes and other
conveyances and appurtenances that convey wastewaters to the town’s POTW from
persons located outside the town who are, by contract or agreement with the
town, or in any other way, users of the town's POTW. For the purposes of this
division, POTW shall also include any treatment works as defined by section 212
of the Act (33 USC 1292), sewers, pipes and other conveyances and appurtenances
that are owned by others and that receive wastewater from the town's municipal
wastewater system by contract or agreement with the town.
   Residual solids shall mean the settled, thickened, biologically reduced
semisolid residue containing material removed during the treatment process of
municipal wastewater. Residual solids are also known as sludge.
   Satellite POTW. See: Publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
   Severe property damage shall mean substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the user's treatment facilities which causes them to become
inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. "Severe property
damage" does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   Significant industrial user or SIU shall mean any industrial user of the
POTW who meets any one of the following criteria and is not otherwise exempted
pursuant to section 36-187 of this division:
   (1)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of process
wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and boiler
blowdown wastewaters); or
   (2)   Contributes process wastewater which makes up five percent or more of
the NPDES, Non-discharge permitted flow limit or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant. In this context, organic capacity refers to BOD, TSS, Ammonia,
Total Phosphorus, and Total Nitrogen; or
   (3)   Is subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards under 40 CFR Part
403.6 and 40 CFR chapter I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471; or is designated as
such by the control authority on the basis that the industrial user has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation, or violating
any pretreatment standard or requirement, for contributing to violations of the
POTW's effluent limitations and conditions in its NPDES or non-discharge
permit, or for limiting the POTW's sludge disposal options.
   Significant noncompliance or SNC is the status on noncompliance of a
significant industrial user when one or more of the following criteria are met.
Additionally, any industrial user which meets criteria 3, 4, or 8 of this
definition shall also be SNC.
   (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which sixty-six (66) percent or more of all the measurements taken for
the same pollutant parameter (not including flow) during a six month period
exceeded, by any magnitude, a numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement
including instantaneous limits, as defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(l);
   (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations: defined as those in which
thirty-three (33) percent or more of all the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six month period equal or exceed the product of
the numeric Pretreatment Standard or Requirement including instantaneous
limits, as defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(l) multiplied by the applicable TRC;
(TRC = 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils, and grease, and 1.2 for all other
pollutants except flow and pH);
   (3)   Any other violation(s) of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 CFR Part 403.3(l) (long term average, daily maximum,
instantaneous limit, or narrative standard) or condition that the control
authority or the POTW, if different from the control authority, determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-
through; or endangered the health of the POTW personnel, other town employees,
or the public;
   (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant or wastewater that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health or welfare or to the environment or has resulted
in the control authority's or the POTW's, if different from the control
authority, exercise of its emergency authority under 40 CFR Part 403.8(f)(1)
(vi)(B) and section
36-179(a)(5) of this division to halt or prevent such a discharge;
   (5)   Violations of compliance schedule milestones contained in a wastewater
discharge permit or enforcement order, for starting construction, completing
construction, or attaining final compliance when such failure to meet schedule
milestones exists for 90 days or more after the schedule date;
   (6)   Failure to provide reports for compliance schedule, self monitoring
data, baseline monitoring reports, 90 day compliance reports, and compliance
reports within 45 days of the due date;
   (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
   (8)   Any other violation or group of violations that the control authority
and/or the POTW, if different from the control authority, determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the pretreatment program.
   Sludge. See: Residual solids.
   Slug load or discharge. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which
has a reasonable potential to cause Interference or Pass-Through, or in any
other way violates the POTW's regulations, local limits, or Industrial User
Permit conditions. This can include but is not limited to spills and other
accidental discharges; discharges of a non-routine, episodic nature; a non-
customary batch discharge; or any other discharges that could cause a violation
of the prohibited discharge standards contained in section
36-173 of this division.
   Standard industrial classification (SIC) shall mean a classification
pursuant to the standard industrial classification manual issued by the
executive office of the president, office of management and budget, 1987.
   Stormwater shall mean any flow occurring during or following any form of
natural precipitation and resulting from such precipitation.
   Suspended solids shall mean the total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering.
   User shall mean any person, including those located outside the
jurisdictional limits of the town, who contributes, causes or permits the
contribution or discharge of wastewater into the POTW, including persons who
contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who discharge
hauled wastewater.
   Wastewater shall mean the liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic
wastes from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, mobile
sources, treatment facilities, and institutions, together with any groundwater,
surface water and stormwater that may be present, whether treated or untreated,
which are discharged to, contributed into, or otherwise permitted to enter the
POTW.
   Wastewater discharge permit or wastewater permit shall mean a permit as set
forth in section
36-175(b) of this division.
   Waters of the state shall mean all streams, rivers, brooks, swamps, sounds,
tidal estuaries, bays, creeks, lakes, waterways, reservoirs and all other
bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or
artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow through, or
border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   (b)   The following abbreviations, when used in this division, shall have
the designated meanings:
   BOD: Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
   CBOD: Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
   CFR: Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD: Chemical Oxygen Demand.
   EPA: Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd: gallons per day.
   G.S.: North Carolina General Statutes.
   l: liter.
   mg: milligrams.
   mg/l: milligrams per liter.
   NPDES: National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   O & M: Operation and Maintenance.
   POTW: Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
   RCRA: Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC: Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA: Solid Waste Disposal Act.
   TN: Total Nitrogen.
   TKN: Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen
   TSS: Total Suspended Solids.
   USC: United States Code.
(Code 1982, § 19-90; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 02-011, 4-11-2002;
Ord. No. 06-004, 3-9-2006; Ord. No. 2007-20, 12-13-2007; Ord. No. 2009-Code-04,
3-12-2009; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-173. Prohibited discharge standards.
   Unless specifically provided otherwise, the prohibited discharge standards
set forth in this section shall apply to all users of the POTW, including
significant industrial users and users subject to national, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (1)   General prohibitions. No user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW, directly or indirectly, which causes interference or pass-through.
   (2)   Specific prohibitions. No user shall discharge wastewater into the
POTW that contains, or has the characteristics of, the following:
      a.   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius) using the test methods
specified in 40 CFR 261.21, as amended from time to time.
      b.   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction of the flow
in a sanitary sewer or the POTW resulting in interference. This includes, but
is not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater than one-half inch
(1/2") in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair,
hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand,
spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, and wood.
      c.   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass-through.
      d.   Unless otherwise permitted, any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0
or more than 10.5 or wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of
causing damage to the POTW, collection system, or equipment. Any pH above 12.5
is considered hazardous under 40 CFR 261.22.
      e.   Any wastewater containing pollutants, including oxygen-demanding
pollutants (BOD, CBOD, COD, etc.), in sufficient quantity (flow or
concentration), either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to cause
interference.
      f.   Any wastewater having a temperature that is greater than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (66 degrees Celsius), or that will inhibit biological activity in
the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference. In no case shall a user
contribute wastewater, the temperature of which, acting alone or in conjunction
with other wastewater, causes the temperature at the introduction into the POTW
treatment plant to exceed 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees Celsius).
      g.   Any pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health or
safety problems.
      h.   Any trucked or hauled pollutants or wastewater, unless it is with
the approval of the director, and then only at discharge points designated by
the director in accordance with subsection
36-173(11) of this division.
      i.   Any noxious or malodorous gases, solids, liquids or other
wastewaters, which alone or by interaction with other wastes is sufficient to
create a public nuisance or hazard to life or is sufficient to prevent entry by
authorized town personnel into the sanitary sewer collection system for
maintenance or repair.
      j.   Any substance which may cause the POTW effluent or any other product
of the POTW, such as residues, residual solids, or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or which interferes with the reclamation process. In no
case shall a substance discharged or contributed to the POTW cause the POTW to
be in noncompliance with residual solids use or disposal criteria, including,
but not limited to, guidelines, regulations, or permits issued under section
405 of the Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic
Substances Control Act; or state criteria, guidelines, regulations, or permits
applicable to the residual solids management method being used.
      k.   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES or
nondischarge permit or the receiving water quality standards.
      l.   Any wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process (including, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions) and which imparts sufficient color to the POTW effluent to
render the waters injurious to public health or secondary recreation or aquatic
life and wildlife or which adversely affect the palatability of fish or their
aesthetic quality or which impairs the receiving waters for any designated use.
      m.   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes, except
as specifically approved by the POTW director in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations.
      n.   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance.
      o.   Stormwater, surface water, artesian well water, roof runoff,
subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized water,
noncontact cooling water, groundwater from any source, and unpolluted
industrial wastewater, unless specifically authorized by the director.
      p.   Fats, oils, or greases of animal or vegetable origin in
concentrations greater than a level determined by the director, to cause sewer
pipe blockages or in amounts causing adverse accumulation in sewer pipes,
resulting in sewer blockage.
      q.   Any medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the
director in a wastewater discharge permit.
      r.   Any solids residuals, screenings, or other residues from the
pretreatment of industrial wastes.
      s.   Any material containing ammonia, ammonia salts, or other chelating
agents which will produce metallic complexes that interfere with the POTW.
      t.   Any material that would be identified as hazardous waste according
to 40 CFR 261 if not disposed of in a sewer, except as may be specifically
authorized by the director.
      u.   Any wastewater causing the POTW effluent to violate state water
quality standards for toxic substances as described in 15A NCAC 2B .0200, as
amended from time to time.
      v.   Wastewater which, acting alone or in conjunction with wastewater
from other sources, causes the POTW's effluent to fail a toxicity test.
      w.   Recognizable portions of the human or animal anatomy.
      x.   Any wastes containing detergents, surfaces active agents, or other
substances which may cause excessive foaming in the POTW.
      y.   Any wastewater that has two successive readings on an explosion
hazard meter of more than five percent or any single reading on such meter more
than ten percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Such readings
may be taken at the point of discharge into the system or at any point in the
system.
   (3)   Storage of substances/action by director. Pollutants, substances,
wastewater, or other wastes prohibited by this section shall not be processed
or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW. All floor
drains located in process or materials storage areas must discharge to the
user's pretreatment facility before connecting with the POTW. When the director
determines that a user is contributing or discharging to the POTW any pollutant
or wastewater which causes interference or pass-through or is contributing or
discharging any of the pollutants, substances or wastewater that violate the
prohibitions set forth in (2) above, the director may:
      a.   Advise the user of the potential impact of the contribution on the
POTW in accordance with section
36-179 of this division; and
      b.   Take appropriate action, in accordance with section
36-178 of this division, requiring such user to protect the POTW and sewer
collection system from interference, pass-through, blockages, and structural or
mechanical failure.
   (4)   National categorical pretreatment standards. Users subject to National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards are required to comply with applicable
standards as set out in 40 CFR chapter 1, subchapter N, parts 405 through 471,
as amended from time to time, which are incorporated herein by reference.
      a.   Where a categorical standard is expressed only in terms of either
the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the director may
impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance with 40 CFR 403.6
(c), as amended from time to time.
      b.   When wastewater subject to a categorical standard is mixed with
wastewater not regulated by the same standard, the director shall impose an
alternate limit using the combined wastestream formula in 40 CFR 403.6(e), as
amended from time to time.
      c.   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical standard if the user
can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive provisions in 40 CFR
403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are fundamentally different from
the factors considered by the EPA in developing the categorical standard.
      d.   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.15.
      e.   A user may request a removal credit adjustment to a categorical
standard in accordance with 40 CFR 403.7.
   (5)   Industrial waste survey and local limits. An industrial waste survey
is required prior to a user discharging wastewater containing in excess of the
following average discharge limits. Industrial waste survey information will be
used to develop user-specific local limits when necessary to ensure that the
POTW's maximum allowable headworks loading or permitted allocation through
interlocal agreement, is not exceeded for particular pollutants of concern.
KCPS users are subject to additional lower local limits as listed in Section
36-186.
Limits (mg/l ) Pollutants
Limits (mg/l ) Pollutants
250            CBOD
250            TSS
40             Total Nitrogen
7.0            Total Phosphorus
0.0046         Arsenic, total
0.0057         Cadmium, total
0.072          Copper, total
0.015          Cyanide, total
0.0348         Lead, total
0.000189       Mercury, total
0.0237         Nickel, total
0.0190         Silver, total
0.0279         Chromium, total
0.1395         Zinc, total
25             Ammonia nitrogen
 
      User-specific local limits for appropriate pollutants of concern shall be
included in wastewater permits and shall be considered pretreatment standards.
The director may impose mass limits in addition to, or in place of, the
concentration-based limits set forth above.
      Additionally, domestic sewage limits for parameters other than those
listed above may be established by the director and shall be based on either
actually measured local domestic sewage levels or literature values.
   (6)   State standards. State standards and requirements on discharges shall
apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements or
limitations or those contained in this division.
   (7)   Right of revision. The town reserves the right to establish and amend
standards, including limitations and requirements, which are more stringent
than those required by either state or federal regulation if deemed necessary
to comply with the objectives set forth in section
36-171 of this division or the general and specific prohibitions in section
36-173 of this division, as is allowed by 40 CFR 403.4.
   (8)   Dilution. No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in
any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the
national categorical pretreatment standards or in this division, unless
expressly authorized by an applicable pretreatment standard or by any other
pollutant-specific limitation developed by the town or state.
   (9)   Pretreatment of wastewater.
      a.   Pretreatment facilities. Users shall provide wastewater treatment as
necessary to comply with this division and wastewater permits issued under
section
36-175(b) of this division, and users shall achieve compliance with all
national categorical pretreatment standards, local limits, and the prohibitions
set out in section
36-173 of this division within the time limitations specified by the EPA, the
state, or the director, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary
for compliance (pretreatment facilities) shall be provided, operated, and
maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the user's
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the town
for review, and shall be approved by the director before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this
division. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facility or its method of
operation shall be reported to, and be approved by, the director prior to the
user's initiation of the changes.
      b.   Additional pretreatment measures.
         1.   Whenever the director deems it necessary, the director may
require users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods; designate
that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers; relocate and/
or consolidate points of discharge; separate sewage wastestreams from
industrial wastestreams; and require such other conditions as may be necessary
to protect the POTW or to determine the user's compliance with the requirements
of this division.
         2.   The director may require any person discharging into the POTW to
install and maintain, on their property and at their expense, a suitable
storage and flow control facility to ensure equalization of flow. The director
may issue a wastewater discharge permit solely for flow equalization.
         3.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided by the user
when, in the opinion of the director, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand,
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of a type and capacity approved by the director and
shall be so located as to be easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired regularly, as
needed, by the user at the user's expense. See also section
36-183 for additional requirements.
         4.   Users with the potential to discharge flammable substances may be
required to install and maintain one or more approved combustible gas detection
meters.
   (10)   Accidental discharge/slug control plan. The director shall evaluate
whether each significant industrial user needs a plan or other action to
control and prevent slug discharges and accidental discharges as defined in
section
36-172, Definitions. All SIUs must be evaluated within one year of being
designated as SIU. The director may require any user to develop, submit for
approval, and implement such a plan or other specific action. Alternatively,
the director may develop such a plan for any user. All SIUs are required to
notify the POTW immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for spills and other accidental discharge, discharge of non-routine,
episodic nature, a non-customary batch discharge, or a slug load. Also see
section
36-176(e), (f).
      An accidental discharge/slug control plan shall address, at a minimum,
the following:
      a.   Description of discharge practices, including nonroutine batch
discharges;
      b.   Description of stored chemicals;
      c.   Procedures for immediately notifying the director of any accidental
or slug discharge, as required by section
36-176(f) of this division;
      d.   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures shall include, but are not limited to, inspection
and maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading
and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training,
building of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic
organic pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for
emergency response.
   (11)   Hauled wastewater.
      a.   Septic tank waste may not be discharged into the POTW unless the
director has given his approval for the discharge. If such approval is granted,
septic tank waste may be discharged into the POTW only at locations designated
by the director, and only at such times as are established by the director.
Such septic tank waste shall conform to the requirements of section
36-173 of this division and any other requirement established by the town. The
director may require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge
permits.
      b.   The director may prohibit the discharge into the POTW of hauled
industrial waste. If the director permits such discharge, the director shall
require haulers of industrial waste to obtain wastewater discharge permits. The
director may also require the generators of hauled industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. The discharge of hauled industrial waste is
subject to all the requirements of this division.
      c.   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the director. No load may be discharged without the prior consent
of the director. The director may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable standards. The director may require the industrial
waste hauler to provide a waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
      d.   Industrial waste haulers shall provide a waste-tracking form for
every load. The information provided on the form shall include, at a minimum,
the following:
         1.   The name and address of the industrial waste hauler;
         2.   The permit number of the industrial waste hauler;
         3.   The permit number of the industrial waste generator, if there is
one;
         4.   The waste hauler truck identification;
         5.   Names and addresses of sources of all waste;
         6.   Identification of the type of industry that is the source of the
waste; and
         7.   Volume and characteristics of the waste, including all known or
suspected waste constituents and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes.
(Code 1982, § 19-91; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 02-011, 4-11-2002;
Ord. No. 05-005, 3-10-2005; Ord. No. 06-004, 3-9-2006; Ord. No. 2007-20, 12-13-
2007; Ord. No. 2009-Code-04, 3-12-2009; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-174. Fees.
   (a)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this division to provide for the
recovery from users of the town's wastewater disposal system of costs of the
POTW and for the implementation of the program provided for herein. The
applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the town's schedule of charges
and fees.
   (b)   User charges. A user charge shall be levied on, and paid by, all
users.
   (1)   The user charge shall reflect, at a minimum, the cost to the town of
debt service, and operation and maintenance costs (including, but not limited
to, replacement costs) of the POTW.
   (2)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of cost based on the
volume of the user's flow.
   (3)   The town manager shall review annually the sewage contributions of
users, the total costs of debt service, and operation and maintenance costs of
the POTW (including, but not limited to, replacement costs) and shall make
recommendations to the town council for adjustments in the schedule of charges
and fees as necessary.
   (c)   Surcharges. All industrial users of the POTW are subject to industrial
waste surcharges on all discharges which exceed the following levels:
 
Parameter        Levels (mg/l )
CBOD             250
TSS              250
TN               40
Total Phosphorus 7
Ammonia nitrogen 25
 
The surcharge shall be based upon the mass emission rate (in pounds per day)
discharged above the levels listed above. The amount charged per pound of
excess shall be set forth in the schedule of charges and fees. The imposition
or payment of the surcharge shall in no way be construed to constitute an
authorization for the user to discharge in excess of the levels set forth
above, nor shall it be construed to constitute a waiver of the town's right to
strictly enforce the provisions of this division.
   (d)   Charge and surcharge determination. The volume of flow used in
determining the total discharge of wastewater for payment of user charges and
surcharges shall be based on the following:
   (1)   Metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter readings
maintained by the town; or
   (2)   If required by the director, or if desired by the user with the
consent of the director, other flow measuring devices ("alternate metering
devices") which measure the actual volume of wastewater discharged to the
sewer. Such "alternate metering devices" shall be accessible and safely
located, and shall be installed in accordance with plans approved by the town.
The alternate metering device shall be installed and maintained at the user's
expense according to arrangements that may be made with the town. Certified
calibration of the metering device shall be required at least every three
months. More frequent calibrations may be required by the director.
   (3)   Where any user procures all or part of the user's water supply from
sources other than the town, the user shall install and maintain at the user's
own expense a flow measuring device of a type approved by the town.
   (e)   Surcharge sampling. The character and concentration of wastewater used
in determining surcharges shall be determined by samples collected and analyzed
by the town or by state-certified contract laboratory personnel performing
permitted self-monitoring activities. Samples shall be collected in such a
manner as to be representative of the actual discharge and shall be analyzed
using procedures set forth in 40 CFR 136 by a state-certified laboratory.
   (f)   Determination binding. The determination by the director of the
character and concentration the constituents of wastewater discharged shall be
binding on the user as a basis for all charges and surcharges.
   (g)   Pretreatment program administration charges. The schedule of charges
and fees adopted by the town may include charges and fees for:
   (1)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the pretreatment
program;
   (2)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (3)   Reviewing slug control plans, including accidental and slug load
discharge procedures and construction plans and specifications;
   (4)   Permitting; and
   (5)   Other fees as the town may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements of the pretreatment program.
The schedule of charges and fees will be set forth in the town's annual budget
ordinance.
(Code 1982, § 19-92; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 02-011, 4-11-2002;
Ord. No. 05-005, 3-10-2005; Ord. No. 2007-20, 12-13-2007; Ord. No. 2011-Code-
09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-175. Wastewater discharge permit, application and issuance.
   (a)   Wastewater dischargers. It shall be unlawful for any person to connect
or discharge to the POTW without first obtaining the permission of the
director. When requested by the director, a user must submit information on the
nature and characteristics of its wastewater within 30 days of the director's
request. The director is authorized to prepare a form for this purpose and may
periodically require users to update this information.
   (b)   Permits. All significant industrial users shall obtain a significant
industrial user wastewater discharge permit ("significant industrial user
permit" or "SIU permit") prior to the commencement of discharge to the POTW.
Existing industrial users who are determined by the director to be significant
industrial users shall obtain a significant industrial user permit within 180
days of receiving notification of the director's determination. Industrial
users who do not fit the significant industrial user criteria may, at the
discretion of the director, be required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit
for nonsignificant Industrial users (non-SIU permit). Both SIU permits and non-
SIU permits are referred to as wastewater discharge permits or permits.
   (1)   Significant industrial user determination. All persons proposing to
discharge nondomestic wastewater, or proposing to change the volume or
characteristics of an existing discharge of nondomestic wastewater, shall
request from the director a significant industrial user determination. If the
director determines or suspects that the proposed discharge fits the
significant industrial user criteria, he will require that the user file a SIU
permit application.
   (2)   Application. Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit,
including a SIU permit, shall complete and file with the town an application in
the form prescribed by the director, which shall be accompanied by an
application fee in the amount prescribed in the schedule_of_charges_and_fees.
Users required to renew a wastewater discharge permit shall renew such permit
in accordance with the procedures for renewal described in the permit.
Significant industrial users shall apply for a SIU permit within 90 days of
receiving notification of the director's determination in (b)(1) above. In
support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and terms
appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      a.   Name, address, and location (if different from the address);
      b.   Standard industrial classification (SIC) codes or expected
classification for pretreatment, the industry as a whole, and any processes for
which categorical pretreatment standards have been promulgated;
      c.   Types and concentrations or mass of pollutants contained in the
discharge including, but not limited to, those mentioned in section
36-173 of this division and any of the priority pollutants (section 307(a) of
the Act) which the applicant knows or suspects are present in the discharge as
determined by a state-certified analytical laboratory, and any other pollutant
of concern to the POTW. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance
with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to section 304(g) of the Act
and as contained in 40 CFR, 136, as amended; and as required in section
36-176(k) and (l)(i)-(iii) of this division.
      d.   Time and duration of discharge;
      e.   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      f.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, floor drains, sewer connections, direction of flow, and
appurtenances by the size, location and elevation and discharge points or
locations;
      g.   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are, or could be, discharged;
      h.   Where known, the nature and concentration or mass of any pollutants
in the discharge which are limited by any town, state, or federal pretreatment
standards and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O & M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      i.   If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions apply to this schedule:
         1.   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards. No increment in the schedule shall
exceed nine months;
         2.   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance, the user shall submit a written progress report to
the director which shall include, at a minimum, a statement as to whether or
not the user complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay,
and, if appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the
established schedule. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between
progress reports to the director;
      j.   Each product produced or services performed by type, amount, process
or processes and rate of production;
      k.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per
day);
      l.   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      m.   If subject to a categorical standard, a baseline monitoring report
in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(b) and 15 NCAC 2H.0908(a), as outlined in
section
36-176 of this division;
      n.   Description of current and projected waste reduction activities in
accordance with G.S. 143-215.1(g);
      o.   Description of existing on-site pretreatment facilities; if
applicable, including operation and practices performed; and
      p.   Any other information as may be deemed by the director to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (3)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by the current
representative of the user on file with the Town of Cary as defined in section
36-172; "Authorized Representative User" and must contain the following
certification statement:
         I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. l am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.
   (4)   Application review and evaluation.
      a.   The director is authorized to accept applications for the town and
may refer all applications to the POTW staff for review and evaluation.
      b.   Within 60 days of receipt, the director shall acknowledge and accept
the complete application, or if the application is not complete, the director
shall return the application to the applicant with a statement as to what
additional information is required.
   (5)   Tentative determination and draft permit.
      a.   The POTW staff shall review the application and shall conduct an on-
site inspection of the significant industrial user, including any pretreatment
facility. An on-site inspection of other users, including pretreatment
facilities, may also be conducted. The POTW staff shall prepare a written
evaluation and tentative determination to issue or deny the wastewater
discharge permit.
      b.   If the staff's tentative determination in subsection (5)a. above is
to issue the permit, the following additional determinations shall be made in
writing:
         1.   Proposed discharge limitations for those pollutants proposed to
be limited;
         2.   A proposed schedule of compliance, including interim dates and
requirements for meeting the proposed limitations; and
         3.   A brief description of any other proposed special conditions
which will have significant impact upon the discharge described in the
application.
      c.   The POTW staff shall organize the determinations made pursuant to
paragraphs (5)a. and (5)b. above, along with the town's general permit
conditions, into a wastewater discharge permit.
   (6)   Permit supporting documentation. The control authority staff shall
prepare the following documents for all significant industrial user permits.
      a.   An allocation table (AT) listing permit information for all
significant industrial users, including but not limited to permit limits,
permit effective and expiration dates, and a comparison of total permitted
flows and loads with Division approved maximum allowable loadings of the POTW,
including flow, on forms or in a format approved by the Division. The AT shall
be updated as permits are issued or renewed, and as permits are modified where
the permitted limits or other AT information is revised.
      b.   The basis, or rationale, for the pretreatment limitations, including
the following:
         1.   Documentation of categorical determinations, including
documentation of any calculations used in applying categorical pretreatment
standards, and;
         2.   Documentation of the rationale of any parameters for which
monitoring has been waived under 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(2).
   (7)   Final action on applications.
      a.   The director shall take final action on all applications and shall
notify the applicants of the action taken not later than 90 days following
receipt of a complete application.
      b.   The director is authorized to take any one or more of the following
actions:
         1.   Issue a wastewater discharge permit containing such conditions as
are necessary to effectuate the purposes of this division and G.S. 143-215.1;
         2.   Issue a wastewater discharge permit containing time schedules for
achieving compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements;
         3.   Modify any permit upon not less than 60 days' notice and in
accordance with section
36-175 of this division;
         4.   Revoke any permit pursuant to section
36-179 of this division;
         5.   Suspend a permit pursuant to section
36-179 of this division;
         6.   Deny a permit application when, in the opinion of the director,
such a discharge may cause or contribute to pass-through or interference or
where necessary to effectuate the purposes of G.S. 143-215.1.
   (8)   Permit modification.
      a.   Procedural requirements. Modifications of permits shall be subject
to the same procedural requirements as the issuance of permits, except as
listed below. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall include a
reasonable time schedule for compliance attainment.
         1.   Changes in the ownership of the discharge when no other change in
the permit is indicated.
         2.   A single modification of any compliance schedule not in excess of
four months.
         3.   Modification of compliance schedules in permits for new source's
construction schedules where the new source will not begin to discharge until
the discharge characteristics can meet the requirements of this division.
      b.   Categorical standards revisions. Within nine months of the
promulgation of a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater
discharge permit of users subject to such standards shall be revised to require
compliance with such standard within the time frame prescribed by such
standard. Where a user subject to a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard
has not previously submitted an application for a wastewater discharge permit
as required by subsection (b), the shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit within 180 days of the promulgation of the applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
      c.   User request for modification. A request for a modification by the
user shall constitute a waiver of the 60-day notice for modifications required
by G.S. 143-215.1(b).
   (9)   Permit conditions.
      a.   The director shall have the authority to grant a permit with such
conditions attached as the director believes necessary to achieve the purpose
of this division and G.S. 143-215.1. Permit conditions shall include the
following:
         1.   A statement of duration (in no case more than five years);
         2.   A statement of nontransferability;
         3.   Applicable effluent limits based on categorical standards or
local limits, or both;
         4.   Applicable monitoring, sampling, reporting, notification, and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling locations, sampling frequency, and
sampling type based on federal, state, and local law;
         5.   Notification requirements for slug loads or accidental discharge
as identified in section
36-172(a), "Definitions - Slug Load or Discharge";
         6.   A statement of applicable civil and/or criminal penalties for
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any applicable
compliance schedule;
         7.   Requirements to implement a Plan or other controls for prevention
of accidental discharges or slug load as defined in section
36-172(a) "Definitions - Slug Load or Discharge", if determined by the director
to be necessary for the user, and
         8.   Requirements for immediately notifying the director of any
changes at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharges or slug load as defined in section
36-172(a) "Definitions - Slug Load or Discharge". Also see section
36-176(e), (f).
      b.   In addition, at the discretion of the director, wastewater discharge
permits may contain other conditions which may include, but are not limited to,
the following:
         1.   Limits on the average and maximum rate of discharge, and
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         2.   Limits on the instantaneous, daily and/or monthly average and/or
maximum concentration, mass, or other measure of identified wastewater
pollutants or properties;
         3.   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology or
construction of appropriate containment devices, and similar requirements
designed to reduce, eliminate, or prevent the introduction of pollutants into
the POTW;
         4.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         5.   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         6.   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the system;
         7.   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         8.   Specifications for a monitoring program which may include
sampling locations, sampling frequency, number, types, and standards for tests,
and reporting schedules;
         9.   Requirements for immediate reporting of any instance of
noncompliance and for automatic and resampling and reporting within 30 days,
where self-monitoring indicates a violation(s);
         10.   Compliance schedules for meeting pretreatment standards and
requirements;
         11.   Requirements for submission of periodic self-monitoring of
special notification reports;
         12.   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plans and records
relating to wastewater discharges as specified in section
36-176(m)[n] and affording the director or his representatives, access thereto;
         13.   Requirements for prior notification and approval by the director
of any new introduction of wastewater pollutants or of any significant change
in the volume or character of the wastewater prior to introduction into the
POTW;
         14.   Requirements for the prior notification and approval by the
director of any change in the manufacturing and/or pretreatment process used by
the permittee;
         15.   Requirements for immediate notification of excessive,
accidental, or slug discharges, or any discharge which could cause any problems
to the POTW;
         16.   A statement that compliance with the permit does not relieve the
permittee of responsibility for compliance with all applicable federal and
state pretreatment standards, including those which become effective after the
issuance of the permit; and
         17.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the director to ensure
compliance with this division, and state and federal laws, rules, and
regulations.
   (10)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period of time that is
less than a year and may be drafted to expire on a specific date.
   (11)   Permit transfer. Wastewater discharge permits shall be issued to a
specific user for a specific operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not
be assigned or transferred or sold to any person, including a new owner or new
user, nor shall it be assigned or transferred to a different premises, or to a
new or changed operation.
   (12)   Permit reissuance. A user shall apply for permit reissuance by
submitting a complete permit application in accordance with subsection (b) at
least 90 days prior to the expiration of the existing permit.
(Code 1982, § 19-93; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 06-004, 3-9-2006;
Ord. No. 2007-20, 12-13-2007; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-176. Reporting requirements.
   (a)   Baseline monitoring reports.
   (1)   Within 180 days after either the effective date of a categorical
pretreatment standard or the final administrative decision on a category
determination under 40 CFR 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, users subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard who are currently discharging to, or
scheduled to discharge to, the POTW shall submit to the director a report which
contains the information listed in subsection (a)(2) a. through h. below. At
least 90 days prior to commencement of their discharge, new sources, and
sources that become subject to categorical pretreatment standards subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall submit to the
director a report which contains the information listed in subsection (a)(2)a.
through h. below. A new source shall report the method of pretreatment it
intends to use to meet applicable categorical standards. A new source also
shall give estimates of its anticipated flow and quantity of pollutants to be
discharged.
   (2)   Users described above shall submit the information set forth below:
      a.   Identifying information. The name and address of the facility,
including the name of the operator and owner.
      b.   Environmental permits. A list of any environmental control permits
held by or for the facility.
      c.   Description of operations. A brief description of the nature,
average rate of production, and standard industrial classifications of the
operation(s) carried out by such user. This description should include a
schematic process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from
the regulated processes.
      d.   Flow measurement. Information showing the measured average daily and
maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from regulated process
streams and other streams, as necessary, to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set out in 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      e.   Measurement of pollutants.
         1.   The categorical pretreatment standards applicable to each
regulated process.
         2.   The results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration, and/or mass of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each
regulated process, where required by the standard or by the director.
Instantaneous, daily maximum, and long-term average concentrations or mass,
where required, shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations and shall be analyzed in accordance with procedures set out in
subsection (j) of this section.
         3.   Sampling must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in subsection (l) of this section and 40 CFR 403.12(b)and(g), including 40 CFR
403.12(g)(4).
      f.   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user's current
authorized representative as defined in section
36-172, Definitions: "Authorized Representative User" and certified by a
licensed professional engineer, indicating whether pretreatment standards are
being met on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance (O & M) and/or additional pretreatment is required to meet the
pretreatment standards and requirements.
      g.   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O & M. The completion
date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established
for the applicable pretreatment standard. A compliance schedule pursuant to
this section must meet the requirements set out in subsection (b) of this
section.
      h.   Signature and certification. All baseline monitoring reports must be
signed and certified in accordance with section
36-175(b)(3) of this division.
   (b)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by section
36-176(a)(2)g.:
   (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction, and beginning and
conducting routine operation);
   (2)   No progress increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
   (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the director no later than
14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of compliance,
including in such report, at a minimum, statements as to whether or not it
complied with the increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if
appropriate, the steps being taken by the user to return to the established
schedule; and
   (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such progress
reports to the director.
   (c)   Reports on compliance with categorical pretreatment standard deadline.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
categorical pretreatment standards, or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to such pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the director a
report containing the information described in subsection (a)(2)d. through f.
of this section. For users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c), this report
shall contain a reasonable measure of the user's long-term production rate. For
all other users subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed in
terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure
of operation), this report shall include the user's actual production during
the appropriate sampling period. All compliance reports must be signed and
certified in accordance with section
36-175(b)(3).
   (d)   Periodic compliance reports.
   (1)   All users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall, at a
frequency determined by the director but for SIU's in no case less than once
every six months, submit a report to the director indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the discharge which are limited by pretreatment
standards and the measured or applicable flows for the reporting period.
Sampling and analysis must be performed in accordance with procedures set out
in section
36-176(k) and (l) of this ordinance. All periodic compliance reports must be
signed and certified in accordance with section
36-175(3) of this ordinance.
   (2)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring and flow measurement facility in good
working order shall not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results
are not representative of its discharge.
   (3)   If a user subject to the reporting requirement in this section
monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the director, using the
procedures prescribed in subsection (j) of this section, the results of this
monitoring shall be included in the report.
   (e)   Reports of changed conditions. Each user must notify the director of
any planned significant changes to the user's operations or system which might
alter the nature, quality, or volume of its wastewater at least 45 days before
the change. The permittee shall not begin the changes until receiving written
approval from the control authority and/or the POTW, if different than the
control authority. See section
36-176(a)(2)f.4. for other reporting requirements.
   (1)   The director may require the user to submit such information as the
director may deem necessary to evaluate the changed condition, including the
submission of a wastewater discharge permit application under section
36-175(b).
   (2)   The director may issue a wastewater discharge permit under section
36-175(b) or modify an existing wastewater discharge permit under section
36-175(b) in response to changed conditions or anticipated changed conditions.
   (3)   For purposes of this requirement, significant changes include, but are
not limited to, flow or pollutant increases of 20 percent (20%) or greater, and
the discharge of any previously unreported pollutants; increases or decreases
in production; discharge of pollutants not previously reported to the control
authority and/or POTW; new or changed product lines; new or changed
manufacturing processes; or new or changed chemicals used or stored.
   (f)   Reports of potential problems.
   (1)   In the case of any discharge, including, but not limited to,
accidental discharges, discharges of a nonroutine, episodic nature, a
noncustomary batch discharge, or a slug load as defined in section
36-172: Definitions, "Slug Load or Discharge" that may cause potential problems
for the POTW, the user shall immediately notify the director by telephone of
the discharge. This notification shall include the location of the discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, if known, and corrective actions taken
by the user.
   (2)   Within five days following such discharge, the user shall, unless the
user receives a written waiver from the director, submit a detailed written
report describing the cause(s) of the discharge and the measures taken, or to
be taken, by the user to prevent future similar occurrences. Such notification
shall not relieve the user of any liability for any expense, loss, damage,
personal injury, or other claim which may be suffered or incurred as a result
of damage to the POTW, damage to natural resources, or any other damage to
person or property; nor shall such notification relieve the user of any fines,
penalties, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this division.
   (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user's bulletin board or
some other prominent place advising employees of whom to call in the event of a
discharge described in subsection (f)(1) above. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause such a discharge to occur are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (4)   All SIUs are required to notify the director immediately of any
changes at its facility affecting the potential for spills and other accidental
discharge, discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, a non-customary batch,
or slug load as defined in section
36-172 Definitions: "Slug Load of Discharge".
   (g)   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate reports to the director
as the director may require. All users classified as non-significant
categorical industrial users under section 36-187 of this division shall
provide appropriate reports to the director as the director may require. At a
minimum this shall include the annual certification of continuing to meet the
non-significant categorical industrial user criteria as required under 40 CFR
403.12(q).
   (h)   Notice of violation/repeat sampling and reporting. If sampling
performed by a user indicates noncompliance or any other violation, the user
must notify the director within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also immediately repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the director within 30 days after becoming
aware of the violation. If allowed by the director, the user is not required to
resample:
   1.   If the director monitors at the user's facility at least once a month,
   2.   If the director samples between the user's initial sampling and the
time when the user receives the results of this sampling.
   (i)   Control authority repeat sampling in lieu of permittee self-
monitoring. If the director does not require the user to perform any self-
monitoring and the POTW sampling of the user indicates a violation, the
director shall repeat the sampling and obtain the results of the repeat
analysis within thirty (30) days after becoming aware of the violations, unless
one of the following occurs:
   1.   The director monitors at the user's facility at least once a month; or
   2.   The director samples the user between their initial sampling and when
the POTW receives the results of this initial sampling; or
   3.   The director requires the user to perform sampling and submit the
results to the director with the 30 day deadline of the POTW becoming aware of
the violation.
   (j)   Notification of discharge of hazardous waste.
   (1)   If a user wishes to commence discharge of a substance which, if
otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous waste under 40 CFR 261, such user
shall not commence such discharge until written approval from the director has
been received, unless such discharge is exempt under subsection (j)(2) below.
To obtain such approval, the user shall notify the director, the EPA regional
waste management division director, and state hazardous waste authorities, in
writing, of the desired discharge, and make application to the director for
approval of such discharge. Such notification must include the name of the
hazardous waste, as set forth in 40 CFR 261, the EPA hazardous waste number,
and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or other) proposed. If the user
desires to discharge more than 100 kilograms of such waste per calendar month
to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the following information, to
the extent such information is known and readily available to the user:
      a.   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes;
      b.   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in
the wastestream discharge during the first calendar month; and
      c.   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the wastestream
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
      All notifications and applications must be submitted to the director for
his review and assessment at least 180 days prior to the date the user desires
to commence the discharge. The user shall not begin the discharge until
receiving written approval from the director. The notification and application
under this paragraph need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharge; however, notifications of changed conditions must be submitted under
subsection (e) of this section. The notification and director approval
requirement in this section does not apply to pollutants already reported by
industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards under the self-
monitoring requirements of subsections (a), (c), and (d) of this section.
   (2)   Users are exempt from the requirements of subsection (j)(1) above for
discharges that contain 15 kilograms or less of hazardous wastes, unless the
wastes are acute hazardous wastes, as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33
(e). The discharge of more than 15 kilograms of nonacute hazardous wastes in a
calendar month, or the discharge of any quantity of acute hazardous wastes, as
specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e), requires the prior written
approval of the director.
   (3)   In the case of any new regulation under section 3001 of the RCRA
identifying additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any
additional substance as a hazardous waste, the user must notify the director,
the EPA regional waste management waste division director, and state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the
effective date of such regulations.
   (4)   In the case of any notification and application made under this
section, the user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
   (5)   This subsection does not create a right to discharge any substance not
otherwise permitted to be discharged by this division, a permit issued
thereunder, or any applicable federal or state law.
   (k)   Analytical requirements. All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, to be submitted as part of a wastewater discharge permit
application or report shall be performed by a laboratory certified by the state
to perform the wastewater analyses in accordance with the techniques prescribed
in 40 CFR 136, unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard or otherwise performed in accordance with procedures
approved by EPA or the director. If 40 CFR 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must
be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA and the
director.
   (l)   Grab and composite sample collection.
   (i)   All wastewater samples must be representative of the user's discharge.
Wastewater monitoring and flow measurement facilities shall be properly
operated, kept clean, and maintained in good working order at all times. The
failure of a user to keep its monitoring facility in good working order shall
not be grounds for the user to claim that sample results are unrepresentative
of its discharge.
   (ii)   Grab samples must be used for temperature, pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, volatile organic compounds, and any other
pollutants as required by 40 CFR 136. The POTW shall determine the number of
grabs necessary to be representative of the user's discharge. See 40 CFR 403.12
(g)(5) for additional grab sample number requirements for BMR and 90 Day
Compliance Reports. Additionally, the [POTW director] may allow collection of
multiple grabs during a 24-hour period which are composited prior to analysis
as allowed under 40 CFR 136.
   (iii)   Composite samples: All wastewater composite samples shall be
collected with a minimum of hourly aliquots or grabs for each hour that there
is a discharge. All wastewater composite samples shall be collected using flow
proportional composite collection techniques, unless time-proportional
composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the [POTW director]. When
authorizing time-proportional composites or grabs, the samples must be
representative and the decision to allow the alternative sampling must be
documented.
   (m)   Timing. Written reports to the director shall be deemed to have been
submitted on the date postmarked. For reports which are not deposited, postage
prepaid, into a mail facility serviced by the United States Postal Service, the
date of receipt of the report by the director shall govern.
   (n)   Recordkeeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
division shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this division and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include:
   (1)   The date, exact place, method, and time of sampling;
   (2)   The name of the person(s) taking the samples;
   (3)   The dates analyses were performed;
   (4)   Identification of the person(s) who performed the analyses;
   (5)   The analytical techniques or methods used; and
   (6)   The results of such analyses.
These records shall remain available for a period of at least three (3) years.
This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation
concerning the user or the town, or where the user has been specifically
notified of a longer retention period by the director.
   (o)   Electronic reporting. The director may develop procedures for receipt
of electronic reports for any reporting requirements of this ordinance. Such
procedures shall comply with 40 CFR Part 3. These procedures shall be
enforceable under section
36-179.
   (p)   Special reporting requirements for industrial users in satellite
POTWs. In the case of industrial users located in satellite POTW organization's
jurisdiction, all information required to be reported to the industrial user's
pretreatment program control authority shall be reported to the POTW treatment
plant organization.
(Code 1982, § 19-94; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 06-004, 3-9-2006;
Ord. No. 2007-20, 12-13-2007; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-177. Compliance monitoring.
   (a)   Monitoring facilities. The user shall provide and operate, at the
user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and
flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. The
monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the
town may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship for
the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk
area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (1)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (2)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the town's
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the town.
   (3)   The director may designate a minimum frequency for calibration of
monitoring equipment; however, the user is responsible for ensuring the
accuracy of the equipment at all times.
   (b)   Inspection and sampling. The town may inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the purposes of this division are being met and
whether all requirements of the division, and permits and orders issued
hereunder, are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the town, approval authority
and EPA, or their representatives, ready access to all parts of the premises
for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, or
for the performance of any of their duties. Such access shall be given to the
town, approval authority and EPA Monday through Friday during regular business
hours and at all other times the user is discharging to the POTW. The town,
approval authority and EPA shall have the right to set up, on the user's
property, such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection,
compliance monitoring and metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into the user's premises, the user shall make necessary
arrangements with their security guards so that, upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the town, approval authority and EPA shall be
permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities. Denial of the town’s, approval authority's, or EPA's
access to the user's premises shall be a violation of this division.
Unreasonable delays in permitting entry may constitute denial of access.
   (c)   Search warrants/administrative inspection warrants. If the town,
approval authority, or EPA has been refused access to a building, structure, or
property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable cause to
believe that there may be a violation of this division, or that there is a need
to inspect or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program of
the town designed to verify compliance with this division or any permit or
order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and
welfare of the community, then the town, approval authority, or EPA may seek
issuance of a search warrant or administrative inspection warrant from a
magistrate, clerk of court, district court judge or superior court judge in the
county.
(Code 1982, § 19-95; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-
2011)
Sec. 36-178. Confidential information.
   (a)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits, reports and monitoring programs, and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests, and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the director, that the release of such
information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user. Any such request must be
asserted by the user at the time of, or prior to, initial submission of the
information or data to the director.
   (b)   When timely requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions
of a report which might disclose trade secrets shall not be made available for
inspection by the public, but shall be made available to governmental agencies,
upon their written request, for uses related to this division, the national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, nondischarge permit and/
or pretreatment program. The alleged trade secret portions of a report shall
also be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review
or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be recognized as trade
secrets.
   (c)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards and
requirements shall be made available to officials of the approval authority and
EPA, upon request.
(Code 1982, § 19-96; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-
2011)
   State law reference—Trade secrets not public records, G.S. 132-1.2.
Sec. 36-179. Enforcement.
   (a)   Administrative remedies.
   (1)   Notification of violation. Whenever the director finds that any person
has violated or is violating this division, a wastewater discharge permit, or
any prohibition, limitation or requirement contained therein, the director may
serve upon such person a written notice stating the nature of the violation
("notice of violation"). Within 30 days of the date of the notice of violation,
a plan for the satisfactory correction of the violation shall be submitted to
the town by the person. Submission of this plan does not relieve the person of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of
violation.
   (2)   Consent orders. The director is hereby authorized and empowered to
enter into consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar
agreements with any person responsible for violation of, or noncompliance with,
this division or a permit issued hereunder (hereafter referred to as
noncompliance). Such orders shall specify action to be taken by the person to
correct the noncompliance within a time period that shall be specified in the
order. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as an administrative
order issued pursuant to subsection
36-179(a)(4) below.
   (3)   Show cause hearing. The director may order any user who causes or is
responsible for an unauthorized discharge, who has violated this division or is
in noncompliance with a wastewater discharge permit, to show cause why a
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. In the event the director
determines that a show cause order should be issued, a notice that
substantially notifies the user of the specific time and place for the hearing,
the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request
that the user show cause why this proposed enforcement action should not be
taken shall be issued by the director ("show cause hearing notice"). The show
cause hearing notice shall be served on the user at least ten days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation. The
director shall review the evidence presented at the hearing and shall determine
whether the proposed enforcement action is appropriate. A show cause hearing
under this section is not a prerequisite to the assessment of a civil penalty
under section
36-179(b), nor is any action or inaction taken by the director under this
section subject to an administrative appeal under section 36-188.
   (4)   Administrative orders. When the director, or his duly authorized
representative, finds that a user has violated or continues to violate this
division, the prohibitions or discharge limitations of this division, or those
contained in any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, the
director, or his duly authorized representative, may issue an order to cease
and desist, and direct those persons in noncompliance to do any of the
following:
      a.   Immediately comply with all requirements;
      b.   Comply in accordance with a compliance time schedule set forth in
the order;
      c.   Take appropriate remedial or preventative action in the event of a
continuing or threatened violation;
      d.   Disconnect from the POTW, or cease discharging into the POTW, unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances are
installed and properly operated within a specified time period.
   (5)   Emergency suspensions. The director, or his duly authorized
representative, may suspend wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater
discharge permit when the director believes suspension is necessary in order to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, interferes with the POTW, or causes the POTW to violate any
condition of its NPDES permit. Any user notified of a suspension of their
wastewater treatment service and/or their wastewater discharge permit shall
immediately stop or eliminate the discharge. A hearing shall be held within 15
days of the notice of suspension to determine whether the suspension may be
lifted or the user's wastewater discharge permit terminated. In the event of a
failure of the person to comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the
director shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW
system or endangerment to any person or property. The director shall reinstate
the wastewater discharge permit and the wastewater treatment service upon proof
of the elimination of the noncompliant discharge and the payment of all user
charges, surcharges, penalties and other costs assessed hereunder. The user
shall submit a detailed written statement describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence to the
director prior to the date of the above-described hearing.
   (6)   Termination of permit or permission to discharge. Any user who
violates any condition of this division, or applicable state or federal
regulations, is subject to having its permit terminated. The director may
revoke a wastewater discharge permit or permission to discharge for good cause,
including, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      a.   Failure to factually and accurately report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of the user's discharge;
      b.   Failure to report significant changes in operations, or wastewater
constituents and characteristics;
      c.   Refusal to allow reasonable access to the user's premises to the
director, approval authority, or EPA for the purpose of inspection or
monitoring; or
      d.   Violation of conditions of the wastewater discharge permit or
permission to discharge, conditions of this ordinance, or any applicable state
or federal regulations.
         Noncompliant users shall be notified of the proposed termination of
their wastewater discharge permit and will be offered an opportunity to show
cause under this subsection (a) why the proposed action should not be taken.
   (b)   Civil penalties. Any user who is found to have failed to comply with
any provision of this division, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits
issued hereunder, may be assessed a civil penalty by the director up to
$25,000.00 per day per violation. Penalties between $10,000.00 and $25,000.00
per day per violation may be assessed against a violator only if:
      i.   For any class of violation, only if a civil penalty has been imposed
against the violator within the five years preceding the violation, or
      ii.   In the case of failure to file, submit, or make available, as the
case may be, any documents, data, or reports required by this ordinance, or the
orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, only if the POTW
director determines that the violation was intentional and a civil penalty has
been imposed against the violator with the five years preceding the violation.
      Such assessments may be added to the user's next scheduled sewer service
charges and the POTW, in addition to all other remedies, shall have such
remedies for the collection of such assessments as it has for collection of
other service charges.
   (c)   Penalty determination. In determining the amount of the civil penalty,
the director shall consider the following:
   (1)   The degree and extent of the harm to natural resources, the public
health, or to public or private property resulting from the violation;
   (2)   The duration and gravity of the violation;
   (3)   The effect on ground or surface water quantity or quality or on air
quality;
   (4)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
   (5)   The amount of money the user saved by noncompliance;
   (6)   Whether the violation was committed willfully or intentionally;
   (7)   The prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply
with the pretreatment program;
   (8)   Other fines and penalties assessed to user for previous violations;
and
   (9)   The costs of enforcement to the town.
   (d)   Other available remedies. Remedies, in addition to those previously
mentioned in this division, are available to the director who may use any
single one or combination thereof against a noncompliant person or user.
Additional available remedies include, but are not limited to:
   (1)   Criminal violations. The district attorney for the 10th Judicial
District (the judicial district encompassing the county) may, at the request of
the town, prosecute noncompliant persons and users who violate the provisions
of G.S. 143-215.6B.
   (2)   Injunctive relief. Whenever a user is in violation of the provisions
of this division or an order or permit issued hereunder, the director, through
the town attorney, may petition the county superior court for the issuance of a
restraining order or a preliminary and permanent injunction, which restrains or
compels the activities in question.
   (3)   Water supply severance. Whenever a user or person is in violation of
the provisions of this division or an order or permit issued hereunder, water
service to the user or person may be severed and service will only recommence,
at the user's or person's expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated
ability to comply.
   (4)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or discharge
limitations of this division, or of a permit or order issued hereunder, is
hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed
by the director. Any person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to
the provisions of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Cary governing such
nuisances, including reimbursing the town for any costs incurred in removing,
abating or remedying such nuisance.
   (5)   Remedies nonexclusive. The remedies provided for in this division are
not exclusive. The director may take any, all, or any combination of these
actions against a noncompliant user or other person. Enforcement of
pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the town's
enforcement response plan; however, the director may take other action against
any user or other person when the circumstances warrant. Further, the director
is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any noncompliant
user of the POTW and sewer collection system.
(Code 1982, § 19-97; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 02-011, 4-11-2002;
Ord. No. 06-004, 3-9-2006; Ord. No. 2007-20, 12-13-2007; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09,
12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-180. Annual publication of significant noncompliance.
   At least annually, the director shall publish in a newspaper of general
circulation that provides meaningful public notice within the jurisdiction(s)
served by the POTW, a list of those industrial users which were found to be in
significant noncompliance, also referred to as reportable noncompliance in 15A
NCAC 2H .0903(b)(10), with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements,
during the previous 12 months.
(Code 1982, § 19-98; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 2007-20, 12-13-2007;
Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-181. Affirmative defenses to discharge violations.
   (a)   Upset.
   (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
of subsection (2) below, are met.
   (2)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other
relevant evidence, that:
      a.   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
      b.   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      c.   The user has submitted the following information to the director
within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         1.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
         2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (3)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (4)   Users shall have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any
claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (5)   Users shall control production of all discharges to the extent
necessary to maintain compliance with categorical pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost, or fails.
   (b)   Prohibited discharge standards defense. A user shall have an
affirmative defense to an enforcement action brought against it for
noncompliance with the general prohibitions in section
36-173(1) of this division or the specific prohibitions in section
36-173(2)(b), (c), and (e-g) of this division if it can prove that it did not
know, or have reason to know, that its discharge, alone or in conjunction with
discharges from other sources, would cause pass-through or interference and
that either:
   (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was in
compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-through or
interference; or
   (2)   No local limit exists, but the discharge did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the user's prior discharge when the town was
regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit, and, in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable residual solids use or disposal
requirements.
   (c)   Bypass.
   (1)   Allowance. A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause
pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is
for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of this subsection.
   (2)   Notice. Notice of a bypass shall be provided as follows:
      a.   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit
prior notice to the director at least ten days before the date of the bypass,
if possible.
      b.   A user shall submit oral notice to the director of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24 hours of the
time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be
provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. The
written submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The director may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the oral
report has been received within 24 hours.
   (3)   Prohibited except in certain cases.
      a.   Bypass is prohibited, and the director may take an enforcement
action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         3.   The user submitted notices as required under subsection (2) of
this subsection.
      b.   The director may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects, if the director determines that it will meet the three
conditions listed in subsection (c)(3)a.1. through 3. of this section.
(Code 1982, § 19-99; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 02-011, 4-11-2002;
Ord. No. 2007-20, 12-13-2007; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-182. Notices.
   (a)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, any notice required or
permitted to be given by the director or the town pursuant to this division
shall be deemed to have been properly given on the date it is deposited in the
U.S. mail, postage prepaid, and addressed to the user or applicant at the
address shown on any application, permit, bill, or other information available
to the director.
   (b)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, any notice required or
permitted to be given by a user or applicant shall be deemed to have been
properly given when received by the director.
   (c)   Unless specifically provided otherwise, any notice or communication
required or permitted to be served pursuant to this division shall be deemed to
have been properly served if personally delivered to or served upon the user or
applicant; or, if mailed registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, and delivered to the user or applicant; or by any other method of
service set forth in Rule 4 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
(Code 1982, § 19-100; Ord. No. 94-036, 12-8-1994; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-
2011)
Sec. 36-183. Fat, oil, and grease control.
   (a)   Scope and purpose. The objective of this section is to aid in
preventing the introduction and accumulation of fats, oils, and greases into
the municipal wastewater system which will or tend to cause or contribute to
sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions. Food service establishments and
other industrial or commercial establishments generating wastewater containing
fats, oils or greases are subject to this section. This section regulates such
users by requiring that grease interceptors and other approved strategies be
installed, implemented, and maintained in accordance with the provisions
hereof.
   (b)   Definitions. The definitions contained in section
36-172 and the following terms, when used in this section, shall apply.
   Action level means the concentration based numeric value that the grease
interceptor effluent, at the device's outlet tee and prior to mixing with any
other waste water from the contributing establishment's property, are expected
to achieve on a consistent or stipulated basis.
   Common interceptor means one or more interceptors receiving FOG laden
wastewater from more than one establishment. Common interceptors may be located
at shopping centers, malls, entertainment complexes, sporting arenas, hotels,
multi-tenant "flex" spaces, mixed use spaces, and other sites where multiple
establishments are connected to a single grease interceptor. The owner of the
property on which the common grease interceptor is located shall be primarily
responsible for the maintenance, upkeep, and repair of the common interceptor.
   Fats, oils, and greases means organic polar compounds derived from animal
and/or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 CFR 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as "grease" or "greases" or "FOG".
   Food service establishments or "FSE" means those establishments primarily
engaged in activities of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for
consumption foodstuffs and that use one or more of the following preparation
activities: Cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling,
sauteing, rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling blanching,
roasting, toasting, or poaching, and infrared heating, searing, barbecuing, and
any other food preparation or serving activity that produces a consumable food
product in or on a receptacle requiring washing to be reused.
   FOG enforcement response plan means the document and written plan and
procedures by which the director implements an enforcement strategy applicable
to the FOG control and management program established herein. The plan applies
to FOG program violations and matters of program noncompliance. Stipulated
penalties for specific and programmatic infractions are addressed in the plan
and set forth in the town's annual budget ordinance. The director shall make
site and case specific determinations of program non-conformance in accordance
with this Division 2.
   Grease trap or interceptor means a device for separating waterborne greases
and grease complexes from wastewater and retaining such greases and grease
complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the sanitary
sewer collection and treatment system. Grease traps also serve to collect
solids that settle, generated by and from activities that subject users to this
section, prior to the water exiting the trap and entering the sanitary sewer
collection and treatment system. Grease traps and interceptors are sometimes
referred to herein as "grease interceptors".
   Minimum design capability means the design features of a grease interceptor
and its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases
and settled solids from grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public
sanitary sewer.
   Noncooking establishments means those establishments primarily engaged in
the preparation of precooked foodstuffs that do not include any form of
cooking, but that may produce a consumable food product in or on a receptacle
requiring washing to be reused.
   On-site grease interceptor treatment (sometimes "onsite treatment") means
mechanisms or procedures utilized by a user to treat grease interceptor
contents on the user's site, followed by the reintroduction of such treated
wastewater back into the interceptor. On-site grease interceptor treatment may
only be accomplished by a user if the user or the user's contract service
provider is permitted by the NC Division of Waste Management as a septage
management firm or service provider.
   Program acknowledgement certificate means program confirmation documentation
issued by the director. The user is required to keep program acknowledgement
certificate on premises and produce it upon request of Town of Cary.
   Service provider means any third party not in the employment of the user
that performs maintenance, repair, and other services on a user's grease
interceptor at the user's directive.
   User is as defined in section
36-172 for the purpose of this section. Users include property owners who
provide common interceptors for one or more independent establishments,
including tenants.
   (c)   Grease interceptor installation, maintenance, recordkeeping, and
grease removal.
   (1)   Grease interceptors shall be installed and maintained at the user's
expense, when a User operates a food service establishment. Grease interceptors
may be required in noncooking or cold dairy and frozen foodstuffs
establishments and other industrial or commercial establishments when the
establishment generates wastewater containing fat or grease and the director
determines an interceptor is necessary to prevent contribution or accumulation
of grease to the sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. Upon
notification by the director or designee that the user is subject to the terms
of an enforcement action, as stipulated in the FOG enforcement response plan,
said user shall not allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject
grease interceptor to exceed an establishment action level of 200 milligrams
per liter, expressed as hexane extractable material. All grease interceptors
shall be of a type, design, and capacity approved by the director and shall be
readily and easily accessible for maintenance and repair, including cleaning
and for town inspection. All grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied
of accumulated waste content as required in order to maintain minimum design
capability or effective volume of the grease interceptor, but not less often
than every 60 days or as permitted in a valid program modification. Users who
are required to pass wastewater through a grease interceptor shall:
      a.   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time of 24 minutes at
actual peak flow between the influent and effluent baffles, with 25 percent of
the total volume of the grease interceptor being allowed for any food-derived
solids to settle or accumulate and floatable grease-derived materials to rise
and accumulate, identified hereafter as a solids blanket and grease cap
respectively.
      b.   Remove any accumulated grease cap and solids blanket as required,
but at intervals of not longer than 60 days at the user's expense, or in
accordance with a valid program modification or other director's requirements.
Grease interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials, such as
grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags,
etc., which could settle into this solids blanket and thereby reduce the
effective volume of the grease interceptor.
      c.   If the user performs on-site grease interceptor treatment pursuant
to a modification granted under subsection
36-183(g)(5) below, user shall:
         1.   Prior to commencement of onsite treatment obtain written approval
by and from the director of all processes utilized in said onsite treatment.
         2.   If any pumped wastes or other materials removed from the grease
interceptor are treated in any fashion on-site and reintroduced back into the
grease interceptor as an activity of and after such on-site treatment, the user
shall meet the criteria contained in (c)(1)c.3. below.
         3.   Attain and adhere to the criteria listed below:
            a.   After 30 minutes of settling time, not more than 3.0 ml/L of
settlable solids, as measured in a one liter Imhoff cone shall be allowed, and;
            b.   Within and not more than 24 hours after onsite grease
interceptor servicing, not more than two inches of settlable solids and/or
grease shall be allowed to have accumulated therein as a result of said
operations.
            c.   Service vehicles and equipment used in onsite grease
interceptor servicing shall be registered with the utilities department, and as
required by the North Carolina Division of Waste Management.
            d.   When servicing grease interceptors service vehicles and
equipment shall have onboard, at all times, a certificate of approval for the
operations and methods used, issued by the director.
            e.   Any tanks, tankage, or vessel(s) associated with a
modification shall be empty upon arrival at the initial FSE user site for which
this modification is intended to be applied.
      d.   Operate and maintain the grease interceptor to achieve and
consistently maintain any applicable grease action level. "Consistent" shall
mean any wastewater sample taken from such grease interceptor must meet the
terms of numerical limit attainment described in subsection (c)(1). If a user
documents that conditions exist ("space constraints") on their establishment
site that limit the ability to locate a grease interceptor on the exterior of
the establishment, the user may request an interior location for the
interceptor. Such request shall contain the following information:
         1.   Location of town sewer main and easement in relation to available
exterior space outside building.
         2.   Existing plumbing layout at or in a site.
         3.   A statement of understanding, signed by the user or authorized
agent, acknowledging and accepting conditions director may place on permitting
an identified interior location. Conditions may include requirements to use
alternative mechanisms, devices, procedures, or operations relative to an
interior location.
         4.   Such other information as may be required by the director.
      e.   The use of biological or other additives as a grease degradation or
conditioning agent is permissible only upon prior written approval of the
director. Any user using biological or other additives shall maintain the trap
or interceptor in such a manner that attainment of any grease wastewater,
action level, solids blanket or grease cap criteria, goal or directive, as
measured from the grease interceptor outlet or interior, is consistently
achieved.
      f.   The use of automatic grease removal systems is permissible only upon
prior written approval of the director, the lead plumbing inspector of the
town, and the Wake County Department of Environmental Services or the US
Department of Agriculture. Any user using a grease interceptor located on the
interior of the site shall be subject to any operational requirements set forth
by the North Carolina Division of Waste Management. Any user using this
equipment shall operate the system in such a manner that attainment of the
grease wastewater discharge limit, as measured from the unit's outlet, is
consistently achieved as required by the director.
      g.   The director may make determinations of grease interceptor adequacy
need, design, appropriateness, application, location, modification(s), and
conditional usage based on review of all relevant information regarding grease
interceptor performance, facility site and building plan review by all
regulatory reviewing agencies and may require repairs to, or modification or
replacement of grease interceptors.
   (2)   The user shall maintain a written record of grease interceptor
maintenance for three years. All such records will be available for inspection
by the town at all times. These records shall include:
      a.   FSE name and physical location;
      b.   Date of grease interceptor service;
      c.   Time of grease interceptor service;
      d.   Name of grease interceptor service company;
      e.   Name and signature of grease interceptor service company agent
performing said service;
      f.   Established service frequency and type of service: full pumpout,
partial pumpout, on-site treatment (type of nature of operations);
      g.   Number and size of each grease interceptor serviced at FSE location;
      h.   Approximated amount, per best professional judgement of contract
service provider, of grease and solids removed from each grease interceptor;
      i.   Total volume of waste removed from each grease interceptor;
      j.   Destination of removed wastes, food solids, and wastewater disposal;
      k.   Signature and date of FSE personnel confirming service completion;
      l.   Such other information as required by director.
   (3)   No nongrease-laden sources are allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (4)   Access manholes shall have an installed diameter of 24 inches, a
maximum weight of 50 pounds, and shall be provided over each chamber, interior
baffle wall, and each sanitary tee. The access penetrations, commonly referred
to as "risers" into the grease interceptor shall also be, at a minimum, 24
inches in diameter. The access manholes shall extend at least to finished grade
and be designed and maintained to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The
manholes shall also have readily removable covers to facilitate inspection,
grease removal, and wastewater sampling activities.
   (5)   A user may request a modification to the following requirements of
this section. Such request for a modification shall be in writing and shall
provide the information set forth below.
      a.   The user's grease interceptor pumping frequency. The director may
modify the 60-day grease interceptor pump out frequency when the user provides
data, and performance criteria relative to the overall effectiveness of a
proposed alternate and such can be substantiated by the director. Proposed
alternatives may include: Grease interceptor pumping or maintenance matters,
bioremediation as a complement to grease interceptor maintenance, grease
interceptor selection and sizing criteria, onsite grease interceptor
maintenance, and specialized ware washing procedures.
      b.   Grease interceptor maintenance and service procedures. The director
may modify the method(s) or procedure(s) utilized service a grease interceptor
when the user provides data, and performance criteria relative to the overall
effectiveness of a proposed alternate method or procedure and such can be
substantiated by the director. If a modification to maintenance and service
procedures is permitted it shall be a conditional discharged permit approval.
      c.   Any modification must be approved by the director in written form
before implementation by the user or the user's designated service provider.
The user shall pay modification fees as set forth in the budget ordinance fee
schedule.
(Code 1982, § 19-104; Ord. No. 98-021, 12-10-1998; Ord. No. 06-014, 8-10-2006;
Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-2019)
Sec. 36-184. Severability.
   If any provision, paragraph, word, section or article of this division is
invalidated by any court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining provisions,
paragraphs, words, sections, and chapters shall not be affected and shall
continue in full force and effect.
(Ord. No. 06-004, 3-9-2006; Ord. No. 06-014, 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09,
12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-185. Conflict.
   All other ordinances and parts of other ordinances inconsistent or
conflicting with any part of this division are hereby repealed to the extent of
such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. No. 06-004, 3-9-2006; Ord. No. 06-014, 8-10-2006; Ord. No. 2011-Code-09,
12-15-2011)
Secs. 36-186. Amendment to certain sections of sewer use ordinance for users in
Kit Creek Pump Station Service Area.
   (a)   At present, the Triangle Wastewater Treatment Plant ("TWWTP'), owned
and operated by Durham County treats wastewater that flows to the Kit Creek
Pump Station ("KCPS") pursuant to an interlocal agreement. The interlocal
agreement imposes certain requirements on the town to ensure that the TWWTP
meets its requirements under its NPDES permit and state and federal laws and
regulations. To ensure that the town complies with its obligations under the
interlocal agreement and any permits, approvals or limits issued thereunder,
the following additional uniform requirements apply to users of the wastewater
collection and treatment system of the town discharging wastewater to the KCPS
and who are located in the KCPS Service Area. Such KCPS Service Area is
delineated on
Figure 1.
   (b)   Industrial Waste survey and local limits. In addition to the
requirements contained in Sec.
36-173(5), users in the KCPS Service Area are subject to the following
additional local limits that are more restrictive than those prescribed in Sec.
36-173(5):
Limits (mg/l) Pollutant
Limits (mg/l) Pollutant
250           BOD
0.000142      Mercury, total
0.003         Arsenic, total
0.003         Cadmium, total
0.061         Copper, total
0.021         Nickel, total
0.005         Silver, total
 
   (c)   Prohibited discharge standards. In addition to the requirements of
Sec.
36-173(2), no users in the KCPS Service Area shall discharge wastewater into
the POTW that contains, or has the characteristics of, the following:
   1.   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.5 or wastewater
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage to the POTW, or
equipment, unless permitted to do so.
   2.   Any wastewater containing mercury in concentrations greater than 142
ng/L as measured by EPA test method 1631 and sampled by EPA method 1669.
   (d)   Surcharges. In addition to the requirements of Sec.
36-174(c) all industrial users in the Kit Creek Pump Station Service Area are
subject to industrial waste surcharges on all discharges that exceed the
following levels or as specified in the Durham County Sewer Use Ordinance,
whichever is more stringent:
 
Parameter        Levels (mg/L)
BOD              >250
TSS              >180
Total Phosphorus >5
TKN              >40
 
   (e)   All requirements of the town sewer use ordinance that are not amended
by this Section
36-186 apply to users located in the KCPS Service Area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-20851.jpg]
 
Kit Creek Pump Station Service Area Figure 1
(Ord. No. 2009-Code-04, 3-12-2009; Ord. No. 2009-Code-10, 8-13-2009; Ord. No.
2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-187. Exceptions to definition of significant industrial user.
   Subject to Division approval under 15A NCAC 02H .0907(b), the control
authority may determine that:
   (a)   an industrial user meeting the criteria in part (1) and (2) of the
definition of significant industrial user contained in section
36-172 of this division, has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting
the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment standards or
requirements, the POTW's effluent limitations and conditions in its NPDES or
non-discharge permit, or to limit the POTW's sludge disposal options, and thus
is not a significant industrial user.
   (b)   an industrial user meeting the criteria in part (3) of the definition
of significant industrial user contained in section
36-172 of this division meets the requirements of 40 CFR Part 403.3(v)(2) and
thus is a non-significant categorical industrial user.
   (c)   an industrial user meeting the criteria in parts (1), (2), or (3) of
the definition of significant industrial user contained in section
36-172 of this division meets the requirements of 40 CFR Part 403.12(e)(3) and
thus is a middle tier significant industrial user. Sampling and inspection
requirements may be reduced as per 40 CFR Parts 403.8(f)(2)(v)(C) and 403.12(e)
(3).
(Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Sec. 36-188. Adjudicatory hearings.
   a.   Administrative hearings. An applicant who receives notice that an
application for a permit has been denied; an applicant who receives notice that
a permit has been granted subject to conditions the applicant deems
unacceptable; a user who receives notice of an assessment of a civil penalty
under section
36-179(b); or a user who receives notice of the issuance of an administrative
order under section
36-179(a)(4) (all of whom are hereafter referred to as "aggrieved applicant or
user") shall have the right, upon filing written demand, to a hearing before a
hearing officer designated by the director. In the absence of a designation by
the director, the hearing officer may be the town manager or assistant town
manager. Such written demand for a hearing shall identify with particularity
the aggrieved applicant or user contesting the action; the specific permit
provisions or conditions or other issues contested; the reasons for the
objection; and any alternate provisions, conditions or terms the aggrieved
applicant or user proposes. The written demand for a hearing shall be filed
with the director within 30 days of the date of the notice of the action that
is being contested. Unless such written demand is filed within the time
specified herein, the contested action shall be final and binding and further
appeal is barred. For modified permits, only those parts of the permit being
modified may be adjudicated. The hearing officer shall conduct a hearing and
make a final decision on the contested action within 45 days of the receipt of
the written demand for a hearing. The director shall serve a copy of the
hearing officer's decision (notice of the decision) on the aggrieved applicant
or user in accordance with section
36-182. The decision is a final decision for the purposes of seeking judicial
review. The terms and conditions of the permit under appeal shall be:
   1.   New permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the general
courts of justice, of the terms or conditions of a newly issued permit, the
terms and conditions of the entire permit shall be stayed and the permit shall
not be in effect until either the conclusion of the appeals process or until
the parties reach a mutually agreeable resolution.
   2.   Renewed permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the General
Courts of Justice, of the terms or conditions of a renewed permit, the terms
and conditions of the old permit shall remain in effect until either the
conclusion of the appeals process or until the parties reach a mutual
resolution; provided, however, that if an application for a renewed permit has
been denied, it shall be treated as a new permit.
   3.   Terminated permits. Upon appeal, including judicial review in the
General Courts of Justice, of a terminated permit, no permit is in effect until
either the conclusion of judicial review or until the parties reach a mutual
resolution.
   b.   Official record. When a decision by the hearing officer is appealed
under section
36-188(c) below, the hearing officer shall prepare an official record of the
case that includes:
   1.   All notices, motions, and other like pleadings.
   2.   A copy of all documentary evidence introduced.
   3.   A certified transcript of all testimony taken, if testimony is
transcribed. If testimony is taken and not transcribed, then a narrative
summary of any testimony taken.
   4.   A copy of the final decision of the hearing officer.
   c.   Judicial review. Any person against whom a final order or decision of
the hearing officer is entered pursuant to the hearing conducted under section
36-188(a) above may seek judicial review of the order or decision by filing a
written request within 30 days after the date of the notice of the decision,
but not thereafter, with the Superior Court of Wake County. A copy of the
written request shall be served on the town, in accordance with the rules of
civil procedure. Within 30 days after receipt of the copy of the written
request for judicial review, the hearing officer shall transmit to the
reviewing court the original official record, or a certified copy thereof,
unless otherwise agreed to by the parties or ordered by the court.
(Ord. No. 2011-Code-09, 12-15-2011)
Secs. 36-189—36-202. Reserved.
ARTICLE V. RECLAIMED WATER SYSTEM
Sec. 36-203. Purpose and intent.
   It is the town's purpose and intent to establish a reclaimed water system
and to extend such system to certain areas of the town where the town council
determines that the extension of such a system is practical and economical.
Once such reclaimed water is made available to a property, use of reclaimed
water will be required for landscape and grounds irrigation systems and will be
permitted for other authorized uses. The reclaimed water distribution system
will be constructed in sections and phases to provide reclaimed water service
to designated areas as determined by the town council and pursuant to the terms
and conditions set forth herein.
(Code 1982, § 19-10; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-204. Reclaimed water system part of town utility system and other
definitions.
   (a)   The reclaimed water system is a part of the town of Cary utility
system. Reclaimed water facilities are generally recognized by federal and
state regulations as part of the sewer system because of their reliance on
highly treated wastewater effluent as a supply source. Reclaimed water is,
however, a valuable resource that offsets potable water demand, and thus has a
relationship with both water and sewer systems. All provisions of Articles I,
II and III of Chapter 36, Utilities, shall apply to the reclaimed water system
unless otherwise indicated herein. To this end, the terms water system, water
pipe, town water, waterworks, water service, water distribution system, water,
water meters, water mains and other references to the water system contained in
Articles I, II and III shall be deemed to include and mean such portions of the
reclaimed water system, unless in conflict with the provisions contained in
this Article V, or specifically excluded herein. Among the sections that do not
apply to the reclaimed water system are sections 36-34 and 36-81.
   (b)   For the purpose of this article, the definitions contained in this
section shall apply unless otherwise specifically stated.
   Available means that a reclaimed water distribution main is or will be
located at a property line of a property on which an irrigation system is
installed or proposed, or a property proposed to be serviced with reclaimed
water.
   Cross-connection means any physical connection or arrangement which would
allow the movement of fluids between the potable water system and any other
piping system, such as the reclaimed water system.
   Customer means the town of Cary reclaimed water customer and the actual user
of the reclaimed water.
   Department means the department of utilities.
   Director means the Director of utilities of the town of Cary and his or her
designee.
   Distribution mains means those conduits used to supply reclaimed water to
service lines from transmission mains.
   Irrigation system means a device or combination of devices having a hose,
pipe, or other conduit installed in the landscape which transmits town water,
through which device or combination of devices town water, or a mixture of town
water and chemicals is drawn and applied to residential or commercial lawns,
landscapes or greenspace.
   North Carolina rules means the regulations for reclaimed water and water
reuse as stated in the North Carolina administrative code section 15A NCAC
2H.0200 as amended from time to time.
   Potable water means potable water treated, produced, purchased and/or
delivered by the town of Cary water system.
   Reclaimed water means water that has received at least advanced secondary
treatment, meets water quality requirements defined by the North Carolina rules
and is reused after flowing out of a wastewater treatment facility.
   Reclaimed water system means all equipment, piping, valves and associated
hardware and other appurtenances, including meters, from the customer's
reclaimed water meter back to, and including the reclaimed water production and
pumping facility.
   Service line means that conduit for reclaimed water from the distribution
main to the property line.
   Transmission mains means those conduits used to supply reclaimed water from
the pumping station or treatment plant to the distribution mains.
(Code 1982, § 19-106; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999; Ord. No. 2010-Code-07,
9-16-2010; Ord. No. 2018-Code-03, § 1, 6-28-2018; Ord. No. 2019-Code-04, 10-10-
2019)
Sec. 36-205. Generally.
   (a)   Once reclaimed water is available to property, the property owner may
connect to the reclaimed water system upon submission of a fully executed
application as required by the director, and upon compliance with all other
town requirements. Reclaimed water may be used for irrigation purposes and for
other nonpotable water purposes in accordance with federal, state and local
ordinances, rules, and regulations. If reclaimed water is to be used for any
purpose other than land irrigation, the customer shall obtain prior approval of
such use from the director.
   (b)   As an incentive to development of an initial demonstration phase of
this project, customers that have signed letters of intent for the initial
phase of the reclaimed water project may have conditions in their agreements
with the town that are different from the conditions in this article.
(Code 1982, § 19-107; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-206. Mandatory use of reclaimed water for irrigation systems.
   It is unlawful to use potable water for irrigation systems 90 days after a
property owner or water customer has been notified by the director that
reclaimed water is available to a particular property or site ("notification of
availability").
(Code 1982, § 19-108; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-207. Connection to reclaimed water system.
   (a)   Customers with existing irrigation systems. When reclaimed water
becomes available to a property, the director shall provide written notice to
the town water customer located on that property of such availability.
Customers with existing irrigation systems using potable water who desire to
continue to maintain such systems using town water, must apply for reclaimed
water in accordance with the application procedures specified in this article
and must disconnect said systems from the town potable water system and connect
to the reclaimed water system within 90 days of such written notice of
availability. The director shall have the authority to grant temporary
exemptions from this section in the event of reclaimed water shortages or for
other good cause, in which case the temporary exemption shall not exceed 180
days.
   (b)   Customers with new irrigation systems. All new irrigation systems
designed to use town water constructed after the effective date of this article
must connect to the reclaimed water system at construction, if reclaimed water
is available to the property. Such connection must be made prior to, or
contemporaneously with connection of other improvements on the property to the
town's potable water system. If reclaimed water is not available to a property
at the time of construction of an irrigation system, connection to the
reclaimed water system must be made within 90 days of notice of availability
from the director.
(Code 1982, § 19-109; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-208. Reclaimed water service application requirements.
   Applications for reclaimed water service shall be made and will be accepted
in the same manner as applications for water and sewer service, subject to the
provisions of this article. articles I, II, and III of chapter
36, Utilities outlines the requirements for service. In addition, the town of
Cary finance department and the department of development services, inspections
and permits division have specific procedures and policies in place for
servicing, regulating, billing, and collecting of bills of utility customers.
Such policies, along with all policies and procedures concerning enforcement
and fining and setting standards for the design and installation utility
pipelines and other appurtenances apply to the reclaimed water system,
including its design, installation, and maintenance.
(Code 1982, § 19-110; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-209. Installation of lines and easement dedications.
   The town will be responsible for reclaimed water service lines to the
applicant's property line, provided easements or other access is available to
the town. The applicant shall be responsible for all costs and expenses of
installation and maintenance of the reclaimed water line and all appurtenances
from their property line on their property. In the event the town is required
to locate the reclaimed water meter or any other part of the town reclaimed
water system on applicant's property, the applicant shall dedicate land or
perpetual easements on, over and through applicant's land for the reclaimed
water transmission and distribution facilities as necessary to provide
reclaimed water service to applicant's property. No reclaimed water lines or
other facilities will be installed or accepted by the town for maintenance
unless such lines or facilities are in a dedicated public right-of-way or
dedicated public easement. Any new easement shall be adequately sized to
accommodate construction and maintenance of the reclaimed water line or system
component. No obstruction of any kind shall be planted, built, or otherwise
created within the limits of the easement or right-of-way without written
permission of the director. Details of the town's requirements for easements
can be found in this chapter, utilities and the applicable sections of the
towns technical specifications. Delays by applicant in granting easements or
dedications will result in the loss of potable water for irrigation, if more
than 90 days have passed from notification of availability and if no good cause
is shown for the failure to grant the necessary easements.
(Code 1982, § 19-111; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-210. Meter requirements.
   Metering of reclaimed water is mandatory. There will be no exceptions to
this requirement. Metering requirements are outlined in this chapter and in the
towns standard_specifications.
(Code 1982, § 19-112; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-211. Permits.
   All applicants for reclaimed water, at the applicant's own cost and expense,
shall apply for, obtain and meet all requirements of all necessary permits,
licenses, conditions, and approvals for the initial construction and the
operation of the onsite reclaimed water facilities and the use of reclaimed
water.
(Code 1982, § 19-113; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-212. Authority to adopt rules and regulations.
   The town council may by resolution establish reasonable rules and
regulations concerning the reclaimed water system and the use of reclaimed
water. Additional standard policies and procedures may be adopted concerning
the reclaimed water system. Insofar as there is not conflict with the
provisions of this article, town policies and procedures pertaining to potable
water service shall apply.
(Code 1982, § 19-114; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-213. Authority to adopt rates, fees and charges.
   The town council may by resolution, duly adopted after a public hearing,
establish rates, fees and charges for the reclaimed water system and provide
terms and conditions for the payment and collection of same. After the initial
establishment of a reclaimed water rate, and fee or charge for connection to
the reclaimed water system, these rates, fees and charges will normally be
reviewed and adjusted annually as part of the annual budgeting cycle, as
provided in article I.
(Code 1982, § 19-115; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-214. Priorities for extending reclaimed water service.
   The town council will establish priorities for extension of the reclaimed
water system, as it does for water and sewer system extensions. The town
council may establish priorities for extension of service outside the utility
service boundaries. Provision of reclaimed water service outside the town
limits will be considered on a case-by-case basis and may be time limited to
benefit the town.
(Code 1982, § 19-116; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-215. Conditions of reclaimed water service use.
   (a)   General. The town may terminate, discontinue, or suspend reclaimed
water service in accordance with this chapter and town policies and procedures
in the event of (i) a violation of this article or town regulations, policies
or procedures, (ii) failure to pay bills by the due date, (iii) tampering with
any utility service, (iv) the existence of a plumbing cross-connections with
another water source, or (v) any customer condition or action that may be
detrimental to the town's potable water system, its reclaimed water system, or
its wastewater collection and treatment system. The town may, at its option,
suspend service until the condition is corrected and all costs due the town are
paid. These costs may include delinquent billings, connection charges, and
payment for any damages caused to the potable water, reclaimed water, or
wastewater collection or water distribution system The details of the town's
procedures for discontinuing service are found in this chapter and in
appropriate town policies and finance department procedures.
   (b)   Cross-connection control. There shall be no cross connections between
the reclaimed water system on a customer's property and the town potable water
system. In all premises where reclaimed water service is provided, the public
or private potable water supply shall be protected by an approved cross-
connection_control_plan [definition]. The plan for cross-connection_control 
[definition] must be submitted with the application for reclaimed water service
and must receive the prior approval of the director. In the event a cross-
connection is found, the cross-connection shall be immediately disconnected,
and reclaimed water service will be suspended. Before reconnection of the
reclaimed water service, the public potable water system shall be protected
against the possibility of future cross connections to the director's
satisfaction. Additional protection against cross-connection may be required as
specified by the director at the customer's expense before reclaimed water
service is resumed.
   (c)   Right of entry. In addition to the authority to enter property
contained in section
36-12, the director may enter any premises to determine the presence of any
cross connections or other potential hazards to the town potable water system.
Each customer of reclaimed water service shall, by completing the reclaimed
water application, give written consent to such entry upon the customer's
premises.
(Code 1982, § 19-117; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-216. Service interruption.
   The town reserves the right to temporarily discontinue service to any
portion or all of the reclaimed water system as deemed necessary by the
director. In addition, the director shall have the authority to establish
schedules which restrict the use of reclaimed water at certain times in order
to reduce maximum pressure demands on the system and to regulate usage during
periods of limited reclaimed water availability. This authority is in addition
to the water conservation provisions of article III of this chapter, and the
disclaimer of liability contained in section
36-10.
(Code 1982, § 19-118; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-217. Maintenance by customer.
   The property owner and/or customer shall be responsible for the maintenance
of all reclaimed water lines and appurtenances on the customer's property,
unless the meter was, of necessity, located beyond the customer's property
line, in which case the customer shall be responsible for all reclaimed water
lines and appurtenances beyond the meter. The town reserves the right to
disconnect the service to any property when the reclaimed water system and
appurtenances are not properly maintained. In addition, should the customer
require reclaimed water at different pressures, or different quality, or in any
way different from that normally supplied by the town, the customer shall be
responsible for the necessary devices to make adjustments and for obtaining
approval by the director.
(Code 1982, § 19-119; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-218. Conservation of water resources.
   It is the policy of the town of Cary to wisely use natural resources. In
addition to all other conservation measures contained in this chapter the town
may terminate, suspend or discontinue reclaimed water service if customer usage
of reclaimed water varies substantially from the overall loading rates outlined
in the customer's application for service.
(Code 1982, § 19-120; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-219. Right to refuse service.
   The town makes no guarantees that reclaimed water service will be provided,
or, once provided, continued. The town may, at any time, and from time to time,
refuse to extend or suspend or terminate service on the basis of a use
detrimental to the system, an inadequate supply of reclaimed water, the failure
to pay required fees, or for any other reason which, in the judgment of the
director, will cause the extension not to be to the benefit of the town.
(Code 1982, § 19-121; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
Sec. 36-220. Ownership by town.
   In accordance with articles I, II and III, all reclaimed water facilities
and appurtenances within dedicated public easements when constructed or
accepted by the town, shall become and remain the property of the town. No
person shall by payment of any charges provided herein, or by causing any
construction of facilities accepted by the town, acquire any interest or right
in any of these facilities or any portion thereof, other than the privilege of
having their property connected thereto for reclaimed water service in
accordance with this article and any amendments thereof.
(Code 1982, § 19-122; Ord. No. 99-013, § 1, 8-12-1999)
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLES
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE, 1976 CODE
   This table gives the location within this Code of those sections of the 1976
Code that are included herein.
1976 Code Section Section this Code
1976 Code Section Section this Code
1-1               1-1
1-2(a)(1--32)     1-2
1-3               1-2,
                  1-3
1-5, 1-6          1-3,
                  1-4
1-7               1-10
1-9               1-6
1-10              1-9
1-11              1-5
                  1-7
1-12              20-1
1-13              2-1
1-14              1-2
2-1               2-29
2-5               2-30
2-6               2-32
2-7               2-34
2-9               2-39
2-14              2-35
2-15              2-33
2-16              2-36
2-17              2-38
2-19, 2-20        2-162—
                  2-165
2-21              2-37
2-22              2-31
2-23              2-72
2-24              2-74, 2-75
2-25              2-73
2-31              2-71
5-4               20-3
7-1--7-4          12-22--
                  12-25
7-5               12-29
7-6--7-8          12-26--
                  12-28
8-1, 8-2          16-19,
                  16-20
8-4               16-21
8-8, 8-9          16-22,
                  16-23
8-11, 8-12        8-53,
                  8-54
8-26              16-2
10-1              22-78
10-4              22-79
10-6              22-50
10-7              12-47
10-9              12-47
10-10--10-12      12-49--
                  12-51
10-16             28-1
10-17             22-23
10-24             22-1
12-1              2-144
12-2              2-146
12-3              2-148
12-4              2-145
12-5              2-147
12-6              2-149
13-1              28-3
13-4              28-2
14-6              8-24
14-8              8-23
14-9              8-21,
                  8-22
14-10--14-13      28-41--
                  28-44
14-14             28-129
14-15, 14-16      28-131,
                  28-132
14-18, 14-19      28-134,
                  28-135
14-20             28-130
14-21             28-133
14-22             28-66
14-23             28-69
14-24             28-68
14-25             28-46
14-26             28-45
14-27             28-4
14-28             28-5
14-30             28-7
14-33             28-8
14-35             28-10
14-36             28-9
                  28-11
14-37(1--4)       28-97
14-38             28-98
14-39             28-100
14-40             28-99
14-44, 14-45      34-175,
                  34-176
14-48             22-2
14-50             8-54
15-2(1--3)        8-1
15-5--15-8        2-129--
                  2-132
15-9              8-52
15-60             14-19
16-1(1--28)       34-1
16-2              30-1
16-7              34-2
16-9              34-3
16-10             34-1
16-10, 16-11      34-4,
                  34-5
16-17, 16-18      34-67,
                  34-68
16-20--16-23      34-69--
                  34-72
16-26, 16-27      34-73,
                  34-74
16-29             34-110
16-32             34-147
16-33, 16-34      34-144,
                  34-145
16-35             34-142
16-37             34-148
16-38             34-109
16-39             34-143
16-40, 16-41      34-149,
                  34-150
16-45, 16-46      34-94,
                  34-95
16-47             34-97
16-49             34-96
16-50--16-55      34-98--
                  34-103
16-57--16-61      34-6--
                  34-10
16-62—16-64     34-13,
                  34-14
16-65             34-104
16-67--16-70      34-105--
                  34-108
16-71             34-111
16-72             34-146
16-95--16-98      34-241--
                  34-244
16-99             34-246
16-100            34-245
16-101--16-106    34-247--
                  34-252
17-1              36-74
17-2              36-150
17-3--17-6        36-3--
                  36-6
17-7              36-75
17-8              36-7
17-9              36-76
17-10             36-8
17-12             36-9
17-13             36-79
17-15             36-10
17-16             36-1
17-17             36-73
17-18             36-72
17-19             36-151
17-20--17-22      36-34--
                  36-36
17-29             36-2
17-31, 17-32      36-112,
                  36-113
17-33             36-117
17-35--17-37      36-114--
                  36-116
 
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE, 1982 CODE
   This table gives the location within this Code of those sections of the 1982
Code that are included herein. Sections of the 1982 Code not listed herein have
been omitted as repealed, superseded, obsolete or not of a general and
permanent nature. For the location of ordinances included herein (including
ordinances contained in the 1982 Code) see the table immediately following this
table.
1982 Code Section Section this Code
1982 Code Section   Section this Code
1-1, 1-2            1-1,
                    1-2
1-3                 1-2
1-4(1)              1-3
1-5                 1-3
1-6                 1-5
1-7                 1-9
1-8                 1-7
                    1-10
1-9                 1-13
1-10                1-6
1-12                1-8
1-13                1-4
1-14                1-2
2-2                 2-1
                    2-162—
                    2-165 
2-3—2-8, 2-10     2-171—
                    2-173,
                    2-175
2-17--2-22          2-29--
                    2-34
2-24--2-27          2-35--
                    2-38
2-41                2-39
2-58--2-62          2-71--2-75
2-63--2-72          2-87--
                    2-96
2-74--2-76          2-129--
                    2-131
3-1                 4-1
4-1--4-3            6-1--
                    6-3
4-4--4-7            6-25--
                    6-28
4-8--4-12           6-60--
                    6-64
4-14--4-19          6-65--
                    6-70
4-21                6-71,
                    6-72
4-22                6-73
4-28--4-37          6-132--
                    6-141
5-1                 8-1
5-6                 8-21
5-9                 8-24
5-17, 5-18          8-22,
                    8-23
5-32                8-52
5-35, 5-36          8-53,
                    8-54
5-72--5-76          8-82--
                    8-86
5-98                14-19
5-200—5-208       8-116—
                    8-124
5-210—5-218       8-126—
                    8-134
7-2, 7-3            10-1,
                    10-2
7-5--7-11           10-3—
                    10-7
7-23                10-37
7-37--7-46          10-67--
                    10-76
7-58, 7-59          10-96,
                    10-97
8-1, 8-2            12-22,
                    12-23
8-5--8-10           12-24--
                    12-29
8-22                12-47
8-24--8-26          12-49--
                    12-51
8-27                12-1
9-16, 9-17          16-19,
                    16-20
9-19                16-21
9-21, 9-22          16-22,
                    16-23
9-40                16-1
9-47                16-2
9-62, 9-63          16-54,
                    16-55
9-70--9-73          16-84--
                    16-87
11-1                22-1
11-3                20-3
11-4, 11-5          20-1,
                    20-2
12-1                34-1
                    34-2—
12-3—12-16        34-11
                    34-13—
                    34-15
12-27               30-1
12-41, 12-42        34-34,
                    34-35
12-42               34-67
12-43, 12-44        34-36,
                    34-37
12-44, 12-45        34-38,
                    34-39
12-59               34-68
12-61--12-64        34-69--
                    34-72
12-66--12-68        34-73--
                    34-75
12-79               34-94
12-81--12-90        34-95--
                    34-104
12-92--12-98        34-105--
                    34-111
12-100, 12-101      34-112,
                    34-113
12-103              34-114
12-111, 12-112      34-142,
                    34-143
12-114, 12-115      34-144,
                    34-145
12-117--12-121      34-146--
                    34-150
12-123--12-125      34-151--
                    34-153
12-139, 12-140      34-175,
                    34-176
12-143              22-2
12-176--12-190      34-241--
                    34-255
12-198              34-256
12-213--12-229      28-186--
                    28-202
12-229.1-- 12-229.5 28-203--
                    28-207
12-230--12-235      34-276--
                    34-281
13-2                22-23
13-6                22-78
13-8                22-79
13-9                22-50
13-9.1, 13-9.2      22-51,
                    22-52
                    22-102--—
13-10--13-19        22-110,
                    22-112
14-1                24-1
14-4--14-8          24-2--
                    24-6
14-10—14-12       24-7—
                    24-9
14-14               24-11
14-15               24-12
14-17--14-21        24-13--
                    24-17
14-28               24-18
15-1--15-6          2-144--
                    2-149
16-1, 16-2          28-2,
                    28-3
16.5-1              26-1
16.5-3--16.5-8      26-2--
                    26-7
16.5-16--16.5-19    26-40--
                    26-43
16.5-21             26-44
16.5-30--16.5-34    26-76--
                    26-80
16.5-40--16.5-45    26-111--
                    26-116
16.5-51             26-146,
                    26-147
16.5-52, 16.5-53    26-148,
                    26-149
17-3                28-1
17-15--17-18        28-41--
                    28-44
17-30, 17-31        28-45,
                    28-46
17-43               28-66
17-43.1             28-67
17-44, 17-45        28-68,
                    28-69
17-57               28-4
17-58               28-5
17-60--17-64        28-7—
                    28-11
17-76--17-79        28-97--
                    28-100
17-91--17-97        28-129--
                    28-135
17-101—17-111     28-154—
                    28-164
17-113              28-166
18-1--18-3          20-67--
                    20-69
18-3.1-- 18-3.4     20-70--
                    20-73
18-4--18-9          20-105--
                    20-110
18-10--18-12        20-134--
                    20-136
19-1--19-10         36-1--
                    36-10
19-10               36-203
19-11               36-11
19-13               36-12
19-15, 19-16        36-13,
                    36-14
19-22--19-29        36-34--
                    36-41
19-35--19-48        36-71--
                    36-84
19-57—19-62       36-112—
                    36-117
19-76, 19-77        36-150,
                    36-151
19-89--19-100       36-171--
                    36-182
19-104              36-183
19-106--19-122      36-204--
                    36-220
 
CODE COMPARATIVE TABLE
ORDINANCES
This table gives the location within this Code of those ordinances as updated
that are included herein. Ordinances not listed herein have been omitted as
repealed, superseded or not of a general and permanent nature.
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date Section Section this Code
Ordinance Adoption Effective Section Section this Code
Number    Date     Date
76-37     10-14-             1       36-77
          1976
76-40     11-18-             1       36-34
          1976
77-15     4-28-              1       34-73
          1977
77-16     5-12-              1       34-11
          1977
77-35     9-22-              2       34-68
          1977
77-37     10-13-                     2-31
          1977
                                     2-37
                                     2-162—
                                     2-165
77-40     10-27-             2       2-163
          1977
78-3      4-13-              1, 2    36-8
          1978
78-9      4-27-              1       34-253
          1978
78-12     9-14-              1       36-9
          1978
79-1      1-25-              1       36-9
          1979
79-2      2- 8-              1, 2    2-163,
          1979                       2-166
79-5      5-31-              1       20-3
          1979
79-6      7-12-              1, 2    28-129
          1979
79-23     9-27-              1       36-5
          1979
79-28     10-11-             1, 2    36-6
          1979
79-30     11- 8-             1       36-5
          1979
          1-24-                      2-162,
80-3      1980               1       2-164,
                                     2-165
80-4      1-24-              6.1-2   10-2
          1980
                             6.1-3
                             (a)(1-- 10-1
                             5)
                             6.1-4   10-97
                             6.1-5   10-96
                             6.1-6   10-38
                             6.1-7   10-37
                             6.1-10- 10-67--
                             -6.1-19 10-76
                             6.1-20  10-6
                             6.1-21  10-7
                             6.1-22  10-4
                             6.1-23  10-6
                             6.1-24  10-5
                             6.1-25  10-4
                             6.1-27  10-3
80-5      2-28-              1       28-10
          1980
80-14     6-12-              10.1-1  24-1
          1980
                             10.1-2, 24-5,
                             10.1-3  24-6
                             10.1-4  24-2,
                                     24-3
                             10.1-5  24-11
                             10.1-6  24-13
                             10.1-7  24-16
                             10.1-9  24-7
                             10.1-10 24-12
                             10.1-11 24-8
                             10.1-13 24-14
                             10.1-15 24-9
                             10.1-16 24-15
                             10.1-17 24-4
80-16     7-24-              1       36-8
          1980
82-8      8-12-              1       36-71
          1982
82-9      8-12-              1       36-6
          1982
                             2       36-34
82-14     9-23-              1       10-38
          1982
82-15     9-23-              1       36-8
          1982
83-9      5-12-              1       34-68
          1983
83-16     10-13-             1       10-67
          1983
84-2      3- 8-              1       34-112
          1984
84-3      3- 8-              1       36-5
          1984
84-4      3- 8-              1       36-8
          1984
84-5      3- 8-              1       36-9
          1984
84-12     4-26-              1--5    28-66
          1984
                             5       28-67
84-16     8-23-              1       30-1
          1984
84-20     9-27-              1       36-9
          1984
84-22(A)  11- 8-             1       36-6
          1984
84-24     12-13-             1       36-82
          1984
85-2      1-10-              1       8-21
          1985
85-3      1-10-              1       28-1
          1985
85-14     6-13-              1, 2    28-134,
          1985                       28-135
85-20     7-11-              1       30-1
          1985
85-26     8-22-              1       36-77
          1985
86-7      3-13-              1       2-29
          1986
86-19     5- 8-              3       16-2
          1986
86-21     6-12-              1       2-29
          1986
86-25(a)  6-26-              1       36-6
          1986
86-25(c)  6-26-                      30-1
          1986
86-42     11-13-             1       34-68
          1986
87-13     3-12-              1       36-1
          1987
                             2       36-4
                             3       36-77
87-21     6-11-              2       34-103
          1987
87-83     9-10-              1       34-69
          1987
87-103    12-10-             1       34-1
          1987
                             2       34-15
                             3       34-253
87-104    12-10-             1       22-23
          1987
                             3       22-79
87-105    12-10-             1       24-13
          1987
87-106    12-10-             1       28-1
          1987
                             2       28-4
                             3, 4    28-6,
                                     28-7
                             5, 6    28-9
                             7       28-10
88-7      4-14-              1       16-54,
          1988                       16-55
88-10     7-14-              1       34-147
          1988
88-14     9-22-              1       30-1
          1988
88-15     9-22-              1       36-116
          1988
89-25     2-23-              1       2-39
          1989
89-31     3- 9-              1       10-74
          1989
89-37     6- 8-              1       34-103
          1989
89-69     9-14-              1       20-2
          1989
89-70     9-14-              1, 2    34-113,
          1989                       34-114
89-79     9-28-              1       36-11
          1989
90-25     3-22-              1       36-74
          1990
90-26     3-22-              1       36-150
          1990
90-30     4-12-              1       24-14
          1990
90-55     10-11-             1       36-116
          1990
90-56     11- 8-             1       34-150
          1990
90-59     11- 8-             1       34-151
          1990
90-61     11- 8-                     34-69
          1990
91-5      2-28-              1       2-87--
          1991                       2-96
91-6      2-28-              1       2-166
          1991
91-26     6-13-              1       34-69
          1991
91-29     8- 8-              1       24-18
          1991
91-41     10-10-             1       34-103
          1991
91-50     12-12-             1       2-166
          1991
92-25     2-13-              1       22-23
          1992
92-30     4- 9-              1       16-84--
          1992                       16-87
92-37     6-11-              1       26-1--
          1992                       26-7
                                     26-40--
                                     26-43
                                     26-76--
                                     26-80
                                     26-111--
                                     26-116
                                     26-146--
                                     26-149
92-41     8-12-              1       28-46
          1992
93-06     2-11-              1       28-97--
          1993                       28-100
93-07     2-12-              1       34-69
          1993
93-12     3-11-              1       36-74
          1993
93-13     3-11-              1       36-150
          1993
93-14     3-25-              1       2-72--2-74
          1993
93-23     4- 8-              1       34-73
          1993
93-24     4- 8-              1       34-69
          1993
93-27     4- 8-              1       34-152
          1993
93-28     4- 8-              1       34-153
          1993
          5-13-                      22-102--—
93-29     1993                       22-110,
                                     22-112
93-34     9-23-              1       2-91
          1993
93-38     12- 9-             1       34-103
          1993
93-39     12- 9-             1       34-69
          1993
94-001    1-13-                      2-162—
          1994                       2-166
94-004    2-24-                      4-1
          1994
                                     4-21--
                                     4-24
                                     4-26--
                                     4-28
94-005    4-14-              1       8-21--
          1994                       8-24
94-007    4-14-              1       34-69
          1994
94-008    4-14-              1       34-69
          1994
94-012    5-12-              1       10-7
          1994
94-013    5-12-                      28-46
          1994
94-018    7-28-              1       24-18
          1994
94-021    8-11-              1       34-69
          1994
94-022    8-11-              1       22-107
          1994
                             2       22-105
94-030    10-13-                     34-254
          1994
94-036    12- 8-                     36-171--
          1994                       36-182
94-037    12- 8-             1       36-12
          1994
95-004    1-12-              1       34-103
          1995
95-007    1-26-              1       2-87--
          1995                       2-92
                                     2-94--
                                     2-96
95-010    3- 9-                      28-186--
          1995                       28-207
95-011    3-27-                      36-5
          1995
95-020    6- 8-                      36-81
          1995
95-021    6-22-                      36-37--
          1995                       36-41
95-031    12-14-                     22-51
          1995
96-002    2- 8-                      22-52
          1996
96-003    3-14-              1       20-3
          1996
96-004    4-11-              1       20-3
          1996
96-006    7-11-              1       36-81
          1996
96-010    10-24-             1       2-87--
          1996                       2-96
96-012    11-14-                     8-82--
          1996                       8-86
                                     8-116—
                                     8-124,
                                     8-126—
                                     8-134
96-014    11-14-                     34-151
          1996
97-013    4-24-                      2-92
          1997
97-027    6-12-                      36-83
          1997
97-029    6-26-                      2-89
          1997
                                     2-91
97-031    8-14-              1       36-6
          1997
97-032    8-14-                      36-84
          1997
97-038    10- 9-                     26-44
          1997
98-003    5-28-                      2-87--
          1998                       2-96
98-007    6-11-              1       34-34--
          1998                       34-39
98-008    6-11-              1       22-102
          1998
98-009    6-11-              1       22-109
          1998
98-010    6-11-              1       22-112
          1998
98-018    10- 8-                     36-3,
          1998                       36-4
98-021    12-10-                     36-183
          1998
98-022    12-10-                     20-67--
          1998                       20-73
                                     20-105--
                                     20-110
                                     20-134--
                                     20-136
99-008    6-10-              1       34-250
          1999
99-009    6-10-              1       34-255
          1999
99-010    6-10-              1       34-256
          1999
99-013    8-12-              1       36-203--
          1999                       36-220
                             2       36-12
                                     36-74
                                     36-77
99-019    10-14-                     36-74
          1999
                                     36-150
99-021    12- 9-                     36-14
          1999
00-007    3- 9-              1       34-36
          2000
00-008    4-13-              1       16-1
          2000
00-009    4-13-                      36-80
          2000
00-013    6-28-                      30-1
          2000
00-024    9-14-                      34-75
          2000
          12-14-                     28-154--
00-031    2000                       28-164,
                                     28-166
00-034    1-11-              I       34-36
          2001
                                     34-38
00-001    3- 8-              1       34-244
          2001
01-001    3- 8-              1       34-252
          2001
01-003    4-12-                      34-74
          2001
01-004    4-12-              1       34-255
          2001
01-005    4-12-                      36-11
          2001
                                     36-13
                                     36-72
                                     36-82
01-007    5-10-              1       20-72
          2001
01-010    5-24-                      22-51
          2001
01-017    9-13-              1       34-103
          2001
01-022    11- 8-             1       6-1--
          2001                       6-3
                                     6-25--
                                     6-28
                                     6-60--
                                     6-73
                                     6-132--
                                     6-141
02-001    1-10-              I       20-3
          2002
02-005    2-28-                      36-74
          2002
                                     36-150,
                                     36-151
02-008    3-14-              1       34-276--
          2002                       34-281
02-011    4-11-                      36-172--
          2002                       36-174
                                     36-179
                                     36-181
02-012    4-24-                      36-80
          2002
02-016    6-13-                      36-6
          2002
                                     36-34
                                     36-74
                                     36-150
02-025    11-21-                     36-76
          2002
03-002    1- 9-                      2-144--
          2003                       2-149
03-003    1- 9-                      36-1
          2003
03-004    4-10-                      12-1
          2003
03-005    5- 8-              1       34-103
          2003
                                     2-162—
          5-22-                      2-166,
03-006    2003                       2-171—
                                     2-173,
                                     2-175
03-010    10- 9-                     24-17
          2003
03-014    11-13-                     36-78
          2003
04-009    8-26-              6-1     9-19
          2004
                             6-3     9-20
                             6-4--6- 9-44--
                             6       9-46
                             6-8--6- 9-47--
                             12      9-51
                             6-12    9-52
                             6-14,   9-53,
                             6-15    9-54
                             6-17--  9-56--
                             6-25    9-64
                             6-26--  9-87--
                             6-29    9-90
                             6-30--  9-109--
                             6-32    9-111
                             6-33--  9-136--
                             6-40    9-143
                             6-41--  9-170--
                             6-46    9-175
                             6-47--  9-204--
                             6-49    9-206
                             6-50    9-236
                             6-52,   9-237,
                             6-53    9-238
04-010    9- 9-              19-25,  36-37,
          2004               19-26   36-38
05-003    2-24-                      8-129
          2005
                                     8-132
                                     22-105
                                     22-107
                                     22-108
                                     22-110
                                     26-1
05-004    3-10-                      22-105
          2005
05-005    3-10-                      36-173,
          2005                       36-174
05-008    3-26-              1--6    adopting ord.
          2005
05-010    7-28-                      6-140
          2005
                                     24-14
05-011    8-11-                      22-107(a)(1)
          2005
05-014    9-22-                      26-41(a), (b)
          2005
                             Added   26-41(b)(1)
                             Rnbd    26-41(c)
                             as      26-41(b)(2)
                             Rpld    26-41(d)
                             Added   26-41(c)
                                     26-42(b)
                                     26-43(a)(1)
                             Added   26-43(b)(1)
                             Rnbd    26-43(b)(1), (2)
                             as      26-43(b)(1)a., b.
                             Added   26-43(b)(2)
                             Added   26-43(c)
                             Rnbd    26-43(c)
                             as      26-43(d)
                                     26-44
                                     26-116
05-017    11-10-             Rpld    22-52(b)
          2005
                             Rnbd    22-52(c), (d)
                             as      22-52(b), (c)
05-018    12-15-                     6-65
          2005
06-003    2- 9-                      34-278(1), (7), (8)
          2006
                             Added   34-280
                             Rnbd    34-280,
                                     34-281
                             as      34-281,
                                     34-282
06-004    3- 9-                      36-172
          2006
                                     36-173(2)b., d., p.
                                     36-173(5)
                                     36-175(b)(8)a.
                             Rpld    36-175(b)(8)b.
                             Rnbd    36-175(b)(8)c., d.
                             as      36-175(b)(8)b., c.
                                     36-175(b)(8)b., c.
                                     36-175(b)(9)a.
                                     36-175(b)(9)a.3.
                                     36-176(d)(1)
                                     36-176(e)(3)
                                     36-176(m)
                                     36-179(a)(3)
                                     36-179(b)
                             Added   36-184,
                                     36-185
06-006    3-23-              Added   2-165
          2006
                             Added   2-171(d)
                                     2-172(a)
                             Added   2-172(d)
06-008    4-27-              Rpld    2-72--2-75
          2006
                                     28-43(a)
                                     28-67(a)
06-010    6-22-                      22-51(d)
          2006
06-013    7-27-                      26-77
          2006
06-014    8-10-                      36-183--
          2006                       36-185
06-019    12-14-             Added   22-80
          2006
06-020    12-14-                     6-71(a)(8)
          2006
                                     6-71(b)
                             Added   6-71(f)
                             Rpld    22-105(3)
                             Rnbd    22-105(4)--(9)
                             as      22-105(3)--(8)
06-021    12-14-             Added   22-53
          2006
07-002    2- 8-                      2-171(a)
          2007
07-003    2-22-              Rpld    34-69(1)
          2007
                             Rnbd    34-69(2)--(13)
                             as      34-69(1)--(12)
07-05     5-10-              1       36-80(d)(1)
          2007
                                     36-80(e)
                             2       36-81
                             3       36-84(e)(1)
07-09     7-26-                      34-151
          2007
07-11     9-11-                      2-90(d)
          2007
07-13     10-11-             Added   ch. 14, art. III,
          2007
                                     14-20--
                                     14-23
07-18     12-13-             Added   8-55
          2007
07-20     12-13-                     36-172
          2007
                                     36-173(2)d.
                                     36-173(3)b.
                                     36-173(5)
                                     36-173(9)b.3.
                                     36-173(10)
                                     36-174(c)
                                     36-175(b)(2)c.
                                     36-175(b)(3)
                                     36-175(b)(8)a.
                                     36-175(b)(10)a.5., 6.
                             Added   36-175(b)(10)a.7., 8.
                                     36-175(b)(10)b.4.
                                     36-176(a)(2)e.3.
                                     36-176(a)(2)f.
                                     36-176(d)(1)
                                     36-176(e)
                                     36-176(f)(1)
                             Added   36-176(f)(4)
                                     36-176(h)
                             Added   36-176(i)
                             Rnbd    36-176(i), (j)
                             as      36-176(j), (k)
                             Rnbd    36-176(k)
                             as      36-176(l)
                                     36-176(l)
                             Rnbd    36-176(l), (m)
                             as      36-176(m), (n)
                             Added   36-176(o)
                                     36-179(6)
                                     36-179(6)d.
                                     36-180
                                     36-181(b)
2008-04   3-13-    4-1-2008          2-92(c)
          2008
2008-     6-12-    7-1-2008          36-80
Code-01   2008
                                     36-81
                                     36-83
                                     36-84
2008-     6-12-    7-11-2008         2-162—
Code-02   2008                       2-165
                             Added   2-179
2008-     10-16-   10-16-            6-3
Code-04   2008     2008
                                     6-63
                                     6-137
2008-     10-30-   11-15-            ch. 2, art. V,
Code-06   2008     2008
                                     2-162—
                                     2-166,
                                     2-171—
                                     2-173,
                                     2-175,
                                     2-177,
                                     2-179
2008-     11-20-   12-15-            34-69
Code-07   2008     2008
2008-     11-20-   12-15-            ch. 28, art. VII,
Code-09   2008     2008              28-186—
                                     28-207
2009-     2-12-    2-12-2009         34-69
Code-03   2009
2009-     3-12-    4-1-2009          36-171—
Code-04   2009                       36-173
                             Added   36-186
2009-     5-14-    6-15-2009         34-12—
Code-06   2009                       34-14
                                     34-68
                                     34-69
                                     34-104—
                                     34-108
                                     34-110
                                     34-111
                                     34-146—
                                     34-151
                             Rpld    34-321—34-334
2009-     5-14-    6-15-2009         36-80
Code-07   2009
                                     36-83
2009-     6-10-    7-1-2009          36-81
Code-08   2009
2009-     8-13-    8-13-2009         34-151
Code-09   2009
2009-     8-13-    9-15-2009         36-186(d)
Code-10   2009
                                     ch. 2, art. V,
                                     2-161—
2009-     10-8-    10-8-2009         2-173,
Code-11   2009                       2-175,
                                     2-177,
                                     2-179
                                     8-116,
                                     8-117,
2010-     3-10-                      8-120,
Code-01   2010     3-10-2010         8-126,
                                     8-127,
                                     8-129,
                                     8-130
                             Rpld    8-125
                                     6-60,
                                     9-56,
2010-     3-10-                      10-67,
Code-02   2010     3-10-2010         16-84,
                                     20-3,
                                     20-71,
                                     34-36
                             Rpld    12-1
2010-     5-13-    5-13-2010         16-1
Code-03   2010
                             Added   16-3
2010-     6-9-2010 7-15-2010         36-80
Code-04
2010-     7-15-    7-30-2010         34-276—
Code-05   2010                       34-278
2010-     7-15-    7-30-2010         12-22
Code-06   2010
2010-     9-16-    9-16-2010         36-204
Code-07   2010
2010-     10-14-   11-15-            6-3,
Code-08   2010     2010              6-27,
                                     6-73
2010-     12-16-   12-30-            2-89,
Code-09   2010     2010              2-91,
                                     2-92
2010-     12-16-   12-16-    Rpld    2-50—2-60
Code-10   2010     2010
2011-     3-10-    3-10-2011 Added   20-74
Code-02   2011
2011-     4-14-    4-14-2011 Rpld    2-178
Code-03   2011
                                     8-117—
                                     8-122,
                                     8-124,
2011-     6-16-                      8-126,
Code-04   2011     6-16-2011         8-127,
                                     8-129,
                                     8-130,
                                     8-133,
                                     8-134
                             Rpld    8-123
2011-     6-30-    6-30-2011         34-151
Code-05   2011
2011-     9-27-    9-27-2011 Added   28-12
Code-06   2011
2011-     10-13-   10-13-            36-6
Code-07   2011     2011
2011-     11-17-   12-1-2011         22-51
Code-08   2011
                             Rpld    24-10
2011-     12-15-   12-15-            36-171—
Code-09   2011     2011              36-188
2012-     2-9-2012 2-9-2012  Rpld    2-176,
Code-01                              2-180
2012-     4-19-                      6-67,
Code-02   2012     6-1-2012          6-132,
                                     6-139
2012-     4-19-    4-19-2012         22-107
Code-03   2012
                                     6-3,
2012-     8-23-                      6-62,
Code-04   2012     8-23-2012         6-65,
                                     6-71,
                                     6-132
2012-                                2-162,
Code-05   9-6-2012 9-6-2012          2-171,
                                     2-172
                             Rpld    2-174
2012-     10-11-   10-11-            6-3,
Code-06   2012     2012              6-27,
                                     6-139
                             Added   6-71a
                                     28-129,
2012-     12-13-   12-13-            28-154—
Code-07   2012     2012              28-159,
                                     28-161,
                                     28-162
                             Added   28-167
2013-     4-18-    4-18-2013         2-166
Code-01   2013
2013-     6-13-    6-13-2013         20-2
Code-02   2013
2013-     9-12-    10-1-2013         22-51
Code-03   2013
2013-     9-26-    10-1-2013         2-172
Code-04   2013
2013-     10-10-   10-10-            22-102—
Code-05   2013     2013              22-112
2014-     1-9-2014 1-9-2014  Added   2-2
Code-01
                                     9-58
                                     10-1—
                                     10-7,
                                     10-37,
                                     10-38,
                                     10-67,
2014-     1-30-    2-14-2014         10-68,
Code-02   2014                       10-70,
                                     10-72,
                                     10-74,
                                     10-75,
                                     10-77,
                                     10-97
2014-     6-26-    7-15-2014 Added   2-174
Code-03   2014
2015-     1-28-    1-28-2015         22-79
Code-01   2015
2015-     6-25-    6-25-2015 Rpld    20-25—20-39
Code-002  2015
                                     20-3,
                                     20-67,
                                     20-69,
                                     20-107
2015-     7-9-2015 7-9-2015          10-71—
Code-003                             10-73
2015-     7-9-2015 7-9-2015          22-104,
Code-004                             22-105
2015-     10-22-   10-22-            10-2
Code-005  2015     2015
2015-     11-19-   11-19-            22-80
Code-006  2015     2015
                                     6-3,
2016-     2-25-                      6-67,
Code-01   2016     2-25-2016         6-70,
                                     6-132,
                                     6-139
2017-                                1-14,
Code-01   1-5-2017 1-5-2017  Added   28-210—
                                     28-217
2017-     2-23-    2-23-2017 Added   22-81
Code-02   2017
2017-     2-23-    6-1-2017  Added   20-150—
Code-03   2017                       20-159
2017-     7-27-    7-27-2017 Added   4-2
Code-04   2017
2018-     4-5-2018 4-5-2018          36-78
Code-01
2018-     6-28-    7-1-2018          2-71
Code-02   2018
                                     36-3,
2018-     6-28-    7-1-2018          36-5,
Code-03   2018                       36-6,
                                     36-204
                             Added   36-42
2018-     8-23-    8-23-2018         2-91
Code-04   2018
2019-     3-28-    3-28-2019         26-146
Code-01   2019
2019-     9-12-    9-12-2019 Rpld    6-105—6-109, 6-27, 6-69, 6-132, 6-136, 6-
Code-02   2019                       139
2019-     9-26-                      10-37,
Code-03   2019     9-26-2019         20-110,
                                     28-195
                             Rpld    28-165, 36-118
                                     1-14,
                                     2-89,
                                     2-91,
                                     2-92,
                                     2-96,
                                     6-133,
                                     22-23,
                                     26-1—
                                     26-4,
                                     26-41,
                                     26-43,
                                     26-115,
2019-     10-10-   10-10-            28-2,
Code-04   2019     2019              28-11,
                                     28-46,
                                     28-69,
                                     28-99,
                                     28-129,
                                     34-12,
                                     34-75,
                                     36-12,
                                     36-37,
                                     36-76,
                                     36-80,
                                     36-81,
                                     36-183,
                                     36-204
                             Added   2-108
                             Rpld    34-301—34-305
                                     12-21—
2020-     4-30-                      12-29,
Code-01   2020     4-30-2020         12-47,
                                     12-49—
                                     12-54
                             Rpld    12-48
2020-LDO- 5-7-2020 5-7-2020          28-12
01
2020-     8-20-    8-20-2020 Added   20-170
Code-02   2020
2021-     5-27-    5-27-2021         2-92
Code-02   2021
                                     2-131,
                                     2-165,
                                     2-171,
                                     2-172,
                                     2-174; ch. 8, art. III:
                                     8-53; ch. 8, art. IV:
                                     8-82,
                                     8-83,
2021-     6-24-    6-25-2021         8-86,
Code-02   2021                       8-116,
                                     8-117,
                                     8-129,
                                     8-130,
                                     8-132,
                                     8-133,
                                     ch. 10;
                                     ch. 16, art. III;
                                     20-170
- -       9-23-    9-23-2021         2-179
          2021
                                     2-132,
2022-     4-28-                      8-120,
Code-01   2022     4-29-2022 1       16-3,
                                     36-76,
                                     36-81
2022-     6-23-    6-23-2022 1       1-14
Code-02   2022
2022-     9-22-    9-22-2022 1       2-174
Code-03   2022
                                     20-3,
                                     22-52,
2022-     9-22-    9-22-2022 1       22-78,
Code-04   2022                       22-79,
                                     22-81,
                                     22-112
                             Added   22-85,
                                     34-301
2022-     11-17-   11-17-    1       4-1
Code-05   2022     2022
                             Rpld    4-21—4-28
                                     10-37
                             Rpld    10-38
2022-     12-15-   6-1-2023  1       22-79
Code-06   2022
2023-LDO- 6-22-    6-22-2023         2-174
03        2023
2023-     6-22-    6-22-2023 1 Added 22-82—
Code-01   2023                       22-87
                             Rnbd    22-85
                             as      22-88
2023-LDO- 11-16-   11-16-            26-116
04        2023     2023
2024-     3-14-    3-22-2024 1       22-79
Code-01   2024
2024-     6-27-    7-1-2024  1       34-36
Code-02   2024
                             2       22-87
2024-     11-14-   11-14-    1       34-15
Code-03   2024     2024
2024-     12-12-   12-12-    1       18-1—
Code-04   2024     2024              18-22
                             2 Rpld  28-6
                             3 Added 34-206—
                                     34-235
 
 
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE
   This table shows the location within this Charter, Related Laws and Code,
either in the text or notes following the text, of references to the North
Carolina General Statutes.
G.S. Section Section this Code
G.S. Section              Section this Code
1-120.2                   8-131
1A-1(rule 6)              1-2
7A-148                    Ch. 34, Art. II
7A-304                    Ch. 34, Art. II
ch. 12                    1-2
12-2                      1-4
ch. 14                    Ch. 22
ch. 14, art. 26           20-71
ch. 14, art. 27           20-71
ch. 14, art. 54           22-105
14-4                      1-9
                          6-132
                          8-129
                          18-18
                          20-73
                          22-85
                          24-17
                          28-12
                          Ch. 34, Art. II
                          36-1
                          36-80
                          36-82
14-4(b)                   34-34
                          34-301
14-27.20                  22-83
14-118.5                  Ch. 9
14-151.1                  36-2
14-177—14-202           20-71
14-203—14-208           20-71
14-234                    2-71
14-269                    28-205
14-269(a)                 22-51
14-269.2                  28-205
14-277.2                  28-196
14-284.1                  28-205
14-288.1                  12-49
                          12-54
14-288.4                  22-78
14-288.8                  28-205
14-288.12                 Ch. 12
14-288.20A                12-52
                          12-54
14-360                    6-67
14-360 et seq.            Ch. 6
14-361.1                  6-61
14-363.1                  6-62
14-409.39                 22-51
14-409.39(2)              12-49
                          12-54
14-409.40                 22-51,
                          22-52
14-410 et seq.            22-105
14-414(1)--(6)            24-18
14-415.23                 22-51
15-27.2                   8-128
                          34-210
                          34-225
17C-8                     6-26
ch. 18B                   Ch. 4
                          6-26
                          22-79
18B-101                   4-1
18B-300.1                 22-79
18B-1001                  4-2
ch. 19A                   Ch. 6
ch. 20, art. 7A           34-215
                          34-230
ch. 20, art. 17           20-67
20-4.01                   20-152
                          22-86
                          34-1
20-16                     20-108
20-16(c)                  Char.
                          App. 2.8
20-37                     Ch. 20, Art. III
20-37.6                   Ch. 34, Art. II
20-37.6(d)                34-36
                          34-103
20-39 et seq.             Char.
                          App. 2.3
20-87                     Ch. 20, Art. III
20-97                     Char. App.
                          2.3
                          30-1
20-115 et seq.            Ch. 34, Art. VI
20-119                    34-175
20-129                    34-251
20-134                    34-109
20-138.1 et seq.          Ch. 34, Art. V
20-141                    34-149
20-141.1                  34-151
20-153                    34-147
20-156                    34-142
20-158                    Char.
                          App. 2.8
                          Ch. 34, Art. III
                          34-68
20-158.1                  34-146
20-161 et seq.            Ch. 34, Art. IV
20-162                    Ch. 34, Art. II
                          34-103
20-162.1                  Ch. 34, Art. II
20-168                    34-3
20-169                    Ch. 34
20-171                    34-4
20-171.9                  34-255
20-172                    Ch. 34, Art. III
20-175                    20-3
20-176                    Char.
                          App. 2.8
20-219.2                  20-153
20-280                    Ch. 20, Art. III
20-280(b)                 20-67
ch. 40A                   Char.
                          App. 2.10
ch. 44A, art. 1           34-216
                          34-231
44A-5                     34-217
                          34-232
58-36-65                  Char.
                          App. 2.8
ch. 62                    Char.
                          App. 2.10
62-133.8(a)(7)            Char.
                          App. 2.20
ch. 66, art. 45, pt. 1    20-2
66-77                     Char.
                          App. 2.9
66-397                    20-2
ch. 62A                   12-1
ch. 62A                   12-1
ch. 65                    Ch. 10
ch. 66, art. 17           Char.
                          App. 2.9
67-4.2                    6-70
ch. 69                    Ch. 16
87-83 et seq.             18-14
ch. 89B                   Char.
                          App. 2.5
                          Char.
                          App. 2.6
ch. 89C                   Char.
                          App. 2.8
95-173 et seq.            16-85
ch. 97                    2-92
ch. 99E                   24-17
ch. 105                   Ch. 20
105-113.68                4-1
105-113.77 et seq.        Ch. 4
106-65.22 et seq.         6-60
113-300.1 et seq.         6-60
115C-555                  Char.
                          App. 2.22
130A-184 et seq.          Ch. 6
130A-190                  6-73
130A-190(a)               6-73
130A-196 et seq.          6-69
130A-196 et seq.          6-69
130A-290 et seq.          Ch. 26
130A-309.09A              Ch. 26
130A-317                  36-41
132-1                     Char.
                          App. 2.21
ch. 132                   Char.
                          App. 2.17
132-1.2                   36-178
132-1.12                  Char.
                          App. 2.21
132-1.13                  Char.
                          App. 2.17
ch. 136                   Char.
                          App. 2.10
                          Ch. 28
136-14.14                 34-103
136-44.14                 34-36
136-32(f)                 28-12
136-66.1                  Char.
                          Art. VI
136-66.2                  Char.
                          App. 2.2
136-66.3                  Char.
                          App. 2.2
136-90, 136-91            Ch. 28
136-93                    Ch. 28
136-141 et seq.           34-218
                          34-233
136-143                   34-218
                          34-233
143-48 et seq.            Char.
                          App. 2.11
143-128.2                 Char.
                          App. 2.11
143-129                   Char.
                          App. 2.11
                          Char.
                          App. 2.19
143-131                   Char.
                          App. 2.19
143-132                   Char.
                          App. 2.19
143-136 et seq.           Ch. 8, Art. III
143-213(18)               36-172
143-215.1                 36-172
                          36-175
143-215.1(b)              36-175
143-215.1(d)              36-172
143-215.1(f)              36-37
                          36-41
143-215.1(g)              36-175
143-215.3(a)(14)          36-172
143-215.6B                36-179
143-318.9 et seq.         Ch. 2, Art. II, Div. 1
143-318.12                2-29
143-318.17                22-78
143-355.2                 36-81
143-434 et seq.           6-60
143B-350(f)(4)            Char.
                          App. 2.7
ch. 153A, art. 18, pt. 3  Char.
                          App. 2.18
153A-320 et seq.          Char.
                          App. 2.4
153A-340(b)               Char.
                          App. 2.18
153A-344.1                Char.
                          App. 2.4
ch.158, art. 1         20-170
159-1 et seq.             Char. art. VIII
159-7 et seq.             Char. §
                          7.1
159-31                    Char. §
                          7.1
160-22                    Char. §
                          2.1
ch. 160A                  18-1
ch. 160A, art. 4A, pt. 3  Char.
                          App. 2.23
ch. 160A, art. 10         8-133
                          28-41
                          28-43
                          28-66
ch. 160A, art. 17         Ch.10
ch. 160A, art. 19, Pt. 3C Char.
                          App. 2.13
ch. 160A, art. 20         Char.
                          App. 2.4
160A-3                    Char.
                          App. 2.3
160A-11                   Char. §
                          1.1
160A-29 et seq.           Char. §
                          2.2
160A-59—160A-82         Ch. 2, Art. II, Div. 1
160A-74                   2-30
160A-75 et seq.           2-37
160A-76                   22-81
                          22-87
160A-76(b)                Ch. 8, Art. III
                          22-81
                          22-87
                          34-12
160A-77                   1-1
                          1-13
160A-146                  2-108
160A-146 et seq.          Char. §
                          3.9
160A-147 et seq.          Char. §
                          1.4
160A-169                  2-91
160A-171                  Char. §
                          3.11
160A-171 et seq.          Ch. 2, Art. III
160A-173                  Char. §
                          3.10
160A-174                  9-56
                          Ch. 18
                          20-150
                          Ch. 22
                          34-253
160A-175                  1-9
                          6-132
                          8-129
                          18-16
                          18-19
                          20-73
                          Ch. 34, Art. II
                          36-1
                          36-80
                          36-82
160A-175(c)               6-70
                          18-18
                          18-19
                          18-21
                          22-88
                          22-111
                          24-18
                          28-11
                          36-13
                          36-39
                          36-78
                          36-83,
                          36-84
160A-175(g)               18-18
160A-176                  1-5
160A-178                  Ch. 20
                          20-3
160A-182                  Ch. 6
160A-184                  Ch. 22, Art. IV, Div. 2
                          22-102
160A-186 et seq.          Ch. 6
160A-188                  6-60
160A-189                  22-51
160A-193                  Ch. 18
                          18-16
                          18-19
160A-193(b)               18-21
160A-194                  Ch. 20
160A-200.1                Ch. 18
                          18-22
160A-203.1                6-67
160A-205.3                4-2
160A-206 et seq.          Char.
                          art. VIII
160A-206                  Char. §
                          9.1
160A-212                  Ch. 6
160A-213                  30-1
160A-216 et seq.          Char.
                          Art. VI
                          8-133
                          Ch. 28, Art. II
                          28-41
                          28-43
                          28-66
160A-218                  28-46
160A-219                  28-66
160A-226                  28-66
160A-232                  28-41
160A-233                  Ch. 28, Art. II
160A-240.1(b)             Char.
                          App. 2.2
160A-272                  Char.
                          App. 2.20
160A-281 et seq.          Ch. 2, Art. IV, Div. 3
160A-291 et seq.          Ch. 16
160A-296                  Ch. 28
                          Ch. 34
160A-296(a)(2)            Ch. 28
160A-296(a)(3)            Char.
                          App. 2.2
160A-296(a)(6)            Ch. 28, Art. V
160A-300                  Ch. 34
160A-300.6                34-276
160A-301                  Ch. 34, Art. II
                          Ch. 34, Art. IV
160A-303                  34-206
                          34-209
160A-303(f)               34-216
160A-303(g)               34-214
160A-303.1                Ch. 18
                          Ch. 26
160A-303.2                34-221
                          34-224
160A-303.2(a4)            34-231
160A-304                  Ch. 20, Art. III
160A-311 et seq.          Ch. 18
160A-311(7)               Ch. 9
160A-312                  Ch. 36
                          22-81
                          22-87
                          36-114
                          36-171
160A-312(a)               Ch. 9
160A-313                  36-171
160A-314                  Ch. 36
                          36-9
160A-317                  Ch. 36
                          36-74
160A-319                  Ch. 9
160A-320                  36-42
160A-350 et seq.          Ch. 24
160A-360 et seq.          Char.
                          App. 2.4
160A-364                  Char.
                          App. 2.5
                          Char.
                          App. 2.6
                          Char.
                          App. 2.13
160A-372                  Char.
                          App. 2.14
160A-383.4                Char.
                          App. 2.16
160A-385.1                Char.
                          App. 2.4
160A-493                  Ch. 6
160A-499                  36-42
ch. 160D, art. 9, pt. 4   2-174
                          Ch. 10
ch. 160D, art. 10         20-170
ch. 160D, art. 12         8-116
160D-301                  2-171
160D-302                  2-172
160D-601                  2-171
                          2-172
                          2-174
160D-949                  8-129
160D-1102                 Ch. 8, Art. III
160D-1114                 2-131
160D-1118                 Ch. 8, Art. IV
160D-1128                 8-53
                          Ch. 16
160D-1201                 Ch. 8, Art. IV
                          8-82
                          8-116
                          8-117
160D-1201 et seq.         8-116
160D-1203                 8-83
160D-1203(3)              8-117
160D-1203(4)              8-129
160D-1203(6)              8-129
160D-1203(7)              8-133
160D-1203(8)              8-129
160D-1203(9)              8-129
160D-1205                 8-86
                          8-116
160D-1206(b)              8-132
160D-1208(b)              8-130
160D-1208(d)              8-130
160D-1208(e)              8-129
160D-1315                 20-170
ch. 162A, art. 8          Char. §
                          8.5
                          36-6
163-292                   Char. §
                          3.2
ch. 166A                  Ch. 12
                          12-21
                          12-54
166A-4                    12-21
166A-7                    16-84
166A-10                   12-26
166A-19.15                12-23
 
 
APPENDIX A
LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE*
Current through local ordinance 2025-CODE-02, passed 5-22-25 and effective 5-
22-25
                 
   *Editor's note—Printed herein is the Land Development Ordinance, Ord. No.
03-007, adopted May 22, 2003, effective July 1, 2003. This Ordinance completely
replaces the Unified Development Ordinance. For the ordinance history of the
UDO, see the Land Development Ordinance Disposition Table—1976 Code.
   This publication has been altered as little as possible from the original
Land Development Ordinance. Obvious misspellings and punctuation errors have
been corrected, and where necessary, material added for clarification has been
placed in brackets. Amendments to the LDO are indicated by parenthetical
history notes following amended provisions. The absence of a history note
indicates that the provision remains unchanged from the original ordinance.
Chapter 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.1   TITLE; EFFECTIVE DATE
1.2   AUTHORITY
1.3   GENERAL PURPOSES
1.4   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND OTHER PLANS AND MANUALS
   
1.4.1   Purpose and Role
   
1.4.2   Legal Effect
   
1.4.3   Components of the Comprehensive Plan
      (A) Cary Community Plan
      (B) Appendices of the Cary Community Plan
   
1.4.4   Other Plans, Ordinances, and Manuals
1.5   ZONING MAP
   
1.5.1   Incorporation Into This Ordinance
   
1.5.2   Interpretation of District Boundaries
   
1.5.3   Transition to New Zoning Districts
   
1.5.4   Transition to Conditional Zoning
1.6   JURISDICTION AND APPLICABILITY
   
1.6.1   General
   
1.6.2   Applicability to County and Federal Property
   
1.6.3   Applicability to State Property
   
1.6.4   Applicability to Public Utilities
   
1.6.5   Applicability to Bona Fide Farms
1.7   LDO COMPLIANCE REQUIRED
1.8   CONFLICTING PROVISIONS
   
1.8.1   Conflict with Other Public Laws, Ordinances, Regulations, or Permits
   
1.8.2   Conflict with Private Agreements
1.9   SEVERABILITY
1.10   TRANSITIONAL RULES
   
1.10.1   Violations Continue
   
1.10.2   Approved Projects
   
1.10.3   Pending Applications
   
1.10.4   Nonconformities Under Prior Ordinance
   
1.10.5   Uses and Structures Rendered Nonconforming
1.11   NAME OF DEPARTMENT
1.12   MAPS
1.1   TITLE; EFFECTIVE DATE
This Ordinance shall be officially known as the "Land Development Ordinance of
the Town of Cary, North Carolina." It also may be called the "LDO" or the
"Zoning Ordinance," and is referred to throughout this document as "this
Ordinance." This Ordinance shall become effective on July 1, 2003.
1.2   AUTHORITY
This Ordinance is adopted pursuant to authority granted to the Town of Cary by
the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina, and especially the Town
Charter; North Carolina General Statutes (N.C.G.S. or NCGS or G.S.) Chapter
160D (Local Planning and Development Regulation); G.S. Chapter 113A, Article 4
(Sedimentation Pollution Control); G.S. Chapter 143, Article 21, Part 6
(Floodway Regulation); G.S. Chapter 63, Article 4 (Airport Zoning); G.S.
Chapter 136 (Roads and Highways); G.S. Chapter 157 (Housing); G.S. 143, Article
21, Part 1 (Water Supply Watershed Protection); and any special legislation
enacted for the Town of Cary as amended.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
1.3   GENERAL PURPOSES
   The provisions of this Ordinance are enacted to promote and protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare, and to implement the policies of
the Cary Comprehensive Plan. The regulations are specifically intended to:
   1.3.1   Preserve the character and quality of residential neighborhoods;
   1.3.2   Foster convenient, compatible, and efficient relationships among
land uses;
   1.3.3   Lessen congestion in the streets;
   1.3.4   Ensure the provision of adequate open space for light, air, and fire
safety;
   1.3.5   Prevent the overcrowding of land and avoid undue concentrations of
population;
   1.3.6   Facilitate the efficient, adequate, and safe provision of
transportation, water, wastewater treatment, schools, parks, and other public
facilities and requirements;
   1.3.7   Ensure that service demands of new development will not exceed the
capabilities of existing streets, utilities, or other public facilities and
services;
   1.3.8   Maintain and enhance the character of various districts within the
Town, in light of their peculiar suitability for particular uses;
   1.3.9   Maintain and protect high quality aesthetic standards for
development;
   1.3.10   Conserve the value of buildings and land and encourage the most
appropriate use of land;
   1.3.11   Conserve the natural resources and environmental quality of the
Town and its environs; and
   1.3.12   Protect development in and residents of the community from flooding
and other hazards.
(Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
1.4   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND OTHER PLANS AND MANUALS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60719.jpg]New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 1.4 has been added by Ord. 2023-LDO-03, approved 6/
22/2023, effective 6/22/2023.
   1.4.1   Purpose and Role
   The Comprehensive Plan for the Town of Cary shall serve as the basic policy
guide for the administration of this Ordinance. The Comprehensive Plan serves
as the statement of goals, recommendations, and policies guiding the
development of the physical environment of the Town, its extraterritorial
jurisdiction, and any other geographic areas specifically addressed by the
Comprehensive Plan. The goals, vision, recommendations, and policies of the
Comprehensive Plan may be amended from time to time to meet the changing
requirements of the Town and any other geographic areas addressed by the
Comprehensive Plan. Any reference to the Comprehensive Plan in effect prior to
January 24, 2017 shall be interpreted as referring to the Cary Community Plan
adopted on January 24, 2017 and associated documents, as amended. Procedures
for amending the Comprehensive Plan are set forth in Section
3.2. The Comprehensive Plan serves as the plan required by G.S. 160D-501.
   1.4.2   Legal Effect
      All development and redevelopment within the Town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction should be in accordance with the policy direction
provided by all of the applicable elements or volumes of the Comprehensive
Plan, as adopted or amended by the Town Council. Amendments to the text of this
Ordinance (see Section
3.3) and/or rezoning of property (see Section
3.4) may be required in order to ensure compliance with this section.
   1.4.3   Components of the Comprehensive Plan
   The Comprehensive Plan consists of the following documents:
      (A)   Cary Community Plan
         The Cary Community Plan is a long-range policy document that expresses
the Town’s official long-term vision, values, and policies related to a wide
range of topics including housing and neighborhoods; economic growth and
resilience; economic development; land development and urban form; public
transportation facilities and services; and a wide range of municipal public
services, including utilities, public safety, environmental protection, solid
waste, and others. As such, the Cary Community Plan provides guidance to the
Town’s current and future decision-makers regarding land development, capital
improvements, public facilities and services, and public programs. It directs
growth by providing a policy framework to guide the evaluation and
consideration of zoning map and text amendments, annexations, and development
plans. The plan is also used to direct provision of public infrastructure,
programs, and services, and aid and inform decisions for private sector
investment.
         While the Cary Community Plan is primarily a policy-based plan, it
also provides overarching guidance for the geographic arrangement of future
development. This is provided via a “Future Growth Framework,” expressed in
Chapter 6, “Shape”. The Future Growth Framework includes a Future Growth
Framework Map that geographically organizes the Town’s physical layout,
structure and character into various development categories for residential and
commercial uses, mixed use areas, business and employment areas, and open
spaces. The plan also provides specialized policy guidance for a number of
“Special Planning Areas,” which are geographic subareas of the overall planning
area. For each Special Planning Area, the plan provides a unique vision,
policies, and a more highly detailed future growth framework and maps.
         The Town’s Comprehensive Transportation Plan consists of Chapter 7,
“Move,” and its associated appendices from the Cary Community Plan, together
with the 2012 Greenways Master Plan Map and Chapter 6, “Greenways & Trails,”
from the 2012 Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources Master Plan and any
associated appendices and updates.
      (B)   Appendices of the Cary Community Plan
         The following plans are expressly incorporated into the Cary Community
Plan and are contained in its Appendix. All of the documents in the Appendix
are considered part of the Cary Community Plan and the Comprehensive Plan.
         (1)   Chatham/Cary Joint Land Use Plan
            The Chatham-Cary Joint Land Use Plan covers over eighteen thousand
(18,000) acres located east of Jordan Lake in Chatham County. The area is
bordered by White Oak Creek to the south, Wake County to the east, Durham
County to the north and Jordan Lake to the west. The Plan is an official policy
document adopted by the Chatham County Board of Commissioners and Cary Town
Council meant to guide future land use regulations, public infrastructure
improvements and development. By guiding and limiting future development and
infrastructure improvements, the Plan aims to maintain the rural form and
character of most of the area, while still accommodating a limited amount of
suburban growth in the area closest to Research Triangle Park and the Western
Wake Freeway. The plan also seeks to protect water quality in Jordan Lake.
         (2)   Historic Preservation Master Plan
            The Historic Preservation Master Plan provides a framework for the
development of the Town’s formal preservation program, and will serve as a
guide for proactive preservation decision-making. The Plan synthesizes the
Town’s existing preservation efforts with the desires expressed by the
community during the planning process, and recommends actions for integrating
historic preservation into Town policies and regulatory activities. The scope
of this Plan includes the Town’s entire planning area, which includes Cary’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
         (3)   Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Master Plan
            The Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Master Plan charts a
course for providing a balanced system of cultural arts, active recreation,
passive recreation, and conservation facilities to all residents. It recognizes
current needs within the Town and allows for the flexibility to incorporate
future facilities that will address trends and the needs of residents as the
Town grows.
         (4)   Public Art Master Plan
            The Public Art Master Plan suggests venues, art types, and themes
for public art based on public input and an urban design analysis of existing
and desired conditions, and identifies numerous educational and outreach
programs for implementation.
         (5)   Consolidated Housing Plan
            The Consolidated Housing and Community development plan provides a
framework for the Town to assess its affordable housing and community
development needs, and to make data-driven, place-based investment decisions in
response to them. The consolidated planning process also serves as the
mechanism for community dialogue to identify housing and community development
priorities that inform and focus funding from the federal Community Development
Block Grant (CDBG) Program and from the Town’s general fund.
   1.4.4   Other Plans, Ordinances and Manuals
   In addition to the Comprehensive Plan, other plans and manuals contain
additional recommendations, policies, and standards regarding development
within the Town. It is the intent of the Town to administer this Ordinance in
accordance with these supplemental plans and manuals, including subsequent
amendments. Amendments to these supplemental plans and manuals shall not be
required to follow the procedures for amending the Comprehensive Plan set forth
in Section
3.2.
      Plans, manuals and ordinances containing recommendations, policies, and
standards regarding development within the Town include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Town of Cary Code of Ordinances
      (2)   Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual
      (3)   Community_Appearance_Manual
      (4)   Site Design Standards
      (5)   Downtown Streetscape Master Plan
      (6)   Swift Creek Land Management Plan
      (7)   Long Range Water Resources Plan
      (8)   Reclaimed Water Master Plan
      (9)   Wastewater Collection System Plan
      (10)   Water Distribution System Plan
(Ord. No. 2014-LDO-02, 6-26-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2017-
LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23)
1.5   ZONING MAP
   1.5.1   Incorporation Into This Ordinance
   The Official Zoning District Map, which is referred to throughout this
Ordinance as the "Zoning Map," along with all notations, references, and other
information shown thereon, such as zoning districts and extraterritorial
jurisdiction, is hereby incorporated into and made part of this Ordinance. As
part of this Ordinance, the Zoning Map shall be amended only in accordance with
the procedures set forth in Section
3.4 of this Ordinance. The Planning and Development Services Department will
keep and maintain the Zoning Map.
   1.5.2   Interpretation of District Boundaries
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the zoning
districts shown on the Zoning Map, the Planning Director shall use the rules
set forth below to interpret the Zoning Map. Appeals shall be made to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to Section
3.21.
      (A)   Where the Zoning Map shows a zoning district boundary line located
within or following a street or alley right-of-way, railroad or utility line
right-of-way, easement, or waterway, the district boundary shall be considered
to be in the center of the right-of-way, easement, or waterway. If the actual
location of such riright-of-way, easement, or waterway, as indicated in a
recorded legal description of such, varies slightly from the location shown on
the Zoning Map, then the actual location shall control.
      (B)   Where the Zoning Map shows a boundary line as being located a
specific distance from a street line or other physical feature, this distance
shall control.
      (C)   Where the Zoning Map shows a district boundary to coincide with a
property line or municipal border, the legal property line or municipal border
shall be considered to be the district boundary, unless otherwise indicated on
the Map.
      (D)   Where the Zoning Map shows a district boundary to not coincide or
approximately coincide with any street, alley, railroad, waterway, or property
line, and no dimensions are shown, the location of the boundary shall be
determined by use of the scale appearing on the Zoning Map.
      (E)   Where the Zoning Map shows a district boundary dividing a lot, each
part of the lot shall be used in conformity with the standards established by
this Ordinance for the zoning district in which that part is located.
      (F)   Where the case record conflicts with the Zoning Map, the case
record shall control. For example, if the Zoning Map shows a property to be
zoned GC, yet the case record shows that the property was actually zoned O&I,
the case record would control and the map would be changed to reflect the case
record.
   1.5.3   Transition to New Zoning Districts
   Upon adoption of this Ordinance, land that is presently zoned within an
existing zoning classification shall be classified within one of the zoning
classifications set forth in
Chapter 4, Zoning Districts and as shown in this table. The following table
summarizes the transition from old Unified Development Ordinance districts to
new districts set forth in this Land Development Ordinance.
TABLE 1.5-1: NEW VERSUS OLD ZONING DISTRICTS
Old Zoning Districts New Zoning Districts
TABLE 1.5-1: NEW VERSUS OLD ZONING DISTRICTS
Old Zoning Districts                   New Zoning Districts
Resource Conservation (RC)             Resource/Recreation (RR)
                                       Residential 80 (R-80)
Residential 40 (R-40)                  Residential 40 (R-40)
Residential 30 (R-30)
                                       Residential 20 (R-20)
Residential 40 Conforming (R-40 C)
Residential 30 Conforming (R-30 C)
Residential 12 (R-12)                  Residential 12 (R-12)
Residential 10 (R-10)
Residential 8 (R-8)                    Residential 8 (R-8)
Residential Mixed (RM)                 Transitional Resident (TR)
Downtown Residential (DR)
Residential Multi-Family 12 (RMF-12)   Residential Multi-Family (RMF)
Residential Multi-Family 8 (RMF-8)     Residential Multi-Family (RMF)
Mobile Home (MH)
                                       Corridor Transition (CT)
Office & Institutional (O&I)           Office & Institutional (O&I)
Commercial District (B-2)              General Commercial (GC)
Business District (B-1)
Planned Employment Center (PEC)        Office, Research & Development (ORD)
Light Industrial (I-1)                 Industrial (I)
Heavy Industrial (I-2)                 Industrial (I)
                                       Town Center (TC)
Planned Unit Development Overlay       Planned Development District Major (PDD)
Planned Unit Development Overlay       Planned Development District Minor (PDD)
Airport Overlay                        Airport Overlay
Thoroughfare Corridor Overlay          Thoroughfare Corridor Overlay
Downtown Overlays
Reservoir Watershed Protection Overlay Watershed Protection Overlay
                                       Mixed Use Overlay District
 
   1.5.4   Transition to Conditional Zoning
   Upon adoption of this Ordinance, any land that was subject to a Conditional
Use Permit that was approved prior to the effective date of this Ordinance
shall continue to be governed by the conditions of the approved Conditional Use
Permit as recorded with the Wake County Register of Deeds or Chatham County
Register of Deeds, regardless of the property's designation on the Official
Zoning Map as a Conditional Use District, Conditional District, or General Use
District.
   All provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to all properties that are the
subject of Conditional Use Permits approved prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance; however, all conditions contained in such Conditional Use Permits
shall remain valid until amended, unless such conditions are in conflict with
this Ordinance, any federal or state laws, or other existing Town ordinance. In
such situations, the more restrictive condition or law shall govern.
(Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2021-Code-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-
03, 6-22-23)
1.6   JURISDICTION AND APPLICABILITY
   1.6.1   General
      (A)   The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to all land,
buildings, structures, and uses thereof located within the corporate limits of
the Town of Cary and within the Town's extraterritorial jurisdiction, as
identified on the Zoning Map, including land owned by local agencies.
      (B)   If a parcel of land lies within the planning and development
regulation jurisdiction of Cary and one or more other local governments, the
local governments may, by mutual agreement pursuant to Article 20 of Chapter
160A of the General Statutes and with the written consent of the landowner,
assign exclusive planning and development regulation jurisdiction for the
entire parcel to any one of those local governments, following the procedure
provided in G.S. 160D-203.
   1.6.2   Applicability to County and Federal Property
   To the extent allowed by law, the provisions of this Ordinance shall apply
to all land, buildings, structures, and uses owned by county or federal
agencies within the corporate limits of the Town of Cary. Where the provisions
of this Ordinance do not apply to such structures and land, such agencies are
encouraged to meet the provisions of this Ordinance.
   1.6.3   Applicability to State Property
   The provisions of this Ordinance are applicable to the erection,
construction, and use of buildings owned by the State of North Carolina under
G.S. 160D-913; however, no land owned by the State may be included within an
overlay district or a special use or conditional use district without approval
of the Council of State.. To the extent allowed by law, the provisions of this
Ordinance shall apply to all land, structures, and uses owned or used by the
State of North Carolina. Where the provisions of this Ordinance do not apply to
such land, structures, and uses, the State is encouraged to meet the provisions
of this Ordinance.
   1.6.4   Applicability to Public Utilities
   To the extent allowed by law, the provisions of this Ordinance shall apply
to all land, buildings, structures, and uses owned or used by Public Utilities
(as such term is defined by G.S. § 62-3). Where the provisions of this
Ordinance do not apply to such structures and land, such Public Utilities are
encouraged to meet the provisions of this Ordinance.
   1.6.5   Applicability to Bona Fide Farms
   Property that is located in the Town's extraterritorial jurisdiction and
that is used for bona fide farm purposes is exempt from the provisions of this
Ordinance to the same extent bona fide farming activities are exempt from
county zoning pursuant to G.S. 160D-903. Property that is located in the Town's
extraterritorial jurisdiction and that ceases to be used for bona fide farm
purposes shall become subject to the provisions of this Ordinance. As used in
this section, "bona fide farm purposes" is as described in G.S. 160D-903. As
used in this section, "property" means a single tract of property or an
identifiable portion of a single tract. For purposes of complying with State or
federal law, property that is exempt from zoning pursuant to G.S. 160D-903 is
subject to the county's floodplain regulation or all floodplain regulation
provisions of the county's unified development ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No.
2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
1.7   LDO COMPLIANCE REQUIRED
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
or altered for use, nor shall any land, building, or structure be used or
changed, except in accordance with all of the applicable regulations
established by this Ordinance, including the district regulations of
Chapter 4, the use regulations of
Chapter 5, the dimensional standards of
Chapter 6, and the development and design standards of
Chapter 7. No lot of record that did not exist on the effective date of this
Ordinance shall be created, by subdivision or otherwise, that does not conform
to the applicable requirements of this Ordinance.
1.8   CONFLICTING PROVISIONS
   1.8.1   Conflict with Other Public Laws, Ordinances, Regulations, or Permits
   This Ordinance is not intended to revoke or repeal any other public law,
ordinance, regulation, or permit. However, where conditions, standards, or
requirements imposed by any provision of this Ordinance are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable standards imposed by any other
public law, ordinance, or regulation, the provisions that are more restrictive
or that impose higher standards or requirements shall govern. Wherever the
provisions of this Ordinance require a greater width or size of yards or
courts, a lower height of building, a lesser number of stories, or a greater
percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other standards which are
higher than those set forth in another statute, ordinance, or regulation, then
the provisions of this Ordinance shall govern. Wherever the provisions of any
other statute, ordinance, or regulation require a greater width or size of yard
or courts, a lower height of building, a lesser number of stories, or a greater
percentage of lot to be left unoccupied, or impose other standards which are
higher than those set forth in this Ordinance, then the provisions of such
statute, ordinance, or regulation shall govern.
   1.8.2   Conflict with Private Agreements
   This Ordinance is not intended to revoke or repeal any easement, covenant,
or other private agreement. However, where the regulations of this Ordinance
are more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such
easement, covenant, or other private agreement, then the requirements of this
Ordinance shall govern. Nothing in this Ordinance shall modify or repeal any
private covenant or deed restriction, but such covenant or restriction shall
not excuse any failure to comply with this Ordinance. In no case shall the Town
be obligated to enforce the provisions of any easements, covenants, or
agreements between private parties.
1.9   SEVERABILITY
If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates any section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, word or portion ('portion') of this Ordinance, then
such judgment shall not affect the validity and continued enforcement of any
other portion of this Ordinance and all remaining portions shall remain in full
force and effect. If any court of competent jurisdiction invalidates the
application of any portion of this Ordinance, then such judgment shall not
affect the application of that portion to any other building, structure, or use
not specifically included in that judgment. If any court of competent
jurisdiction judges invalid any condition attached to the approval of an
application for development approval or the approval of a request for rezoning
to a conditional use district, then such judgment shall not affect any other
conditions or requirements attached to the same approval which are not
specifically included in that judgment. Severability is expressly intended
throughout and within the provisions of Chapter 9 even if such severability
would result in a situation where there would be less speech, such as by
subjecting previously exempt signs to that chapter. Without diminishing or
limiting in any way the declaration of severability set forth above, if any
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word or portion of this
Ordinance is declared or held to be unconstitutional or invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such declaration or holding shall not affect any other
section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, word or portion of this
Ordinance that pertains to prohibited signs, including specifically the
prohibition on off-site signs and those signs and sign-types prohibited and not
allowed under Section
9.4 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10)
1.10   TRANSITIONAL RULES
   1.10.1   Violations Continue
   Any violation of the previous Unified Development Ordinance shall continue
to be a violation under this Ordinance and be subject to penalties and
enforcement under
Chapter 11, unless the use, development, construction, or other activity
complies with the provisions of this Ordinance. Payment shall be required for
any civil penalty assessed under the previous Unified Development Ordinance,
even if the original violation is no longer considered a violation under this
Ordinance.
   1.10.2   Approved Projects
      (A)   Special use permits, development plan approvals, grading permits,
building permits, sign permits, and variances, any of which are valid on July
1, 2003, shall remain valid until their expiration date. Projects with valid
approvals or permits may be carried out with the development standards in
effect at the time of approval, provided that the permit or approval is valid
and has not lapsed.
      (B)   No provision of this Ordinance shall require any change in the
plans, construction, or designated use of any structure for which a building
permit has been issued prior to July 1, 2003.
      (C)   Any re-application for an expired project approval shall meet the
standards in effect at the time of re-application.
   1.10.3   Pending Applications
   All pending projects for which a complete application was submitted and
accepted by the Town prior to the effective date of this Ordinance shall be
exempt from complying with all provisions of this Ordinance, but shall be
required to comply with the previous Unified Development Ordinance. Development
plan applications and rezonings received prior to the effective date of this
Ordinance that are inactive shall be deemed denied.
   1.10.4   Nonconformities Under Prior Ordinance
   Any nonconformity under the previous Unified Development Ordinance will also
be a nonconformity under this Ordinance, as long as the situation that resulted
in the nonconforming status under the previous Ordinance continues to exist. If
a nonconformity under the previous Ordinance becomes conforming because of the
adoption of this Ordinance, then the situation will no longer be a
nonconformity.
   1.10.5   Uses and Structures Rendered Nonconforming
      (A)   When a lot is used for a purpose that was a lawful use before the
effective date of this Ordinance, and this Ordinance no longer classifies such
use as either a permitted use or special use in the zoning district in which it
is located, such use shall be considered nonconforming and shall be controlled
by the provisions of
Chapter 10 of this Ordinance.
      (B)   Where any building, structure, or lot that legally existed on the
effective date of this Ordinance does not meet all standards set forth in this
Ordinance, such building, structure, or lot shall be considered nonconforming
and shall be controlled by the provisions of
Chapter 10 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
1.11 NAME OF DEPARTMENT
   Any reference to the Planning Department in this Ordinance shall be a
reference to the Planning and Development Services Department or any successor
department, regardless of name. Any reference to the Planning Director shall be
a reference to the Director of the Planning and Development Services Department
or any successor department, regardless of name.
(Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19)
1.12 MAPS
Provisions of this Ordinance may reference or incorporate by reference flood
insurance rate maps, watershed boundary maps, USGS quad maps, or other maps
officially adopted or promulgated by State and federal agencies. Any reference
to such maps is a reference to the most recent officially adopted version of
such maps unless otherwise explicitly stated. When zoning district boundaries
are based on these maps, zoning district boundaries are automatically amended
to remain consistent with changes in the officially promulgated State or
federal maps. A copy of the currently effective version of any incorporated map
shall be maintained for public inspection by the Planning and Development
Services Department.
(Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
Chapter 2: REVIEW AND DECISION-MAKING BODIES
2.1   SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW ROLES
   
2.1.1   Ordinance Administration and review bodies
   
2.1.2   Summary Table of Administration and Review Roles
   
2.1.3   Review by Others
   
2.1.4   Membership and Procedures
2.2   TOWN COUNCIL
   
2.2.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
2.3   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
   
2.3.1   Review Responsibilities
   
2.3.2   Other Powers and Duties
2.4   ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   
2.4.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   
2.4.2   Other Powers and Duties
2.5   HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
   
2.5.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   
2.5.2   Other Powers and Duties
2.6   PARKS, RECREATION, AND CULTURAL RESOURCES ADVISORY BOARD
   
2.6.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   
2.6.2   Other Powers and Duties
2.7   PUBLIC ART ADVISORY BOARD
   
2.7.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   
2.7.2   Other Powers and Duties
2.8   STAFF DEPARTMENTS
   
2.8.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   
2.8.2   Development Review Committee
   
2.8.3   Conflicts of Interest
2.1   SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW ROLES
   2.1.1   Ordinance Administration and Review Bodies
   The following entities shall have roles in administering the provisions of
this Ordinance:
      (A)   Town Council;
      (B)   Planning and Zoning Board;
      (C)   Zoning Board of Adjustment;
      (D)   Historic Preservation Commission;
      (E)   Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Advisory Board;
      (F)   Public Art Advisory Board; and
      (G)   Staff departments.
   Information regarding membership and operating procedures for each of these
entities may be obtained from the Town Code of Ordinances.
   2.1.2   Summary Table of Administration and Review Roles
   Table
2.1-1 summarizes the review and decision-making responsibilities of the
entities that have specific roles in the administration of the procedures set
forth in
Chapter 3 and
Chapter 4. The notes referenced in the last column are set forth at the end of
the table. Other duties and responsibilities of the entities are set forth in
the following sections.
   2.1.3   Review by Others
   Even though not referenced in
Table 2.1-1, other boards, commissions, and/or committees may be asked to
review some applications, including, but not limited to rezonings and
development plans.
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_2.1-1
TABLE 2.1-1: SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW ROLES
NOTE: This table summarizes the general review and decision-making
responsibilities for the procedures contained in Chapter 3.
Exceptions to these general rules may apply; see Chapter 3 for complete
details on each procedure.
Review = Responsible for Review and/or Recommendation Hearing = Public or
Quasi- Judicial Hearing Required
Decision = Responsible for Final Decision to Approve or Deny Appeal =
Authority to Hear and Decide Appeals
                          Planning   Zoning    PRCR
Procedure Section Town    and Zoning Board of  Advisor y HPC Staff       Notes
                  Council Board      Adjustmen Board         Departments
                                     t
TABLE 2.1-1: SUMMARY OF ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATION AND REVIEW ROLES
NOTE: This table summarizes the general review and decision-making responsibilities for
the procedures contained in Chapter 3.
Exceptions to these general rules may apply; see Chapter 3 for complete details on each
procedure.
Review = Responsible for Review and/or Recommendation Hearing = Public or Quasi-
Judicial Hearing Required
Decision = Responsible for Final Decision to Approve or Deny Appeal = Authority to Hear
and Decide Appeals
                                 Planning Zoning    PRCR
Procedure       Section Town     and      Board of  Advisor HPC     Staff       Notes
                        Council  Zoning   Adjustmen y Board         Departments
                                 Board    t
Amendment to
the             3.2.1   Decision -        -                -       Review/     [1]
Comprehensive                             -                         Decision
Plan (Cosmetic)
Initial
Adoption of or          Hearing
Amendment to    3.2.2   /        Review   -         Review  -       Review      [1]
the Compre-             Decisio
hensive Plan            n
(Substantive)
                        Hearing
Amendment to    3.3     /        Review   -         -       -       Review       
LDO Text                Decisio
                        n
                        Hearing
Rezoning        3.4     /        Review   -         Review  -       Review      [5][10]
                        Decisio
                        n
Accessory Use   3.5     -        -        Appeal    -       -       Review/      
Permit                                                              Decision
Permitted Use   3.6     -        -        -         -       -       Review       
Temporary Use   3.7     -        -        Appeal    -       -       Review/      
                                                                    Decision
Special Use     3.8     -        -        Hearing/  -       -       Review       
                                          Decision
Subdivision     3.9     -        -                        -       Review/      
Plat                                      -         -       -       Decision
Development                               Decision/                 Review/     [2][3]
Plan            3.9     -        -        Appeal    -       -       Decision    [4 ][5]
                                          (some)                    (some)      [6]
Designation of          Hearing                             Hearin
Historic Land-  3.27    /        -        -         -       g/      Review       
mark                    Decisio                             Review
                        n
Designation of          Hearing
Historic        3.27    /        Review   -         -       Review  Review       
District                Decisio
                        n
Certificate of                                                      Review/
Appropriateness 3.27    -        -        Appeal    -       -       Decision    [13]
- Minor Works
Certificate of                                              Hearin
Appropriaten    3.27    -        -        Appeal    -       g/      Review      [13]
ess - Major                                                 Decisio             [14]
Works                                                       n
Certificate of                                              Hearing
Appropriateness                                             /                   [13]
- Demolition of 3.27    -        -        Appeal    -       Decisio Review      [14]
Historic                                                    n
Structures
Development in                                                      Review/
Flood Hazard    3.12    -        -        Appeal    -       -       Decision     
Area
Grading Permit  3.13    -        -        Appeal    -       -       Review/      
                                                                    Decision
Building Permit 3.14    -        -        -         -       -       Review/     [9]
                                                                    Decision
Certificate of  3.15    -        -        Appeal    -       -       Review/      
Occupancy                                                           Decision
Sign Permit     3.16    -        -        Appeal    -       -       Review/      
                                                                    Decision
                        Hearing
Site-Specific   3.17    /        -        -         -       -       Review       
Vesting Plan            Decisio
                        n
Reimbursement   3.24    -        -        -         -       -       Review/      
Agreement                                                           Decision
                        Hearing
Development     3.24    /        -        -         -       -       Review       
Agreement               Decisio
                        n
                                          Hearing/                  Review/
Minor           3.19    -        -        Decision  -       -       Decision     
Modification                              (some)                    (some)
                                          Appeal
Variance        3.20    -        -        Hearing/  -       -       Review      [13]
                                          Decision
Appeals from
decisions of an
administrative  3.21    -        -        Hearing/  -       -       Review      [11]
official,                                 Decision                              [13]
including fines
and penalties
Reasonable      3.25    -        -        Hearing/  -       -       Review      [13]
Accommodation                             Decision
Zoning                                                              Review/
Compliance      3.26    -        -        Appeal    -       -       Decision    [13]
Permit
Tree Clearing   3.22    -        -        Appeal    -       -       Review/      
Certificate                                                         Decision
Transportation                            Hearing/
Development     7.11    -        -        Decision; -       -       -           [7]
Fees                                      Appeal
Mixed Use               Decisio                                     Review/
Center Sketch   4.4.2   n        Review   -         -       -       Decision    [12]
Plan
NOTES to Table 2.1-1:
                The Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Advisory Board reviews
[1]             only those proposed amendments that involve the parks/recreation
                element of the Comprehensive Plan.
[2]             The Zoning Board of Adjustment and the Planning Director have final
                decision-making authority on development plans; see Section 3.9.
                The Zoning Board of Adjustment hears appeals of decisions of the
[3]             Planning Director regarding development plans that are administratively
                approved by staff; see Section 3.9.
                The Zoning Board of Adjustment hears appeals of decisions of the
[4]             Planning Director regarding applications for changes to approved
                development plans; see Section 3.9.
                The Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Advisory Board’s review
[5]             of development plans is limited to proposed dedications of land or
                fees-in-lieu of dedication.
                The Zoning Board of Adjustment hears appeals of decisions of the
[6]             Planning Director regarding initial development plan applications that
                are approved by staff, and also requests for changes to approved
                development plans; see Section 3.9.
[7]             The Zoning Board of Adjustment makes the final decision on requests for
                individual assessments and hears appeals of assessments.
[8]             [Reserved]
[9]             Appeal of Building Permit related issues goes to the North Carolina
                Building Code Council.
[10]            The Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Advisory Board reviews
                the recreation land dedication proposals associated with PDD rezonings.
[11]            The Zoning Board of Adjustment hears appeals related to development
                within the Flood Hazard Area and Grading Permits.
[12]            Mixed Use Center sketch plans may be reviewed by staff as defined in
                section 4.4.2.
[13]            Superior Court hears appeals of Zoning Board of Adjustment decisions.
[14]            Zoning Board of Adjustment review is in the nature of certiorari.
 
   2.1.4   Membership and Procedures
   Detailed information on membership criteria and review body procedures for
each of the review bodies is located within Chapter
2 of the Town Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 04-011, 9-9-04; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06;
Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 12-LDO-01, 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-
03, 5-10-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord.
No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-02,
6-26-14; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-02, 8-9-18; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No.
2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
2.2   TOWN COUNCIL
   2.2.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   Without limiting any authority granted to the Town Council by State law or
by other ordinances of the Town, the Town Council shall, with respect to this
Ordinance, have the powers and duties set forth in Table
2.1-1, to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance.
2.3   PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD
   2.3.1   Review Responsibilities
   The Planning and Zoning Board shall have the review responsibilities set
forth in Table
2.1-1, to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance.
   2.3.2   Other Powers and Duties
   In addition, the Planning and Zoning Board shall have the following powers
and duties, to be carried out at the direction of the Town Council:
   To formulate and recommend to the Town Council the adoption or amendment of
a Comprehensive Plan and other plans for the Town and its environs as deemed
appropriate, and conduct ongoing related research, data collection, mapping,
and analysis;
   To review the terms of this Ordinance from time to time, as it deems
appropriate, and to recommend to the Town Council any changes that the Board
considers necessary to carry out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   To advise the Town Council concerning the implementation of plans,
including, but not limited to, review and comment on all zoning text and map
amendments;
   Such additional powers and duties as may be set forth for the Planning and
Zoning Board elsewhere in this Ordinance and other ordinances of the Town or as
may be recited by the Town Council.
(Ord. No. 2018-LDO-02, 8-9-2018; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
2.4   ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
   2.4.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the review and decision-making
responsibilities set forth in Table
2.1-1, to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance.
   2.4.2   Other Powers and Duties
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the following additional powers
and duties, to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance:
      (A)   To subpoena witnesses and compel production of evidence pursuant to
the provisions of G.S. 160D-406(g); and
      (B)   Such additional powers and duties as may be set forth for the
Zoning Board of Adjustment elsewhere in this Ordinance and other ordinances of
the Town.
(Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
2.5   HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
   2.5.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
      The Historic Preservation Commission shall have the review and decision-
making responsibilities set forth in
Table 2.1-1, to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance,
G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4, and the authority granted in Session Law
2007-66, House Bill 827 ratified June 7, 2007 by the General Assembly of the
State of North Carolina.
   2.5.2   Other Powers and Duties
      The Historic Preservation Commission shall have the following additional
powers and duties within the town's zoning jurisdiction, to be carried out in
accordance with the terms of this Ordinance and G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9,
Part 4:
      (A)   To undertake an inventory of properties of historical, pre-
historical, architectural, and/or cultural significance.
      (B)   To recommend to the Town Council, individual buildings, structures,
sites, areas, or objects to be designated by ordinance as "historic landmarks,"
and areas to be designated by ordinance as "historic districts."
      (C)   To recommend to the Town Council that designation of any area as a
historic district or part thereof, or designation of any building, structure,
site, area, or object as a historic landmark, be revoked or removed for cause.
      (D)   To review and act upon proposals for alteration or demolition of
designated landmarks; for alteration, demolition, or new construction within
historic districts.
      (E)   To cooperate with state, federal and other local governments in
pursuing the purposes of this Section
2.5. The Town Council, or the Historic Preservation Commission when authorized
by the Town Council, may contract with the State, or the United States of
America, or any agency of either, or with any other organization, provided the
terms are not inconsistent with state or federal law.
      (F)   To review National Register nominations for properties in the
Town's zoning jurisdiction and provide a reasonable opportunity for public
comment; and then submit to the State Historic Preservation Officer comments as
to whether or not, in the commission's opinion, the property or district meets
the National Register of Historic Places criteria.
      (G)   To prepare and recommend the official adoption of a historic
preservation element as part of the town's comprehensive plan at the request of
the Town Council.
      (H)   To enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee or agent of the commission may enter any private
building or structure without the express consent of the owner or occupant
thereof.
      (I)   To conduct educational programs with respect to historic properties
and districts.
      (J)   To negotiate at any time with the owner of a building, structure,
site, area or object regarding its preservation when such action is reasonably
necessary and appropriate.
      (K)   To prepare and adopt principles and guidelines for altering,
restoring, moving, or demolishing properties, not inconsistent with G.S.
Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4, designated as landmarks or within historic
districts.
(Ord. No. 2014-LDO-02, 6-26-14; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
2.6   PARKS, RECREATION, AND CULTURAL RESOURCES ADVISORY BOARD
   2.6.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   The Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Advisory Board shall have the
review and decision-making responsibilities set forth in Table
2.1-1, to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance.
   2.6.2   Other Powers and Duties
   The Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Advisory Board shall have the
following additional powers and duties, to be carried out in accordance with
the terms of this Ordinance:
      (A)   To develop and implement the Parks, Recreation and Cultural
Resources Master Plan and other park-related, plans, policies, and programs;
      (B)   Upon request of the Town Council or a staff department, to review
proposed amendments to this Ordinance, proposed rezonings of property under
this Ordinance, and proposed development plans, and to make recommendations to
the Town Council for final action thereon;
      (C)   To report to the Town Council the recommendations of its various
committees as they relate to Land Use and Development; additional powers and
duties as may be set forth for the Board elsewhere in this Ordinance and other
ordinances of the Town.
(Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-02, 8-9-2018; Ord. No. 2021-
LDO-01, 6-24-21)
2.7   PUBLIC ART ADVISORY BOARD
   2.7.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   The Public Art Advisory Board shall advise the Town Council on all matters
related to public art, including the acquisition and placement of works of art
as well as the maintenance, removal, relocation, or alteration of existing
works of art in the Town's possession and perform all duties with respect to
implementing a public art program in Cary, North Carolina.
   2.7.2   Other Powers and Duties
   The Public Art Advisory Board shall have the following additional powers and
duties, to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance:
      (A)   Review and make recommendations regarding proposed gifts of public
art to the Town of Cary, as well as loans and long term exhibitions of public
art on Town-owned property;
      (B)   Based on recommendations brought forward by the Program Staff,
periodically review and recommend changes to the Public Art Ordinance,
guidelines, policies, and procedures.
2.8   STAFF DEPARTMENTS
   2.8.1   Review and Decision-Making Responsibilities
   Town staff departments shall have the review and decision-making
responsibilities set forth in Table
2.1-1, to be carried out in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance. The
departments and agencies also shall have such additional powers and duties as
may be set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance and other ordinances of the Town.
   2.8.2   Development Review Committee
   The Development Review Committee is composed of multiple Town staff
departments working together to render decisions on applications as a single
decision-making body. The Town staff departments with review and decision-
making responsibilities under this Ordinance include, but are not necessarily
limited to, the: Planning, Administration, Transportation and Facilities,
Inspections and Permits, Fire, Parks Recreation and Cultural Resources, Public
Works, and Utilities Departments.
(Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19)
   2.8.3   Conflicts of Interest
      Pursuant to G.S.160D-109, no staff member shall make a final decision on
an administrative decision required by this Ordinance if the outcome of that
decision would have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable financial
impact on the staff member or if the applicant or other person subject to that
decision is a person with whom the staff member has a close familial, business,
or other associational relationship. If a staff member has a conflict of
interest, the decision shall be assigned to the supervisor of the staff person
or such other staff person as may be designated by the development regulation
or other ordinance.
      No staff member shall be financially interested or employed by a business
that is financially interested in a development subject to regulation under
this Ordinance unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building
involved. No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company
contracting with the Town to provide staff support shall engage in any work
that is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest of the Town,
as determined by the Town.
      Pursuant to G.S. 160D-1108, no member of the inspection department shall
be financially interested or employed by a business that is financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the
construction, alteration, or maintenance of any building or any part or system
thereof, or in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless the staff
member is the owner of the building. No member of the inspection department
shall engage in any work that is inconsistent with their duties or with the
interest of the Town. Specific examples of conflicts of interest are detailed
in G.S. 160D-1108.
(Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2021-
LDO-01, 6-24-21)
Chapter 3:    REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
3.1   COMMON REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
   
3.1.1   Authority to File Applications
   
3.1.2   Form of Application
   
3.1.3   Processing Fees
   
3.1.4   Application Completeness
   
3.1.5   Pre-Application Conferences
    (A) Applicability
    (B) Initiation of Pre-Application Conference
    (C) Pre-Application Conference Content
   
3.1.6   Notice Requirements
   (A) Content of Notices
   (B) Published Notice
   (C) Written (Mailed) Notice
   (D) Posted Notice
   (E) Constructive Notice
   (F) Type of Notice
   (G) [Reserved]
   (H) Expanded Published Notice Authorized
   
3.1.7   Hearing Procedures
   
3.1.8   Conditions of Approval
   
3.1.9   Simultaneous Processing of Development Applications
   
3.1.10   Owner-Initiated Annexation Petitions
   
3.1.11   Processing Cycles
   
3.1.12   Inaction by Review and Decision-Making Bodies
   
3.1.13   Lapse of Approval
   
3.1.14   Discontinuance of Application Review; Permit Expiration
   
3.1.15   Development Approval
   
3.1.16   Revocation of Development Approval
3.2   AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   
3.2.1   Cosmetic Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan
   
3.2.2   Regular Review of the Comprehensive Plan
   
3.2.3   Initiation of Comprehensive Plan Amendment by Town Council
   
3.2.4   Substantive Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan
   (A) Procedure
   (B) Standards of Review
3.3   AMENDMENTS TO THE TEXT OF THE LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   
3.3.1   Purpose and Scope
   
3.3.2   Procedure
   (A) Initiation of Amendments and Filing of Applications
   (B) Public Hearing; Public Notice
   (C) Planning Director Review, Report, and Recommendation
   (D) Review by Planning and Zoning Board
   (E) Town Council Action
   
3.3.3   Approval Criteria For Text Amendments
   
3.3.4   Effect of Decision on Successive Applications
   (A) Effect of Denial
   (B) Effect of Approval
3.4   REZONINGS
   
3.4.1   Rezonings Generally
   (A) Purpose and Scope
   (B) Conditional Use and Flexible Use District Rezonings Distinguished
   (C) Relationship to the Comprehensive Plan
   (D) Procedure
   (E) Rezoning Considerations
   (F) [Reserved]
   (G) Waiting Period for Subsequent Applications
   (H) [Reserved]
   (I) Repair of Zoning Map Errors
   
3.4.2   Rezonings to Conditional Use Districts
   (A) Purpose of Conditional Use Districts
   (B) Process Required
   (C) Conditions
   (D) Changes to Conditions of Approved Conditional Use District
   
3.4.3   Rezonings to Planned Development Districts
   (A) Applicability and Scope
   (B) Rezoning Procedures Apply
   (C) Coordination with Review of Development Plans
   (D) Procedure
   (E) Considerations
   (F) Effect of Approval
   (G) Submission of Conditions
   (H) Changes to Conditions of Approved Planned Development District
   
3.4.4   Rezonings in the Town Center (TC) District and Walnut Street Corridor
Transition (CT) District
   
3.4.5   Rezonings to Mixed Use District (MXD)
   (A) Applicability
   (B) Application
   (C) Review and Approval Process
   (D) Effect of Approval
   (E) Changes to Approved MXD Districts
   (F) Eligibility for Zoning Amendments
   (G) Waiting Period for Subsequent Applications
3.5   ACCESSORY USE PERMITS
   
3.5.1   Purpose
   
3.5.2   Applicability
   
3.5.3   Procedures
3.6   PERMITTED USES
3.7   TEMPORARY USES
   
3.7.1   Temporary Use Permit Required
   
3.7.2   Filing and Contents of Application
   
3.7.3   Filing Deadline
   
3.7.4   Approval Criteria
   
3.7.5   Duration of Permit
   
3.7.6   Temporary Structure Permit Required
3.8   SPECIAL USES
   
3.8.1   General Provisions
   (A) Purpose and Applicability
   (B) Relationship to Development Plan Requirements
   (C) Special Uses in Nonconforming Structures or Lots
   
3.8.2   Procedures
   (A) Pre-Application Conference
   (B) Filing of Application and Content Requirements
   (C) Notice and Conduct of Quasi-Judicial Evidentiary Hearings
   (D) Planning Director Review and Report
   (E) Town Council Review and Decision
   
3.8.3   Approval Criteria
   
3.8.4   Effect of Approval or Denial
   (A) Conditions
   (B) Subsequent Permits and Approvals
   (C) Transferability of Approval
   (D) Resubmission of Denied Applications
   (E) Recording of Approved Special Uses
   
3.8.5   Changes to Terms and Conditions of Approval
   
3.8.6   Appeal
3.9   SUBDIVISION PLATS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANS
   
3.9.1   Purpose and Structure of This Section; Applicability
   
3.9.2   Common Procedures for Review and Approval of Development Plans
   (A) Pre-Application Conference Required
   (B) Application Materials
   (C) Owner-Initiated Annexation Petition Required
   (D) Coordination of Plan Review with Special Use and/or Subdivision Plat
Review
   (E) Plans in Nonconforming Structures or Lots
   (F) Approval Authority
   (G) Planning Director Review and Approval Process
   (H) Town Council and Zoning Board of Adjustment Review and Approval Process
   (I) Approval Criteria
   (J) Recording of Instrument for Required Dedications
   (K) Effect of the Plan Approval
   (L) Effect of Decision on Successive Applications
   (M) Changes to Approved Plans
   
3.9.3   Subdivisions of Land
   (A) Purpose
   (B) Applicability
   (C) Prerequisites for Other Approvals
   (D) [Reserved]
   (E) Review and Approval of Final Plats
   (F) Actions by Register of Deeds
   (G) Restriction on Sale or Transfer of Subdivided Land without Approved Plat
   3.9.4   [Reserved]
3.10   [RESERVED]
3.11   RE-USE/REDEVELOPMENT PLANS
   
3.11.1   Intent
   
3.11.2   Changes Allowed for Nonconformities
   
3.11.3   Eligibility Requirements
   
3.11.4   Limitations
   
3.11.5   Dedication and Roadway Improvements
   
3.11.6   Required Improvements and Plan Submittal Requirements
   
3.11.7   Exceptions for Required Improvements
3.12   DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD HAZARD AREA
   
3.12.1   Floodplain Administrator
   
3.12.2   Permit and Approval Requirements
   (A) Compliance Required
   (B) Establishment of Floodplain Development Permit
   (C) Additional Requirement for Non-Residential Structures Located within the
Flood Hazard Area
   
3.12.3   Approval Procedure
   
3.12.4   Appeals
3.13   GRADING PERMITS
   
3.13.1   Purpose and Scope
   (A) Applicability
   (B) Exemptions from All Grading Standards and Permit Requirements
   (C) Exemptions from Grading Permit Requirements
   
3.13.2   Application Requirements
   
3.13.3   Review and Approval
   
3.13.4   Approval Criteria
   
3.13.5   Effect of Approval; Certificate of Erosion Control Compliance
   
3.13.6   Responsibility for Maintenance and Additional Erosion Control Measures
   
3.13.7   Changes to Approved Erosion Control Plans
   (A) Changes Initiated by Department
   (B) Changes Initiated by Applicant
3.14   BUILDING PERMITS
   
3.14.1   Building Permit Required
   
3.14.2   Application Requirements
   
3.14.3   Approval Procedure; Duration of Approval
   
3.14.4   Notification and Approval Before Construction Begins
   
3.14.5   Changes to Approved Permits
   
3.14.6   Revocation of Building Permit
3.15   CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
   
3.15.1   Certificate of Occupancy Required
   
3.15.2   Approval Procedure
3.16   SIGN PERMITS
   
3.16.1   Permits Required for Sign
   
3.16.2   Permits to be Consistent with This Chapter
   
3.16.3   Application Requirements
   
3.16.4   Approval Procedure
   
3.16.5   Lapse of Sign Permit
   
3.16.6   Reserved
   
3.16.7   Removal of Signs Upon Discontinuation of Use
3.17   SITE-SPECIFIC VESTING PLANS; VESTED RIGHTS
   
3.17.1   Purpose
   
3.17.2   Establishment and Effect of Site-Specific Vesting Plan
   
3.17.3   Vested Rights Period
   
3.17.4   Procedure
   (A) Applicability; application
   (B) Notice and Conduct of Public Hearings
   (C) Effect of Denial or Withdrawal of Application
   
3.17.5   Exceptions
   
3.17.6   Amendments to Approved Plan
   (A) Amendments approved by Planning Director
   (B) Changes Requiring Approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   (C) Changes Requiring a Variance
   
3.17.7   Provisions to Which Vesting Does Not Apply
   
3.17.8   Statutory and Common Law Vested Rights; Owner-Initiated Annexation
3.18   ADEQUATE PUBLIC SCHOOL FACILITIES (REPEALED 9/9/04)
3.19   MINOR MODIFICATIONS
   
3.19.1   Minor Modifications to Development and Zoning District Standards
   (A) Applicability
   (B) Exceptions to Authority to Grant Minor Modifications
   (C) Procedure
   (D) Conditions
   (E) Approval Criteria
   
3.19.2   Minor Modifications to Approved Development  Plans,  Plats, and PDD,
MXD, and Conditional Use Zoning Districts
   (A) Approved Development Plans or Plats
   (B) Approved PDD, MXD, or Conditional Use Zoning Districts
   
3.19.3   Minor Building Encroachments into Required Setbacks
3.20   VARIANCES
   
3.20.1   Purpose and Scope
   
3.20.2   Provisions From Which Variances Are Allowed
   
3.20.3   Application Requirements; Determination of Completeness
   (A) Persons Authorized to File Applications
   (B) Pre-Application Conference
   (C) Application Filing
   
3.20.4   Action by the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
3.20.5   Approval Criteria
   
3.20.6   Effect of Approval or Denial
   
3.20.7   [Reserved]
   
3.20.8   Appeal
3.21   APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS
   
3.21.1   Purpose and Scope
   
3.21.2   Decisions That May Be Appealed
   
3.21.3   Filing of Appeal; Effect of Filing
   
3.21.4   Action by the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
3.21.5   Effect of Reversal or Modification
   
3.21.6   Appeal from Zoning Board of Adjustment
3.22   RESERVED
3.23   RESERVED
3.24   REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS
   
3.24.1   Reimbursement Agreements
   (A) Authority
   (B) Municipal Infrastructure Reimbursement Agreements
   (C) Public Enterprise Reimbursement Agreements
   (D) Intersection and Roadway Improvement Agreements
   
3.24.2   Development Agreements
3.25   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
   
3.25.1   Authority and Purpose
   
3.25.2   Application Requirements; Determination of Completeness
   (A) Persons Authorized to File Applications
   (B) Pre-Application Conference
   (C) Application Filing
   
3.25.3   Action by the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
3.25.4   Approval Criteria
   (A) "Reasonable"
   (B) "Necessary"
   
3.25.5   Effect of Approval or Denial
   
3.25.6   [Reserved]
   
3.25.7   Appeal
3.26   ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT
   
3.26.1   Applicability
   
3.26.2   Approval Procedures
   (A) Submittal
   (B) Planning Director Decision
   (C) Actions Subsequent to Decision
   
3.26.3   Additional Provisions Applicable to Specific Uses
   (A) Group Homes and Family Care Home
3.27   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
   
3.27.1   Designation of Historic Districts/Historic Landmarks
   (A) Historic District Designation
   (B) Historic Landmark Designation
   
3.27.2   Certificates of Appropriateness
   (A) Certificate of Appropriateness Required
   (B) Certificate of Appropriateness - Minor Works (Minor COA)
   (C) Certificate of Appropriateness - Major Works (Major COA)
   (D) Certificate of Appropriateness - Demolition of Landmarks or of Buildings
within Historic Districts
3.1   COMMON REVIEW AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
   3.1.1   Authority to File Applications
      (A)   Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, applications for review
and approval may be initiated by:
         (1)   the owner of the property that is the subject of the
application; (2) a lessee or person holding an option or contract to purchase
or lease land; (3) the owner's authorized agents; or (4) any review or
decision-making body as specified in Chapter 2 of this Ordinance. An easement
holder may also apply for development approval for such development as is
authorized by the easement.
      (B)   When an authorized agent files an application under this chapter on
behalf of a property owner, the agent shall provide the Town with written
documentation that the owner of the property has authorized the filing of the
application.
      (B)   When an authorized agent files an application under this chapter on
behalf of a property owner, the agent shall provide the Town with written
documentation that the owner of the property has authorized the filing of the
application.
      (C)   When a review or decision-making body initiates action under this
Ordinance, it does so without prejudice toward the outcome.
   3.1.2   Form of Application
   Applications required under this chapter shall be submitted in a form and in
such number as required by the responsible staff department.
   3.1.3   Processing Fees
   Applications shall be accompanied by the fee amount that has been
established by the Town Council. The fees for permits and approvals are
periodically determined and changed by the Town Council through adoption of the
annual operating budget ordinance and are not part of the text of this
Ordinance. The fees are listed in a fee schedule that is available through the
various staff departments.
   3.1.4   Application Completeness
   An application will be considered complete if it is in the required form,
includes all mandatory information, including all supporting materials
specified by this Ordinance and by the official responsible for accepting the
application, and is accompanied by the applicable fee. The Planning Director
shall make a determination of application completeness. Until an application is
determined to be complete, an application has not been submitted. If an
application is determined to be incomplete, the Director shall provide notice
to the applicant along with an explanation of the application's deficiencies.
No further processing of the application shall occur until the deficiencies are
corrected in a future re-submittal. An application that is determined to be
incomplete may or may not retain its same processing cycle.
   3.1.5   Pre-Application Conferences
   The purpose of a pre-application conference is to familiarize the applicant
and the Town staff with the applicable provisions of this Ordinance that are
required to permit the proposed development. This conference should be held
prior to the initial creation of a development plan, if applicable, to ensure
that the plan will address all applicable requirements of this Ordinance.
      (A)   Applicability
         (1)   A pre-application conference generally is required prior to
submittal of the following types of applications:
            (a)   Substantive Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan (Section
3.2.2)
            (b)   Rezonings (Section
3.4);
            (c)   Special uses (Section
3.8);
            (d)   Development Plans (Section
3.9);
            (e)   Variances (Section
3.20);
         (2)   Pre-application conferences are not required for changes to
already-approved development plans if the following conditions are met:
            (a)   For non-residential development, the proposed increase in
building square footage is less than fifty (50) percent of the existing
building square footage.
            (b)   For residential development, the proposed increase in the
number of units or lots is not more than fifty (50) percent of the existing
number of units or lots.
         (3)   A pre-application conference is optional prior to submission of
any other application under this Ordinance.
      (B)   Initiation of Pre-Application Conference
         Any potential applicant may request a pre-application conference, in
the manner prescribed in other Town manuals or documents, with the Planning
Director. Prior to the pre-application conference, the applicant shall provide
to the Director a description of the character, location, and magnitude of the
proposed development and any other supporting documents such as maps, drawings,
models, and the type of development permit sought.
      (C)   Pre-Application Conference Content
         The Director shall schedule a pre-application conference after receipt
of a request. At the conference, the applicant, the Planning Director, and any
other persons the Director deems appropriate to attend shall discuss the
proposed development. Rezoning requests to planned development districts shall
be reviewed by the Development Review Committee. Based upon the information
provided by the applicant and the provisions of this Ordinance, the parties
should discuss in general the proposed development and the applicable
requirements and standards of this Ordinance.
   3.1.6   Notice Requirements
      (A)   Content of Notices
         All notices required under this Ordinance shall comply with notice
requirements set forth in the North Carolina General Statutes. Generally, all
published and written notices of legislative public hearings or quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearings should, unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance: (1)
identify the date, time, and place of the hearing, (2) if applicable, describe
the property involved in the application by street address or by Property
Identification Number (PIN) and nearest cross street; (3) describe the nature
of the proposed action and in the case of zoning map amendments, that the
proposed change may be made to the entire area described or any part or parts
of each area to the classification designated or to any more restrictive
classification; (4) indicate in the case of legislative public hearings that
interested parties may appear at the hearing and speak on the matter, and in
the case of quasi-judicial evidentiary hearings, that witnesses under oath may
present competent, material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive;
and (5) indicate where additional information on the matter may be obtained.
      (B)   Published Notice
         When the provisions of this Ordinance or law require that notice be
published, the Planning Director shall cause a notice to be published on the
Town's website pursuant to the procedures of Section 2-2 of the Town of Cary
Code of Ordinances. The notice shall be published once a week for two (2)
successive calendar weeks, and shall be published for the first time at least
ten (10) days and not more than twenty-five (25) days before the scheduled
hearing date. In computing such period, the day of publication shall not be
counted, but the day of the hearing shall be counted.
      (C)   Written (Mailed) Notice
         (1)   Application or Procedure for Not Requiring a Quasi-Judicial
Hearing
            When the provisions of this Ordinance or law require that written
or mailed notice be provided for any application or procedure that does not
require a quasi-judicial hearing, the Planning Director shall cause to be
prepared a list of all owners of the subject property, all abutting properties,
and all properties located within one hundred (100) feet of the subject
property and their current addresses, compiled from the current tax abstracts
of the applicable county. The Director shall deliver a notice of the hearing to
those property owners by first class mail, with such notices being deposited in
the mail at least ten (10) but not more than twenty-five (25) days prior to the
scheduled date of the hearing. In computing such period, the day of mailing
shall not be counted, but the day of the hearing shall be counted. The Town
staff person who mails such notices shall keep a record of the notices mailed,
and the date of mailing.
         (2)   Application or Procedure Requiring a Quasi-Judicial Evidentiary
Hearing
            When the provisions of this Ordinance or law require that written
or mailed notice be provided for any application or procedure that requires a
quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing, notice of such hearing shall be mailed to
the person or entity whose appeal, application, or request is the subject of
the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the subject of the hearing if
the owner did not initiate the hearing; and to the owners of all parcels or
land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing. In the
absence of evidence to the contrary, the Town may rely on the county tax
listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed notice. The Director
shall deliver a notice of the hearing to those property owners by first class
mail, with such notices being deposited in the mail at least ten (10) but not
more than twenty-five (25) days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing. In
computing such period, the day of mailing shall not be counted, but the day of
the hearing shall be counted. The Town staff person who mails such notices
shall keep a record of the notices mailed, and the date of mailing.
            For the purpose of this Section
3.1.6(C), properties are "abutting" even if separated by a street, railroad, or
other transportation corridor.
      (D)   Posted Notice
         When the provisions of this Ordinance or law require that notice be
posted, the Planning Director shall cause a notice to be posted on the
property. Such notice should be posted at least ten (10) but not more than
twenty-five (25) days prior to the scheduled date of the hearing. In computing
such period, the day of posting shall not be counted, but the day of the
hearing shall be counted. If no part of the subject property is visible from
the public right-of-way, the notice shall be posted along the nearest street in
the public right-of-way. Posted notices shall provide a phone number for
interested parties to utilize in order to obtain information regarding the
proposed application. When multiple parcels are included within a proposed
zoning map amendment, a posting on each individual parcel is not required, but
sufficient notices shall be posted to provide reasonable notice to interested
persons.
      (E)   Constructive Notice
         All notices not required by the North Carolina General Statutes are
for the convenience of the public and any defective notice shall not invalidate
the proceeding.
      (F)   Type of Notice
         The following table summarizes the type of hearing and notice
requirements for all procedures in this chapter:
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_3.1-1
TABLE 3.1-1: HEARING TYPE AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
Type of
Application or LDO Section Hearing Type Notice Required
Procedure
                                        Published See  Mailed See  Posted
                                        3.1.6(B)       3.1.6(C)    3.1.6(D)
TABLE 3.1-1: HEARING TYPE AND NOTICE REQUIREMENTS
Type of
Application or     LDO Section Hearing Type Notice Required
Procedure
                                            Published See  Mailed See  Posted
                                            3.1.6(B)       3.1.6(C)    3.1.6(D)
Owner-Initiated
Annexation         3.1.10      L            Yes            N/A         N/A
Petition
Cosmetic
Amendments to the  3.2         N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Comprehensive Plan
Initial Adoption
of or Substantive
Text or Map        3.2         L            Yes            N/A         N/A
Amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan
Amendments to the  3.3         L            Yes            N/A         N/A
text of the LDO
Zoning Map         3.4         L            Yes            Yes         Yes
Amendments
Repair of Zoning   3.4         L*           Yes            N/A         N/A
Map Errors
Accessory Use      3.5         N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Permit
Permitted Uses     3.6         N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Temporary Uses     3.7         N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Special Uses       3.8         E            No             Yes         Yes
Development Plans
Reviewed by        3.9.2(G)    N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Planning Director
Development Plans
Reviewed by Town
Council or Zoning  3.9.2(H)    E            No             Yes         Yes
Board of
Adjustment
Development in     3.12        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Flood Hazard Area
Grading Permits    3.13        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Building Permits   3.14        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Certificates of    3.15        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Occupancy
Sign Permits       3.16        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Vested Rights      3.17        L            Yes            Yes         Yes
Certificate
Minor
Modifications      3.19        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Reviewed by
Planning Director
Minor
Modifications
Reviewed by Zoning 3.19        E            No             Yes         Yes
Board of
Adjustment
Variances          3.20        E            No             Yes         Yes
Appeals of
Administrative     3.21        E            No             Yes         Yes
Decisions
Tree Clearing      3.22        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Certificate
Adequate Public
Facilities for     3.23                     N/A            N/A         N/A
Roads
Reimbursement      3.24.1      N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Agreements
Development        3.24.2      L            Yes            Yes         Yes
Agreements
Reasonable         3.25        E            No             Yes         Yes
Accommodation
Zoning Compliance  3.26        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Permit
Designation of     3.27        L            Yes            Yes         No
Historic District
Designation of     3.27        L            Yes            Yes         Yes
Historic Landmark
Certificate of
Appropriateness -  3.27        N/A          N/A            N/A         N/A
Minor Works
Certificate of
Appropriateness -  3.27        E            Yes            Yes         Yes
Major Works
Certificate of
Appropriateness -
Demolition of      3.27        E            Yes            Yes         Yes
Historic
Structures
Hearing Types
   A = Administrative
   L = Legislative
   L* = Legislative, if hearing required by Town Council (see applicable LDO
section)
   E = Evidentiary
 
      (G)   [Reserved]
      (H)   Expanded Published Notice Authorized
         If a zoning map amendment proposes to change the zoning designation of
more than fifty (50) properties, owned by at least fifty (50) different
property owners, expanded published notice may be given in lieu of written
(mailed) notice as provided in G.S. 160D-602(b).
   3.1.7   Hearing Procedures
      The procedures and requirements set forth in this section shall apply to
all hearings required by this Ordinance, both legislative public hearings and
quasi-judicial evidentiary hearings at which evidence is submitted and
testimony given under oath, unless a contrary intent is indicated.
      (A)   When the Town has determined that an application is complete and
that a hearing is required by this Ordinance, the Director shall schedule a
date, time, and place for the required hearing, and shall ensure that all
notices are provided pursuant to Section 3.1.6 above.
      (B)   If any resident or property owner submits a written statement
regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to a zoning regulation,
including a text or map amendment, to the Town Clerk at least two business days
prior to the proposed vote on such change, the Clerk shall deliver such written
statement to the Town Council. If the proposed change is the subject of a
quasi-judicial proceeding, the Clerk shall provide only the names and addresses
of the individuals providing written comment, and the provision of such names
and addresses to the decision-making body shall not disqualify any member of
the body from voting.
      (C)   Any person may appear and speak at a legislative public hearing.
Legislative public hearing comments should be directed toward the substance of
the proposed action. In quasi-judicial evidentiary hearings, the applicant,
Town staff, and any person who would have standing to appeal the decision under
G.S. 160D-1402(c) may participate as a party. Other witnesses may present
competent, material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive.
      (D)   Each person who appears at a hearing shall identify himself or
herself and his or her address and, if appearing on behalf of an organization,
shall state the name and mailing address of the organization, and shall observe
any rules related to the conduct of the hearing adopted by Council or the
appropriate board.
      (E)   All testimony and evidence given in a quasi-judicial evidentiary
hearing in front of the Zoning Board of Adjustment, the Historic Preservation
Commission, or the Town Council shall be given under oath or by affirmation to
the body conducting the hearing.
      (F)   In a quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing, any party participating in
the hearing or their legal representative may, upon receiving proper
recognition from the chairperson of the body conducting the hearing, question
or cross-examine other persons appearing as witnesses who present adverse
evidence or testimony.
      (G)   In a quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing, the chairperson of the
body conducting the hearing may exclude any testimony, evidence, or questioning
that the chairperson finds to be incompetent, irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly
repetitious.
      (H)   In a quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing, at any time upon
reasonable request, any person may examine the application and materials
submitted in support of or in opposition to an application. The Town shall
ensure that copies of such materials are made available.
   3.1.8   Conditions of Approval
   Some procedures set forth in this chapter authorize the decision-making body
to impose such conditions upon the premises benefited by the approval as may be
necessary to reduce or minimize any potential adverse impact upon other
property in the area, or to carry out the general purpose and intent of the
Comprehensive Plan and this Ordinance. In such cases, any conditions attached
to approvals shall be directly related to the impacts of the proposed use or
development and shall be reasonable and appropriate. In no case shall a
condition of approval be less restrictive than the requirements of this
Ordinance.
   3.1.9   Simultaneous Processing of Development Applications
      Where possible without creating an undue administrative burden on the
Town's decision-making bodies and staff, this Ordinance intends to accommodate
the simultaneous processing of applications for different permits and approvals
that may be required for the same development project in order to expedite the
overall review process. Review and decision-making bodies considering
applications submitted simultaneously shall render separate recommendations and
decisions on each application based on the specific standards applicable to
each approval.
      (A)   Examples of concurrent filing and processing of applications
include, but are not limited to:
         (1)   A development plan along with a special use;
         (2)   A development plan and a proposed amendment to a planned
development master plan; and
         (3)   A variance along with a special use or development plan.
      (B)   No rezoning application shall be accepted or processed while an
application for any of the permits or approvals listed in this chapter is
pending for the same property, and vice versa. This general rule has the
following exceptions:
         (1)   A rezoning application may be submitted along with an owner-
initiated annexation petition (see Section
3.1.10 below).
         (2)   A rezoning application may be submitted along with a development
plan provided that the plan complies with the zoning already in place at the
time the plan is submitted.
         (3)   A rezoning application to a conditional use district may be
submitted along with a development plan even if the plan does not conform to
current zoning, provided the development plan will be a condition of the
conditional use zoning.
         (4)   A rezoning application to a flexible use district may be
submitted along with a development plan.
      (C)   Some forms of approval depend on the applicant having previously
received another form of approval, or require the applicant to take particular
action within some time period following the approval in order to avoid having
the approval lapse. Therefore, even though this Ordinance intends to
accommodate simultaneous processing, applicants should note that each of the
permits and approvals set forth in this chapter has its own timing and review
sequence.
   3.1.10   Owner-Initiated Annexation Petitions
      (A)   Where the owner or developer of a property wishes the Town to annex
the property into the Town's corporate boundaries as well as to approve
proposed development on the property, then an owner-initiated annexation
petition must be processed and considered by the Town Council. The petition
shall be accompanied either by a rezoning application consistent with Sections
3.4 and
4.1.3 of this Ordinance or a development plan for the property.
         (1)   All owner-initiated annexation petitions shall be submitted and
reviewed in accordance with the Town's policy statements on owner-initiated
annexation petitions and annexation policy, as may be amended from time to time
by the Town Council. The Town Council has discretion as to whether it annexes
the property. The owner-initiated annexation petition shall include all the
property that is subject to the rezoning or development plan.
         (2)   For properties located within the Town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, if a rezoning application is submitted with the annexation
petition, the rezoning and annexation shall be processed and approved
simultaneously. For properties located outside the Town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction, the annexation petition must be approved prior to the rezoning
application.
         (3)   If a development plan is submitted with the annexation petition,
the decision-making body responsible for approving the development plan may not
approve the plan until the annexation has been approved.
      (B)   All proposals to connect to the Town's water and/or sanitary sewer
system shall be required to submit a petition for annexation into the Town's
corporate boundaries at the time an application for rezoning or development
plan approval is filed with the Town.
      (C)   Any development plan seeking to create a use that is considered to
be urban development, and is inside the Town's extraterritorial jurisdiction,
shall be required to submit an annexation petition regardless of whether or not
connection to Town's water and/or sanitary sewer system is necessary.
   3.1.11   Processing Cycles
   The Planning Director shall issue timetables for reviewing each type of
development application or procedure under this chapter. Processing timetables
will be advisory, and failure to meet processing goals will not result in
deemed approvals. Failure by an applicant to meet processing goals may result
in a delayed review process. Timetables may be revised from time to time and
may include:
      (A)   Dates of regular meetings of review bodies and decision-makers;
      (B)   Deadlines for receipt of a complete application for consideration
of such application at a particular meeting; and
      (C)   Schedule and routing of staff and agency reviews.
   3.1.12   Inaction by Review and Decision-Making Bodies
   When a review or decision-making body fails to take action on an application
within the time required (which varies by type of application), such inaction
shall be deemed a denial of the application, unless the decision-making body
agrees to an extension of the time frame.
   3.1.13   Lapse of Approval
   The lapse of approval time frames established by the procedures of this
chapter may be extended only when all of the following conditions exist:
      (A)   The provisions of this chapter must expressly allow the extension;
      (B)   An extension request must be filed prior to the applicable lapse-
of-approval deadline;
      (C)   The extension request must be in writing and include justification;
and
      (D)   Unless otherwise noted, authority to grant extensions of time shall
rest with the decision-making body that granted the original approval (the one
being extended).
   3.1.14   Common Review and Approval Procedures
      Development application review shall be discontinued, and development
permits shall expire, pursuant to G.S. 143-755 and G.S. 160D-108. For purposes
of this section, “development permit” has the meaning set out in G.S. 143-755.
   3.1.15   Development Approval
   A development approval shall be in writing and may be provided in print or
electronic form; if electronic form is used, then it must be protected from
further editing. Unless provided otherwise by law, all rights, privileges,
benefits, burdens, and obligations created by development approvals made
pursuant to this chapter attach to and run with the land.
   3.1.16   Revocation of Development Approval
   If any development approval is revoked pursuant to this Ordinance, the
review and approval of the revocation shall follow the same development review
and approval process required for issuance of the development approval,
including any required notice or hearing. The revocation of a development
approval may be appealed pursuant to G.S. 160D-405 and section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06;
Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-06,
8-13-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord.
No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04,
9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-02, 6-26-14; Ord. No.
2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-
24-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No.
2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.2   AMENDMENTS TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   3.2.1   Cosmetic Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan
   The Director of any Town department may make cosmetic amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan at any time. The Director may submit a proposed cosmetic
amendment to the Town Council for their approval if the Director desires advice
and consent from the Council. Cosmetic changes submitted to the Town Council
for review do not require a public hearing, public notification, or action by
the Planning and Zoning Board.
   3.2.2   Regular Review of the Comprehensive Plan
   The Planning Director shall initiate a regular review of the Comprehensive
Plan, assisted as necessary by the directors of other Town departments and
advisory boards. Such Review shall include an overall assessment of the
adequacy and effectiveness of the existing Plan, including identification of
new issues not adequately addressed by the Plan, issues which require further
study and investigation, suggested improvements, and specific revisions to Plan
maps and policies requested by citizens. As a result of a review, the Planning
Director may pursue one or more of the following major planning processes:
   (1)   Preparation of a new comprehensive plan;
   (2)   An update to the existing plan such that a new or expanded vision is
introduced.
   The major planning processes above shall include opportunities for citizen
engagement in plan preparation. Any changes proposed to the Comprehensive Plan
as a result of these processes shall follow the review and adoption process for
substantive amendments set forth in Section
3.2.4.
   3.2.3   Initiation of the Comprehensive Plan Amendment
   The Town Council may at any time direct the Planning Director to conduct a
review and assessment of the Comprehensive Plan, or evaluate a substantive
amendment proposal for consideration in accordance with the provisions of
Section
3.2.4. Additionally, the Planning Director may at any time initiate a
substantive amendment proposal for consideration in accordance with the
provisions of Section
3.2.4, and where a proposed rezoning appears to be inconsistent with the
Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Director or the applicant may initiate a
substantive plan amendment. In accordance with the Chatham-Cary Joint Plan
resolution, a citizen may initiate an amendment to the Chatham-Cary Joint Land
Use Plan by filing an application with the Planning Department.
   3.2.4   Substantive Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan
      (A)   Procedure
         (1)   Concurrent Review
            A plan amendment and a zoning map amendment may be considered
concurrently; if considered concurrently, only one application and application
fee shall be required and the procedure shall follow the process for rezonings
in accordance with Section
3.4.
         (2)   Public Hearings and Public Notice
            A public hearing shall be held before the Town Council on each
proposed substantive amendment to the comprehensive plan. Notice of the hearing
shall be provided, and such hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the
general provisions of Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7.
         (3)   Staff Report to Town Council
            The Planning Director, and other staff as appropriate, shall review
each proposed substantive amendment in light of the standards of review set
forth in paragraph (B).
            The Director shall provide a report to the Town Council at the
public hearing. This report shall include a discussion of all plans and
policies that have been adopted by the Town and are relevant to the proposed
amendment.
         (4)   Planning and Zoning Board Recommendation
            The Planning and Zoning Board shall review the proposed amendment
and make a recommendation to the Town Council, based on the standards of review
set forth in paragraph (B). If no recommendation is made within ninety (90)
days of the first meeting at which the proposed amendment is presented to them
for review, then the Town Council may act on the proposed amendment without a
recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Board.
         (5)   Town Council Action
            (a)   After reviewing the reports and recommendations of the
Planning Director and Planning and Zoning Board if applicable, the Town Council
may call for a second public hearing or take action based on the standards of
review set forth in paragraph (B). Such action may include the following:
               1.   Approve the amendment by motion, either as submitted or
with modifications suggested by staff or by the Council or Planning and Zoning
Board;
               2.   Reject the proposed amendment; or
               3.   Refer the proposed amendment back to the Planning and
Zoning Board for further consideration.
            (b)   Failure of the Town Council to take any action within ninety
(90) days of the delivery of the Planning and Zoning Board's recommendation at
a Council meeting shall be deemed a denial of the amendment request.
            Where a proposed rezoning appears to be inconsistent with the
Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Director or the applicant may initiate a
substantive plan amendment as provided in Section
3.2. A plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered concurrently.
         (6)   Automatic Amendment of the Future Land Use Plan Map
            In accordance with G.S. 160D-605, if Town Council approves a
rezoning that is deemed inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan, the rezoning
shall have the effect of also amending the Future Growth Framework Map in the
Comprehensive Plan, and no additional request or application for a plan
amendment shall be required. If a plan amendment was initiated as described in
Section 3.4.1(C) and ran concurrently with the rezoning, the Future Growth
Framework Map shall be amended in accordance with the plan amendment. If a plan
amendment was not initiated as described in Section
3.4.1(C), staff shall amend the Future Growth Framework Map as appropriate.
      (B)   Standards of Review
         Proposals to amend the Comprehensive Plan shall be evaluated based
upon whether the amendment is necessary in order to address conditions
including, but not limited to, the following:
         (1)   A change in projections or assumptions from those on which the
Comprehensive Plan is based;
         (2)   Identification of new issues, needs, or opportunities that are
not adequately addressed in the Comprehensive Plan;
         (3)   A change in the visions, values, policies, or objectives on
which the plan is based, or standards governing the physical development of the
Town or any other geographic areas addressed by the Comprehensive Plan; or
         (4)   Identification of errors or omissions in the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07;
Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2017-
LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-02, 8-9-2018; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.3   AMENDMENTS TO THE TEXT OF THE LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
   3.3.1   Purpose and Scope
   The Town Council may amend the text of this Ordinance in accordance with the
procedures set forth in this section. The purpose is not to relieve particular
hardships, nor to confer special privileges or rights on any person, but only
to make adjustments to Ordinance text that are necessary in light of changed
conditions or changes in public policy, or that are necessary to advance the
general welfare of the Town.
   3.3.2   Procedure
      (A)   Initiation of Amendments and Filing of Applications
         An amendment to the text of this Ordinance may be initiated by any
review or decision-making body. Any owner of a legal or equitable interest in
land located in the Town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction, or any resident
of the Town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction may submit a request for an
LDO text amendment to the Planning Director, who may then choose to forward the
request on to the Town Council for its consideration.
      (B)   Public Hearing; Public Notice
         The Town Council shall hold at least one (1) public hearing on each
LDO text amendment application. Notice of the public hearing shall be provided
and the public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7.
      (C)   Planning Director Review, Report, and Recommendation
         The Planning Director shall review each LDO text amendment application
based on the approval criteria of Section
3.3.3, and shall distribute the application to other reviewers as deemed
necessary. Based on the results of those reviews, the Director shall provide a
report to the Town Council at the public hearing on the proposed amendment.
This report shall include a discussion of all plans and policies that have been
adopted by the Town and are relevant to the proposed amendment, and a
recommendation regarding whether to approve or deny the proposed amendment.
      (D)   Review by Planning and Zoning Board
         After the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Board shall review
the proposed amendment and submit a written recommendation to the Town Council
that addresses whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan and any other officially adopted applicable plans, and
addresses other matters deemed appropriate by one or more Board members. The
Planning and Zoning Board shall determine their recommendation within ninety
(90) days of the first meeting at which the proposed amendment is presented to
them for review. The Planning and Zoning Board may request an extension of time
from the Town Council. If no recommendation is determined and no extension is
granted within ninety (90) days, the Town Council may act on the proposed
amendment without a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Board.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7679.jpg]
Amendments to the LDO Text
      (E)   Town Council Action
         After reviewing the reports and recommendations of the Planning
Director and the Planning and Zoning Board, the Town Council may take action,
based on the approval criteria of Section
3.3.3. Such action may include the following:
         (1)   Adopt the proposed amendment by ordinance;
         (2)   Adopt the proposed amendment with modifications by ordinance;
         (3)   Reject the proposed amendment;
         (4)   Refer the proposed amendment back to the Planning and Zoning
Board.
         Pursuant to G.S. 160D-605, when approving or rejecting an LDO text
amendment, Town Council shall approve a brief statement describing whether its
action is consistent or inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
   3.3.3   Approval Criteria For Text Amendments
   In reviewing applications to amend the text of this Ordinance, Council
should consider the following criteria:
      (A)   Whether the proposed amendment corrects an ambiguity or error or
meets the challenge of some changing condition, trend, or fact;
      (B)   Whether the proposed amendment is consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan and the stated purposes of Section
1.3 of this Ordinance;
      (C)   Whether the proposed amendment will protect the health, safety,
morals, or general welfare of the public, and
      (D)   Whether the proposed amendment will result in significant adverse
impacts on the natural environment, including air, water, noise, stormwater
management, wildlife, and vegetation.
   3.3.4   Effect of Decision on Successive Applications
      (A)   Effect of Denial
         No new application for the same or substantially the same amendment
shall be accepted within one (1) year of the date of denial of a LDO text
amendment application. The waiting period required by this section may be
waived in an individual case, for good cause shown, by the affirmative vote of
three-fourths (3/4) of the members of the Town Council.
      (B)   Effect of Approval
         No request to modify an approved LDO text amendment shall be
considered by the Town Council within one (1) year of the date of approval,
except by the initiation of the Town.
(Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-
02, 8-9-2018; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.4   REZONINGS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60719.jpg]New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 3.4 has been added by Ord. 2023-LDO-03, approved 6/
22/2023, effective 6/22/2023.
   3.4.1   Rezonings Generally
      (A)   Purpose and Scope
         The Town Council may rezone property (i.e., amend the classifications
of property appearing on the Zoning Map). The purpose is not to relieve
particular hardships, nor to confer special privileges or rights on any person,
but only to make adjustments to the Zoning Map that are necessary in light of
changed conditions or changes in public policy, or that are necessary to
advance the general welfare of the Town.
      (B)   Conditional Use and Flexible Use District Rezonings Distinguished
         (1)   Applications for the rezoning of property to a conditional use
district are governed by the procedures set forth both in this Section
3.4.1 and also in Section
3.4.2. For purposes of this Ordinance, conditional use district zoning means
“conditional zoning” as defined by G.S. 160D-102(7), and conditional use
district means “conditional district” as permitted by G.S. 160D-703.
         (2)   An application for rezoning to a general use district shall not
be converted into an application for rezoning to a conditional use district at
any point in the application review process, nor shall an application for
rezoning to a conditional use district be converted into an application for
rezoning to a general use district. If such a conversion is desired, the
applicant must submit a new application for rezoning to the other type of
district in accordance with the requirements of this Section
3.4.
         (3)   Applications for the rezoning of property to the MXD Flexible
Use District are governed by the procedures set forth in Section
3.4.5.
      (C)   Relationship to the Comprehensive Plan
         Where a proposed rezoning appears to be inconsistent with the
Comprehensive Plan, the Planning Director or the applicant may initiate a
substantive plan amendment as provided in Section
3.2. A plan amendment and a zoning amendment may be considered concurrently.
      (D)   Procedure
         (1)   Initiation of Amendments and Filing of Applications
            A rezoning may be initiated by any review or decision-making body;
by application from any owner (or owner's agent) of land for which the rezoning
is requested; or by any owner or resident of land within five hundred (500)
feet of the land for which the rezoning is requested, but only as long as the
rezoning is not a “down-zoning” as defined in G.S. 160D-601. When the owner of
land is not an individual, then the rezoning application shall include a
disclosure statement that indicates the type of entity involved, and the name
and address of each person who holds ten (10) percent or more of the business
entity. When the owner of land is publicly-owned business entity, then the
rezoning application shall include a disclosure statement that indicates the
name and address of each person who holds twenty-five (25) percent or more of
the business entity. An application requesting the rezoning shall be filed with
the Planning Department.
         (2)   Pre-Application Conference
            Before filing an application, a private-party applicant may request
a pre-application conference with the Planning Director. See Section
3.1.5.
         (3)   Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA)
            A Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) or Traffic Analysis Report (TAR) is
required if the proposed new zoning district could result in a use or mix of
uses that can be expected to generate one hundred (100) or more total peak hour
trips. Total peak hour trips represent gross trips expected to be generated by
the proposed new zoning district prior to applying any reduction for internal
trips.
            (a)   Preparing the TIA
               The Town shall prepare or have prepared (using Town staff or a
retained consultant) the written TIA.
            (b)   Study Area Boundaries
               The extent of the study area for the TIA depends upon the
location and size of the rezoning and the prevailing conditions of the
surrounding area. The study area is defined in the following table. Controlled
access roadways are not included in the study area or analysis; the controlled
access ramp intersections with non-controlled access roadways are subject to
analysis. The distances described below are to be measured from the property
boundaries and include those intersections within the identified area.
 
TABLE 3.23-1: STUDY AREA BOUNDARIES
             Trip Generation                   Study Area
                                               One-half (1/2) mile plus any
                                               intersection on which at least
Base Zone    One hundred (100) - One hundred   seven (7) percent of any traffic
             fifty (150) peak hour trips       movement approach volume is
                                               generated by the proposed
                                               project.
                                               One (1) mile plus any
                                               intersection on which at least
Base Zone    More than One hundred fifty (150) seven (7) percent of any traffic
             peak hour trips                   movement approach volume is
                                               generated by the proposed
                                               project.
                                               One-quarter (1/4) mile plus any
             More than one hundred (100) peak  intersections on which at least
Central Zone hour trips within the Central     seven (7) percent of any traffic
             Transportation Zone               movement approach volume are
                                               generated by or as a result of
                                               the proposed project.
 
            (c)   Trip Generation Standards
               Trip generation data for each project shall be based upon the
Institute of Traffic Engineers' Trip Generation Manual or, at the discretion of
the Town, other sources of trip generation data (e.g., local data) if this
source data is deemed more representative of the proposed development use. The
following other standards also apply to projects:
               1.   Defining Peak Hour Trips
                  Peak hour trips are those occurring on peak travel demand
days on the adjacent roadway (e.g., daily trips on a Sunday may not be
applicable). It is not the intent of this section to require a TIA for a use
that generates trips that meet or exceed the threshold but do not occur during
the adjacent roadway system's peak hour. For example, facilities designed for
sporting events, concerts or other similar uses may not require a traffic
analysis because the events occur during a non-peak hour or non-peak day. If a
traffic study is required for a use, then the analysis shall be based upon the
normal trip generation for the proposed use and not that associated with
special event(s).
               2.   Credit for Mixed Use, Pass-By Trips
                  The determination of the number of trips generated shall also
take into account pass-by trips, internal trip capture for integrated mixed use
projects (e.g., roadway and/or pedestrian connectivity) and any proposed
transportation demand management system, provided that adequate guarantees can
be provided to the Town to ensure that such demand management system will
function as claimed for the life of the project. In addition, if the proposed
development is designed and integrated with an adjacent mixed use project
(e.g., roadways), then a credit for trips may be permitted.
               3.   Estimated Trips for Rezonings/PDDs
                  In evaluating the impact of a proposed rezoning or planned
development where the specific uses or exact number of dwelling units have not
been specified, estimates shall be based upon the highest level of density or
intensity of use that would be authorized by the requested approvals. However,
if the highest level of intensity of use is a use that generates trips that
meet or exceed the threshold but do not occur during the adjacent roadway
system's peak hour, such as athletic fields, outdoor amphitheaters, or other
similar uses, then the analysis shall be based upon the normal trip generation
for the proposed use and not that associated with special event(s).
            (d)   Submission Requirements
               At the time of the initial submission, the applicant is required
to submit the following information:
               1.   Traffic analysis base information, site location map, site
layout, if applicable;
               2.   Data on the existing/proposed land use;
               3.   Description of the project.
               4.   Additional information as may be requested by staff.
               5.   Study Fee
                  After preliminary review of the data submitted under item (d)
above, the Town shall prepare an estimate of consulting fees for the analysis
of traffic impact for the project. Upon receipt of payment of fees from the
applicant in the amount of ninety percent (90%) of the projected cost estimate,
the Town shall release the work to a consultant for analysis. After completion
of the analysis, the Town shall evaluate the actual costs incurred for the
study and will reimburse to the applicant any remaining balance of the fee
paid.
            (e)   Required Factors to Include in Study
               The TIA shall evaluate the projected impact of the proposed
rezoning on the public facilities in question at the time of projected build-
out, which will be assumed to be five (5) years from the date the rezoning
application was submitted. This analysis will take into account not only the
status of existing facilities and the impact of the proposed development, but
also the projected impact of the following on the capacity of those facilities:
               1.   Future capital improvements that will increase the capacity
of the facilities in question should be considered if construction of the
improvements has received all necessary governmental approvals and funding is
in place, or that such approvals and funding appear reasonably certain.
               2.   All residential dwelling lots (excluding those for multi-
family uses) that have received final plat approval but that do not contain a
completed dwelling.
               3.   All development plans that have been approved, so long as
such approvals have not expired.
               4.   For any developments for which the notice to proceed has
been granted for a traffic study, even if the traffic study is not complete at
the time of scoping the background traffic for a subsequent study to be
conducted. If there is no additional action with regards to the project within
six (6) months after the completion to the traffic study (such as a rezoning
application submitted or approved), the traffic from the completed study will
no longer be included in the background traffic for the subsequent study.
               5.   No traffic from a previously approved planned development
should be included as background traffic for the same planned development, if
no development plan approval has been granted.
               6.   Typical background traffic increases that are not directly
related to known previously approved development.
            (f)   Tracking of Required Factors
               The staff shall develop a system of keeping track of the factors
described in subsection (e) above.
            (g)   Level of Service
               The TIA shall measure and report the Level of Service (LOS) at
peak hours for each intersection within the required study area, with LOS as
defined by the most current edition of the Highway Capacity Manual. If the
projected LOS for any intersection in the central zone, as defined in Section
7.11.16 of the LDO, is LOS "F", the TIA shall list potential transportation
system improvements that would ensure there is no increase in average delay for
the intersection (measured in its entirety). If the projected LOS in the base
zone, as defined in Section
7.11.16 of the LDO, falls below LOS "D" based upon the standard ITE average
peak hour, the TIA shall list potential transportation system improvements that
would ensure there is no increase in average delay for the intersection
(measured in its entirety). However, no transportation system improvements
shall be listed for intersections for which the existing intersection
configuration already meets the requirements of the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan.
               All forms of transportation system improvements should be
considered at non-signalized intersections, including separate left and right
turn lanes, geometric modifications, alternative access management strategies,
and signalization. Signalization should not be considered the primary solution.
Installation of new signals at existing or new intersections should only be
considered when the intersection meets required warrants for a signal; the
signal does not cause an undesirable delay in the surrounding road system; and
other transportation improvements do not result in acceptable levels-of-
service.
            (h)   Expiration of TIA
               The TIA shall expire after five (5) years.
            (i)   No application for a rezoning shall be accepted by the Town
of Cary until the draft findings of the TIA have been received unless the
Development Review Committee agrees in advance that the draft findings may be
submitted within a week after the date of the rezoning application.
         (4)   Neighborhood Meeting
            (a)   Applicability
               This section
3.4.1(D)(4) shall apply to all rezoning applications filed and accepted as
complete.
            (b)   Procedure
               Neighborhood meetings for complete rezoning applications shall
be held at a date, time and location established and scheduled by staff. At the
neighborhood meeting, each applicant shall conduct a meeting with any attendee
interested in that proposed rezoning. The applicant shall record meeting
minutes and provide the Town a digital copy of the written meeting minutes. The
purpose of this neighborhood meeting is to ensure that nearby property owners
are aware of the request and have an opportunity to inform the applicant of
issues and concerns prior to the public hearing.
               A general orientation meeting shall be conducted by staff for
all applications at the beginning of each neighborhood meeting.
            (c)   Alternative Outreach for Certain Rezoning Cases
               An alternative means of conducting public outreach, such as one
(1) or more open houses, may be utilized in lieu of the neighborhood meeting
for widespread zoning changes initiated for the general purpose of implementing
the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan. Examples of such changes
include the establishment and application of new types of zoning districts or
widespread changes to the applicability of or location of existing zoning
districts or overlay districts. The Town shall provide outreach and input
opportunities as needed to ensure that citizens have an opportunity to ask
questions and understand the proposed rezoning prior to the public hearing.
Notification shall include posting on the Town’s web site, and, based on the
nature of the change and the number of parcels affected, either mailing of a
notice to individual property owners affected, or publication of a half (½)
page ad in a local newspaper.
               The standard neighborhood meeting shall be required for all
citizen-initiated rezoning requests and all town-initiated rezoning requests
for Town-owned property.
         (5)   Public Notice
            Published, written, and posted notice of public hearings shall be
provided in accordance with Section
3.1.6.
         (6)   Public Hearings
            At least one (1) public hearing shall be held before Town Council
in accordance with Section
3.1.7, provided, however, that only the first public hearing shall require
written (mailed) notice.
            The Planning Director shall review each proposed rezoning in light
of the approval criteria of paragraph (E) and distribute the application to the
Development Review Committee and, as deemed necessary, to other reviewers.
Based on the results of those reviews, the Director shall provide a report to
the Town Council at the initial public hearing on the proposed rezoning. This
report shall include a discussion of all plans and policies that have been
adopted by the Town and are relevant to the proposed amendment.
         (7)   Planning and Zoning Board Recommendation on Rezoning
            Following the initial public hearing before the Town Council, the
Planning and Zoning Board shall consider the proposed rezoning and shall submit
a written recommendation to the Town Council that addresses whether the
proposed amendment is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and other
officially adopted applicable plans and addresses other matters deemed
appropriate by one (1) or more Board members. The Planning and Zoning Board
shall determine their recommendation within ninety (90) days of the first
meeting at which the proposed rezoning is presented to them for review. The
Planning and Zoning Board may request an extension of time from the Town
Council. If no recommendation is determined and no extension is granted within
ninety (90) days, then the Town Council may act on the proposed rezoning
without a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Board.
         (8)   Town Council Action
            (a)   After reviewing the reports of the Planning Director and
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Board, the Town Council may call for
a second public hearing or take one of the following actions based on the
rezoning considerations of paragraph (E):
               1.   Approve the rezoning by ordinance;
               2.   Reject the proposed rezoning;
               3.   Refer the proposed rezoning back to the Planning and Zoning
Board for further consideration;
               4.   Table the proposed rezoning; or
               5.   Rezone the property by ordinance to any zoning district
that is classified higher than the district requested in the application for
rezoning, but only with the consent of the applicant. See Section
4.1.1(B) for an explanation of "higher" districts versus "lower" districts.
               Pursuant to G.S. 160D-605, when approving or rejecting a
rezoning, Town Council shall approve 1) a brief statement describing whether
its action is consistent or inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan, and 2) a
statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed rezoning. The statement
of reasonableness and the plan consistency statement may be approved as a
single statement. If Town Council approves a rezoning and finds the rezoning to
be inconsistent with the Comprehensive Plan, the rezoning shall have the effect
of also amending the Future Growth Framework Map in the Comprehensive Plan, and
no additional request or application for a plan amendment shall be required. If
a plan amendment was initiated as described in Section
3.4.1(C) and ran concurrently with the rezoning, the Future Growth Framework
Map shall be amended in accordance with the plan amendment.
            (b)   Failure of the Town Council to take one (1) of the actions
listed above within ninety (90) days of the delivery of the Planning and Zoning
Board's recommendation at a Council meeting shall be deemed a denial of the
rezoning request.
         (9)   Withdrawal of Application
            A rezoning application not initiated by a Town review or decision-
making body may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time prior to final Town
Council action on the application. If an applicant fails to pursue a rezoning
application for a period of six (6) months, the application shall be deemed
withdrawn.
      (E)   Rezoning Considerations
         Without limiting Council’s broad discretion, in reviewing proposed
rezonings, Council may, among other things, consider whether:
         (1)   The proposed rezoning corrects an error or meets the challenge
of some changing condition, trend, or fact;
         (2)   The proposed rezoning furthers the purposes and policies set
forth in this Ordinance, including those set forth in Section 1.3 of this
Ordinance; or
         (3)   The proposed zoning classification is suitable for the subject
property.
      (F)   [Reserved]
      (G)   Waiting Period for Subsequent Applications
         (1)   When a rezoning application has been approved or denied by the
Town Council, or has been withdrawn by the applicant after notice has been
given of the public hearing on the application, no rezoning application
covering the same property shall be accepted or considered within twelve (12)
months after the date of the approval, denial, or withdrawal. This restriction
shall apply regardless of whether the new application is for a different zoning
classification than the original application.
         (2)   The inclusion of an additional lot or lots in the new
application shall not be permitted when it is evident that the inclusion of the
new lot or lots is for the express purpose of avoiding these restrictions.
         (3)   The waiting period required by this section may be waived in an
individual case, for good cause shown, by the affirmative vote of three-fourths
(3/4) of the members of the Town Council.
      (H)   [Reserved]
      (I)   Repair of Zoning Map Errors
         Where errors are found on the Official Zoning Map, the repair of these
errors is not considered to be a rezoning as described in Section
3.4 of this Ordinance. As a result, Zoning Map errors may be corrected upon
adoption by the Town Council of a resolution noting and approving the
correction. Though not required, Council may, in its discretion, call for a
public hearing on the matter as part of its consideration. The matter shall not
be considered by the Planning and Zoning Board and action by the Council may be
taken following the hearing.
   3.4.2   Rezonings to Conditional Use Districts
      (A)   Purpose of Conditional Use Districts
         If the regulations and restrictions of a general use zoning district
are inadequate to ensure the compatibility of the proposed development with the
immediately surrounding neighborhood in accordance with the principles of the
Comprehensive Plan and this Ordinance, the property owner may apply for
rezoning to a conditional use district that bears the same designation as a
general use zoning district but is a conditional use zoning district subject to
additional conditions in which limited uses are permitted and that are
contained in the ordinance approving the conditional use district.
      (B)   Process Required
         A person petitioning for rezoning of a tract of land may elect to
request a conditional use district for that tract. The conditional use district
application must specify the intended use or usesand the proposed conditions
for the property specified in the petition. The intended use or uses must be
permitted in the corresponding general use district. The Town Council is to
approve or disapprove the application on the basis of the specific use or uses
and conditions proposed. Development in a conditional use district requires
approval of a single application similar to a general use district rezoning
application, which shall be reviewed by the Town Council through a legislative
process.
         (1)   Conditional Use Rezoning Process
            Rezoning to a conditional use district shall require submission and
approval of an application for a rezoning in accordance with the general
procedures set forth in Section
3.4.1, as modified by this Section
3.4.2. A rezoning to a conditional use district may be initiated only by an
application signed by all of the owners of the property or by an agent
authorized by all of the owners to file such application, which application
shall include the affidavit required by Section
3.4.2(C)(4) and (5). If the application is approved, the Town Council shall
adopt an ordinance authorizing the requested use with such reasonable
conditions as mutually approved by the applicant and Town Council and
determined to be desirable in promoting public health, safety and general
welfare.
      (C)   Conditions
         (1)   The conditional use rezoning application shall specify the use
or uses that are intended for the property or any use or uses that are
prohibited, as well as any additional conditions on the use of the property
that the applicant may propose be conditions of the rezoning. The applicant may
propose conditions regarding building design elements as defined in G.S. 160D-
702 and other development considerations. Conditions are limited to:
            (a)   Those that address conformance of the development and use of
the site to Town ordinances or officially adopted plans; or
            (b)   Those that address the impacts reasonably expected to be
generated by the development and use of the site.
         (2)   An applicant may include a concept plan as a zoning condition in
addition to written zoning conditions. A concept plan is a conceptual,
illustrative plan that may not be used to eliminate or reduce any LDO or other
requirement unless such elimination or reduction is designated as such and
specifically provided for in this Ordinance. A concept plan shall show the
overall site layout for the proposed development or a portion thereof
including, but not limited to, development features such as:
            (a)   Land uses;
            (b)   Maximum number of residential units or non-residential square
footage;
            (c)   Any building setbacks and/or buffers that exceed minimum
requirements of the LDO;
            (d)   Natural open space areas to remain undisturbed;
            (e)   Improved open space areas, including stormwater management
devices; and
            (f)   Vehicular and pedestrian access and circulation.
         (3)   No condition shall be less restrictive than the standards of the
parallel general use district or the standards of any overlay district that
applies to the property.
         (4)   No condition shall be made part of the application, or shall be
attached to approval of the conditional use district, which specifies the
ownership status, race, religion, or character of the occupants of housing
units, the minimum value of improvements, or any other exclusionary device;
which states that the use of the property will not be subject to regulations or
restrictions set forth in this Ordinance which would apply to the property in
any event, such as the regulations for an overlay district which covers the
property; or which sets a minimum square footage of any structures subject to
regulation under the North Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-Family
Dwellings.
         (5)   The applicant shall make no changes to proposed zoning
conditions within fifteen (15) business days of a meeting at which the rezoning
case is scheduled for consideration. Changes to proposed zoning conditions
received after publication of the notice of the initial public hearing must be
more restrictive than the conditions initially advertised. A revised affidavit
meeting the requirements of Section
3.4.2(C)(6) which includes the revised conditions must be received by the
Planning Department prior to the meeting at which the rezoning request is to be
presented.
         (6)   The conditional use rezoning application shall include an
affidavit listing all proposed zoning conditions and provisions and attaching
any proposed concept plan. A revised affidavit shall be submitted each time the
applicant proposes new zoning conditions or a new concept plan. The initial and
revised affidavit shall state that:
            (a)   All zoning conditions and provisions are freely offered as
proposed zoning laws, based solely on the property owner/applicant's
independent judgment; and
            (b)   The property owner/applicant is not relying upon any
statement by the Town staff or any member of the Town Council in connection
with the decision to offer any zoning conditions, provisions or concept plans;
and
            (c)   The property owner/applicant understands that other parties
that have standing in the rezoning proceeding are relying on the validity of
the zoning conditions, provisions and concept plans; and
            (d)   The property owner/applicant intends for all future owners of
the property to be bound by the zoning conditions, provisions and concept
plans, should the Town Council adopt them as part of the rezoning; and
            (e)   The property owner/applicant will take all appropriate
measures to ensure that future property owners are aware of the zoning
conditions, provisions and concept plans.
      (D)   Changes to Conditions of Approved Conditional Use District
         (1)   Written Zoning Conditions
            Any change to written conditions attached to an approved
conditional use rezoning shall be considered a change to the conditional use
district, and shall be processed as a new conditional use application in
accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section
3.4.2.
         (2)   Concept Plan
            Staff may only approve changes to approved concept plans if such
changes fall within the criteria allowed for administrative approval under
Section
3.19, Minor Modifications. Proposed changes that do not fall within the
criteria allowed for approval in Section
3.19 shall proceed in the same manner as the original rezoning.
         (3)   Eligibility for Zoning Amendments
            If multiple parcels of land are subject to a conditional use
district, the owners of individual parcels may apply for modification of the
conditions applicable to their property so long as the modification would not
result in other properties failing to meet the terms of the conditions. Any
modifications approved shall only be applicable to those properties whose
owners petition for the modification.
   3.4.3   Rezonings to Planned Development Districts
      (A)   Applicability and Scope
         A planned development district (PDD) is a type of conditional zoning.
No approval for construction of any on-site or off-site improvements in a PDD
shall be granted until a master plan for the planned development is approved in
accordance with the procedures and requirements of this section.
      (B)   Rezoning Procedures Apply
         Applications requesting a rezoning to a PDD classification shall be
submitted in accordance with the general rezoning procedures set forth in
Section
3.4.1, as modified by the specific procedures set forth in this Section
3.4.3.
      (C)   Coordination with Review of Development Plans
         An application for PDD master plan approval and any required
application for development plan approval (Section
3.9) may be filed simultaneously. The review and processing of these
applications shall be coordinated and consolidated as much as possible. The
Development Review Committee, the Planning and Zoning Board, and the Town
Council, however, shall render separate reports, recommendations, and decisions
on each application based on the specific standards applicable to each
approval.
      (D)   Procedure
         (1)   Pre-Application Conference
            Before filing an application for PDD master plan approval, the
applicant may request a pre-application conference with the Development Review
Committee. See Section
3.1.5. The applicant shall provide the Development Review Committee with the
following information at the pre-application conference:
            (a)   Size and location of the parcel proposed for development as a
planned development;
            (b)   Proposed gross density and/or the amount of non-residential
square footage for the proposed planned development and net density of
individual parcels within the PDD;
            (c)   A concept plan showing general land uses proposed for the
planned development including location, acreage, park, open space areas and
school sites, if applicable;
            (d)   Number of acres and location of land within the parcel
proposed for development as a planned development within a Watershed Protection
Overlay district; and
            (e)   A schematic description of utility and circulation
improvements for the planned development.
         (2)   Application Filing
            An application for a PDD rezoning approval shall be filed and
processed in accordance with the rezoning procedures set forth in Section
3.4.1. In addition, the application shall be accompanied by a master plan and
supporting plans and documents as specified by the Planning Department. The
application shall also include an affidavit, and a revised affidavit shall be
submitted each time the applicant proposes revisions to the master plan,
stating that:
            (a)   All zoning conditions and provisions are freely offered as
proposed zoning laws, based solely on the property owner/applicant's
independent judgment; and
            (b)   The property owner/applicant is not relying upon any
statement by the Town staff or any member of the Town Council in connection
with the decision to offer any zoning conditions or provisions; and
            (c)   The property owner/applicant understands that other parties
that have standing in the rezoning proceeding are relying on the validity of
the zoning conditions and provisions; and
            (d)   The property owner/applicant intends for all future owners of
the property to be bound by the zoning conditions and provisions should the
Town Council adopt them as part of the rezoning; and
            (e)   The property owner/applicant will take all appropriate
measures to ensure that future property owners are aware of the zoning
conditions and provisions.
         (3)   Review by Town
            The Development Review Committee, the Planning and Zoning Board,
and the Town Council shall review the application and the proposed master land
use_plan for compliance with the requirements of Section
3.4.1 and also this Section
3.4.3.
         (4)   Review by Other Bodies
            The Development Review Committee may transmit the proposed master
plan to the Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources Advisory Board, and/or
any other board or commission, including the Wake County Board of Education,
deemed appropriate by the Town Council for review and comment.
      (E)   Considerations
         In addition to the general approval considerations for rezonings set
forth in Section
3.4.1(E), and without limiting council’s broad discretion, council may, when
reviewing a proposed PDD rezoning request, consider whether the PDD designation
is necessary to address a unique situation or represents a substantial benefit
to the Town, compared to what could have been accomplished through strict
application of otherwise applicable zoning district standards.
      (F)   Effect of Approval
         (1)   The approval of a PDD application and a master plan shall not
become effective until the applicant has submitted to the Planning Department a
copy of the master plan incorporating all changes, if any, that were required
as conditions to Town Council approval, and such additional information as the
Town Council may have required as a condition of PDD or master plan approval.
         (2)   Upon receipt of all required submittals, the Planning Director
shall mark and sign the master plan as approved, and return a marked and signed
copy of the master plan to the applicant. A copy marked "ORIGINAL" shall be
retained for the records of the Planning Department.
         (3)   Actual development of the property comprising the approved PDD
shall be subject to all applicable state requirements, development plan
approvals, and other permits and approvals otherwise required by this
Ordinance. Such development shall comply with all requirements of this
Ordinance unless the approved PDD documents specifically state otherwise.
      (G)   Submission of Conditions
         Conditions proposed by the applicant in the master plan are limited to
those that address conformance of the development and use of the site to Town
ordinances or officially adopted plans, or those that address the impacts
reasonably expected to be generated by the development and use of the site. The
applicant may propose conditions regarding building design elements as defined
in G.S. 160D-702 and other development considerations. After the town has
published the initial notice of public hearing for the application, the
applicant shall make no changes to the conditions that are less restrictive
than those stated in the application, including, but not limited to, smaller
setbacks; more dwelling or rooming units; greater height; more access points;
new uses; and fewer improvements. However, more restrictive conditions or
additional conditions may be added to the application if such conditions are
received by the Planning Department in writing and signed by all owners of the
property at least fifteen (15) business days before the date scheduled for
consideration by the Town Council or the Planning and Zoning Board.
      (H)   Changes to Conditions of Approved Planned Development District
         (1)   Written Conditions
            Any change to written conditions in the master plan shall be
considered a change to the planned development district, and shall be processed
as a new application in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
Section
3.4.3.
         (2)   Master Plan
            Staff may only approve changes to approved master plans if such
changes fall within the criteria allowed for administrative approval under
Section
3.19, Minor Modifications. Proposed changes that do not fall within the
criteria allowed for approval in Section
3.19 shall proceed in the same manner as the original rezoning.
         (3)   Eligibility for Zoning Amendments
            If multiple parcels of land are subject to a planned development
district, the owners of individual parcels may apply for modification of the
conditions applicable to their property so long as the modification would not
result in other properties failing to meet the terms of the conditions. Any
modifications approved shall only be applicable to those properties whose
owners petition for the modification.
   3.4.4   Rezonings in the Town Center (TC) District and Walnut Street
Corridor Transition (CT) District
      Rezonings of sub-districts in the TC and CT districts are processed the
same as a general or conditional use district.
   3.4.5   Rezonings to Mixed Use District (MXD)
      (A)   Applicability
         An MXD district is a type of conditional zoning. The MXD district is
designed to be used in conjunction with the Mixed Use Overlay District (MUOD)
as follows:
         (1)   Property which is within a Mixed Use Overlay District and within
the Destination Center, Commercial Center Mixed Use, or Mixed Use Employment
Center development category in the Shape chapter of the Cary Community Plan may
be rezoned only to Mixed Use District consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
         (2)   Property which is within a Mixed Use Overlay District and within
the Commercial Center development category in the Shape chapter of the Cary
Community Plan may be rezoned to Mixed Use District or any other general use or
conditional use zoning district consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
         (3)   Property which is within a Mixed Use Overlay District and is not
within the Destination Center, Commercial Center Mixed Use, Mixed use
Employment Center or Commercial Center development category in the Shape
chapter of the Cary Community Plan may not be rezoned to Mixed Use District but
may be rezoned to any other district consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
         (4)   Property which is not within a Mixed Use Overlay District may
not be rezoned to the Mixed Use District but may be rezoned to any other
district consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (B)    Application
         (1)   Pre-Application Conference
            The applicant shall schedule and attend a Pre-Application
Conference (see Section
3.1.5) in accordance with the calendar maintained by the Planning Department.
         (2)   Application Materials
            Applications for rezoning to MXD shall be submitted in a form and
in such number as specified by the Planning Director and available from the
Planning Department. Applications shall include all of the following:
            (a)   Preliminary development plan or development plan, and table
of uses
               The applicant shall provide a preliminary development plan or,
at the applicant's option, a detailed development plan (both hereinafter
referred to as "preliminary development plan" or "PDP"). The preliminary
development plan shall illustrate the proposed type and mix of uses, density or
intensity of development, site design features, public spaces and the like
which shall become a requirement of the rezoning if approved. The preliminary
development plan shall only cover the area within the boundaries of the
property proposed to be rezoned and shall be in sufficient detail to determine
consistency with the Comprehensive Plan, LDO requirements, Community_Appearance
Manual and Site Design Standards. A detailed table of uses that specifies the
allowed uses, square footages of nonresidential development, and the numbers
and types of residential units shall be attached to and incorporated into the
preliminary development plan. Detailed development requirements, including but
not limited to, minimum lot size, lot width, building height, building
setbacks, landscape buffer types and widths shall be specified on the plan or
in a separate document which is attached to and incorporated into the
preliminary development plan. Results of a tree survey for champion trees shall
be shown on the plan, and an arborist report to verify size, species and health
of each champion tree shall be provided in a separate document. Drawings shall
be submitted in a form and in such number as specified by the Planning
Director.
            (b)   Supporting Materials
               The application shall also be accompanied by information as
specified by the Planning Director, including but not limited to:
               1.   a statement regarding compliance with the Comprehensive
Plan;
               2.   a statement analyzing the reasonableness of the proposed
rezoning as required by G.S. 160D-605;
               3.   a statement about how the rezoning meets the considerations
in Sec.
3.4.1(E) and
4.5.2(E); and
               4.   an affidavit. A revised affidavit shall be submitted each
time the applicant proposes new zoning conditions or a new PDP. The initial and
revised affidavit shall state that:
                  i.   all zoning conditions and provisions are freely offered
as proposed zoning laws, based solely on the property owner/applicant's
independent judgment; and
                  ii.   the property owner/applicant is not relying upon any
statement by the Town staff or any member of the Town Council in connection
with the decision to offer any zoning conditions or provisions; and
                  iii.   the property owner/applicant understands that other
parties that have standing in the rezoning proceeding are relying on the
validity of the zoning conditions and provisions; and
                  iv.   the property owner/applicant intends for all future
owners of the property to be bound by the zoning conditions and provisions
should the Town Council adopt them as part of the rezoning; and
                  v.   the property owner/applicant will take all appropriate
measures to ensure that future property owners are aware of the zoning
conditions and provisions.
      (C)   Review and Approval Process
         (1)   Neighborhood Meeting
            A neighborhood meeting shall be conducted in conformance with LDO
Section
3.4.1(D)(4).
         (2)   Initial Public Hearing
            (a)   Process
               The first public hearing on the proposed MXD rezoning shall be
conducted by the Town Council. A rezoning to MXD will not be scheduled for an
initial public hearing unless the application is found by planning staff to be
complete and ready for consideration. Such hearing shall be noticed as required
in Section
3.1.6 of this Ordinance, and notification should also be provided to all
persons on the mailing list submitted pursuant to Section
3.4.5(B)(3)(d). At the public hearing:
               1.   The applicant shall present the merits of the rezoning and
shall specifically address the considerations contained in Sections
3.4.1(E) and
4.5.2(E);
               2.   The staff shall provide a report which evaluates the
proposed rezoning, taking into consideration, among other factors, the
Comprehensive Plan and the Land Development Ordinance; and
               3.   The public may also provide comments on the considerations
contained in Sections
3.4.1(E) and
4.5.2(E).
            (b)   Action by Town Council
               Following the initial public hearing, the Town Council shall
refer the proposed rezoning to the Planning and Zoning Board for a
recommendation.
         (3)   Changes Made After the Public Hearing
            The applicant shall make no changes to proposed zoning conditions
within fifteen (15) business days of a meeting of the Planning and Zoning Board
at which the rezoning case is scheduled for consideration.
         (4)   Planning and Zoning Board Recommendation
            The Planning and Zoning Board shall consider the proposed rezoning
in accordance with Section
3.4.1(D)(7).
         (5)   Changes After Consideration by the Planning and Zoning Board
            After the Planning and Zoning Board has considered the application,
the applicant shall make no changes to the conditions that are less restrictive
than those stated in the application, including, but not limited to, smaller
setbacks; more dwelling or rooming units; greater height; more access points;
new uses; and fewer improvements. However, more restrictive conditions or
additional conditions may be added to the application if such conditions are
received by the Planning Department in writing and signed by all owners of the
property at least fifteen (15) business days before the date scheduled for
consideration by the Town Council.
         (6)   Town Council Action
            Town Council shall take action on the rezoning request in
accordance with Section
3.4.1.(D)(6) of the LDO.
      (D)   Effect of Approval
         Following rezoning to the MXD district, all subsequent development
plans submitted within the boundaries of the mixed use district shall be
consistent with the terms of the approved district and shall be reviewed and
approved pursuant to Section
3.9. Actual development of the property comprising the approved mixed use
district shall be subject to all applicable state requirements, development
plan approvals, and other permits and approvals otherwise required by this
Ordinance. Such development shall comply with all requirements of this
Ordinance unless the approved MXD District states otherwise.
      (E)   Changes to Approved MXD Districts
         Staff may only approve changes to approved MXD districts if such
changes fall within the criteria allowed for administrative approval under
Section
3.19, Minor Modifications. Proposed changes that do not fall within the
criteria allowed for approval in Section 3.19 shall proceed in the same manner
as the original rezoning.
      (F)   Eligibility for Zoning Amendments
         If multiple parcels of land are subject to a MXD district, the owners
of individual parcels may apply for modification of the conditions applicable
to their property so long as the modification would not result in other
properties failing to meet the terms of the conditions. Any modifications
approved shall only be applicable to those properties whose owners petition for
the modification.
      (G)   Waiting Period for Subsequent Applications
         The waiting period for subsequent rezoning applications on the same
property after action by the Town Council or withdrawal of the request by the
applicant shall be as provided in Section
3.4.1(G) of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 04-011, 9-9-04;
Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-
07; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-06, 8-13-09; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No.
2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 13-LDO-01, 2-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-
13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2014-
LDO-05, 12-11-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-
15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-004, 8-27-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No.
2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-02, 3-30-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-02, 12-
14-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-02, 8-9-2018; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No.
2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-
22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-04, 11-17-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23)
3.5   ACCESSORY USE PERMITS
   3.5.1   Purpose
   An accessory use permit is required to ensure that certain accessory uses,
which could have a negative effect on residential neighborhoods due to
congestion, noise, or other impacts, comply with all applicable zoning
standards in this Ordinance.
   3.5.2   Applicability
   An accessory use permit shall be required prior to commencement of the
activity for which the permit is required.
   3.5.3   Procedures
      (A)   An application for an accessory use permit shall be filed with the
Planning Department. Within fifteen (15) days after the application is
determined complete, the Planning Director shall review the application and
determine whether to approve, approve with modifications, or deny the
application based on compliance with the standards set forth in Section
5.3 of this Ordinance.
      (B)   If the Planning Director denies the application, the applicant
shall have thirty (30) days to submit a corrected application without paying a
separate application fee. If a corrected application is not resubmitted within
thirty (30) days, the application shall be considered withdrawn and a new
application fee shall be required for future re-submittals.
(Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14)
3.6   PERMITTED USES
   3.6.1   Those uses designated as "permitted uses" in
Chapters 4 and
5 of this Ordinance require no special treatment under this
Chapter 3 different from the provisions generally applying to the zoning
district in which the use is located and any use-specific regulations listed in
Chapter 5. However, depending on the nature and location of the use,
development plan approval (Section
3.9), approval for development in the Flood Hazard Area (Section
3.12), and/or a grading permit (Section
3.13) may be required before the permitted use may be established.
   3.6.2   No permitted use shall be established until the person proposing the
use applies for and receives all building permits and certificates of occupancy
required under Sections
3.14 and
3.15.
(Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.7   TEMPORARY USES
   3.7.1   Temporary Use Permit Required
   No use that is classified as a temporary use in the zoning district in which
it is to be located shall be placed or established on the property without
first receiving a temporary use permit. No temporary use permit is required for
events taking place on county-owned park property.
   3.7.2   Filing and Contents of Application
      (A)   An application for a temporary use permit may be filed only by the
owner of the property, or by an agent, lessee, or contract purchaser
specifically authorized by the owner to file such application.
      (B)   An application for a temporary use permit shall be filed with the
Planning Department. Where appropriate, each application shall be accompanied
by a sketch plan showing the boundaries of the property, the use of
adjacent properties, the location of the temporary use or structure on the
property, and other information sufficient to show that the temporary use or
structure complies with the standards set forth in Section
5.4 of this Ordinance.
   3.7.3   Filing Deadline
   All applications for temporary use permits shall be filed at least two (2)
weeks prior to the date the temporary use will commence, or at least four (4)
weeks prior to the date the temporary use will commence if public safety
support is requested from the Town. The Planning Director may waive this filing
deadline requirement in an individual case, for good cause shown.
   3.7.4   Approval Criteria
   The Planning Director shall issue a temporary use permit if the proposed
temporary use satisfies the requirements set forth in Section
5.4.
   3.7.5   Duration of Permit
   A temporary use permit shall be valid only for the time period stated on the
permit, unless otherwise authorized in this Ordinance.
   3.7.6   Temporary Structure Permit Required
   No tent, trailer, or other temporary structure governed by the State
Building Code shall be occupied or used in conjunction with a temporary use
until and unless the applicant has received a tent permit or a building permit
from the Inspections and Permits Department pursuant to the State Building
Code.
(Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22)
3.8   SPECIAL USES
   3.8.1   General Provisions
      (A)   Purpose and Applicability
         Special uses are generally compatible with other land uses permitted
in a zoning district yet, because of their unique characteristics or potential
impacts on the surrounding neighborhood and the Town as a whole, require
individual consideration of their location, design, configuration, and/or
operation at the particular location proposed. Such individual consideration
may require the imposition of individualized conditions in order to ensure that
the use is appropriate at a particular location. Any use designated in
Chapter 5 of this Ordinance as a "special use" shall not be established without
the approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance with the
procedures and requirements set forth in this section.
      (B)   Relationship to Development Plan Requirements
         (1)   Coordination with Review of Development Plans
            If a development plan is necessary for the proposed special use
pursuant to Section
3.9, then the review and approval of both the development plan and the special
use shall be coordinated. The two (2) applications shall be filed together and
review of each application shall proceed simultaneously. However, the Zoning
Board of Adjustment shall render separate decisions on each application,
recognizing that the applications are distinct and subject to different
standards for approval.
         (2)   Lapse of Special Use Approval
            Approvals of special uses shall be automatically conditioned on the
subsequent approval of a development plan required under Section
3.9. Accordingly, the approval of any special use shall lapse, and become null
and void, upon the expiration of the approved development plan.
      (C)   Special Uses in Nonconforming Structures or Lots
         If a proposed special use involves one (1) or more non-conforming
structures or lots, the application for special use approval shall be
accompanied by any applications necessary for enlargement, expansion,
alteration, or major repair of a nonconforming structure or lot in accordance
with
Chapter 10. This application shall be processed concurrently with the special
use application and in accordance with
Chapter 10 of this Ordinance. However, approval of the alteration of a
nonconforming structure and/or lot request shall be a prerequisite to approval
of the special use.
   3.8.2   Procedures
      (A)   Pre-Application Conference
         Before filing the application, an applicant for a special use shall
request a pre-application conference with the Planning Department (see Section
3.1.5).
      (B)   Filing of Application and Content Requirements
         (1)   An application for approval of a special use may be filed only
by the owner of the lot on which the use is to be located, an agent, lessee, or
contract purchaser specifically authorized by the owner to file such
application, or any unit of government that is not the owner of the lot but
proposes to acquire the lot by purchase, gift, or condemnation.
         (2)   An application for approval of a special use shall be filed with
the Planning Department.
         (3)   After determining that the application is complete, the Planning
Department shall transmit all applications, plans, and other records pertaining
to the proposed special use to the decision-making body. If a development plan
is required under Section
3.9, the Planning Department shall complete review of the development plan in
accordance with the requirements of Section
3.9, and transmit other records pertaining to the proposed special use to the
decision-making body.
      (C)   Notice and Conduct of Quasi-Judicial Evidentiary Hearings
         Notice and conduct of quasi-judicial evidentiary hearings required
under this section shall be provided pursuant to the general provisions of
Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7.
      (D)   Planning Director Review and Report
         The Planning Director shall review the proposed special use based on
the approval criteria of Section
3.8.3 and distribute the application to the Development Review Committee and,
as deemed necessary, to other reviewers. Based on the results of those reviews,
the Director shall provide a report to the Zoning Board of Adjustment at a
quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing on the special use. This report shall
include a discussion of all plans and policies that have been adopted by the
Town that are relevant to the proposed application.
      (E)   Review and Decision
         (1)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hold at least one (1)
quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing on the proposed special use and, based on
the staff report, the evidence presented at the hearing, the approval criteria
of Section 3.8.3, and any applicable use-specific standards of Section
5.2 or
5.3, approve, approve with modifications, or deny the proposed special use. The
Zoning Board of Adjustment may approve, or approve with modifications, any
special use by a majority vote.
         (2)   If the special use also requires a development plan, then the
Zoning Board of Adjustment shall also review the development plan in accordance
with Section 3.9. Final action to approve the development plan shall not occur
until after approval of the special use.
         (3)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall determine contested facts
and make its decision within a reasonable time. The decision shall be based
upon competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record. The decision
shall be reduced to writing and shall be approved by the Board and signed by
the Chair of the Zoning Board of Adjustment, or his designee. The decision is
effective upon filing with the Planning Department.
         (4)   The decision shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic
mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant, property owner, and to any
person who has submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date the
decision becomes effective. The person required to provide notice shall certify
that proper notice has been made.
   3.8.3   Approval Criteria
      The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall not approve a proposed special use
and any accompanying development plan unless and until it determines that the
proposed use meets all the criteria set forth below, based on the evidence and
testimony received at the quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing or otherwise
appearing in the record of the case:
      (A)   The proposed use or development of the land will generally conform
with the Comprehensive Plan, other official plans and manuals or documents
adopted by the Town;
      (B)   The proposed use or development of the land will not materially
endanger the public health or safety;
      (C)   The proposed use is reasonably necessary for the public health or
general welfare, such as by enhancing the successful operation of the
surrounding area in its basic community functions or by providing an essential
service to the community or region;
      (D)   The proposed use or development of the land will not substantially
injure the value of adjoining or abutting property;
      (E)   The proposed use or development of the land will be in harmony with
the scale, bulk, coverage, density, and character of the area or neighborhood
in which it is located;
      (F)   The proposed use is appropriately located with respect to
transportation facilities, water supply, fire and police protection, waste
disposal, and similar facilities; and
      (G)   The proposed use will not cause undue traffic congestion or create
a traffic hazard or unsafe pedestrian pathway.
   3.8.4   Effect of Approval or Denial
      (A)   Conditions
         In approving a special use, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may attach
reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards. Where appropriate, such
conditions may include requirements that street and utility rights-of-way be
dedicated to the public and that provision be made for recreational space and
facilities. Conditions and safeguards imposed under this subsection shall not
include requirements for which the Town does not have authority under statute
to regulate nor requirements for which the courts have held to be unenforceable
if imposed directly by a local government, including, without limitation,
taxes, impact fees, building design elements within the scope of G.S. 160D-702
(b), driveway-related improvements in excess of those allowed in G.S. 136-18
(29) and G.S. 160A-307, or other unauthorized limitations on the development or
use of land.
      (B)   Subsequent Permits and Approvals
         Approval of an application to establish a special use authorizes the
applicant to obtain building permits, certificates of occupancy, development
plan approval, and other permits or approvals that the Town may require for the
proposed development. If the special use included a development plan that must
be approved by the Zoning Board of Adjustment, then approval of the special use
is contingent on approval of the development plan. The Planning Department
shall review applications for these permits for compliance with the terms of
the special use approval. A permit, certificate, or other approval shall be
issued or valid only for work that complies with the terms of the special use
approval.
      (C)   Transferability of Approval
         A special use approval is not transferable from one (1) property to
another, but may be transferred to a successor-in-interest to the property.
      (D)   Resubmission of Denied Applications
         No application for approval of a special use shall be filed with or
accepted by the Planning Department that is identical or substantially similar
to an application that has been denied by the Zoning Board of Adjustment within
the previous year. This waiting period requirement may be waived in an
individual case, for good cause shown, by the affirmative vote of four-fifths
(4/5) of the members of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (E)   Recording of Approved Special Uses
         Upon expiration of the appeal period, a copy of the signed resolution
approving a special use should be recorded with the applicable county’s
Register of Deeds.
   3.8.5   Changes to Terms and Conditions of Approval
   Any changes to the terms or conditions of approval of the special use shall
require separate review and approval by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Any
application for approval of such a change shall be filed, processed, reviewed,
and approved or denied in the manner set forth in this section for an original
application for special use approval. This section shall not apply, however, to
modifications to the approved development plan for the special use, which are
governed by Section
3.9 of this Ordinance.
   3.8.6   Appeal
   Every decision on a request for a special use permit shall be subject to
review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
pursuant to G.S. 160D-1402. A petition for review shall be filed with the clerk
of Superior Court by the later of thirty (30) days after the decision is
effective, or after a written copy thereof is given in accordance with Section
3.8.2(E)(4). When first-class mail is used to deliver notice, three (3) days
shall be added to the time to file the petition.
(Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-
03, 5-10-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord.
No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03,
10-10-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.9   SUBDIVISIONS PLATS AND DEVELOPMENT PLANS
   3.9.1   Purpose and Structure of This Section; Applicability
      (A)   This section sets forth the procedures for review and approval of
both subdivision plats and development plans.
      (B)   A development plan is required for all residential and non-
residential development, as defined in Section
12.4, with the exception of the following:
         (1)   One detached dwelling or one duplex dwelling, in both cases
including all associated accessory structures and accessory uses, on an
existing lot of record.
         (2)   Plats as specified in Section
3.9.3(B) of this Ordinance.
   3.9.2   Common Procedures for Review and Approval of Development Plans
      (A)   Pre-Application Conference Required
         A pre-application conference is required prior to submission of most
new development plan applications and for some modifications to already-
approved plans; see Section
3.1.5 for instances in which a conference is not required. Generally, minor
modifications to approved plans do not need a pre-application conference.
      (B)   Application Materials
         All development plan applications shall include a set of application
materials prepared pursuant to this section. Approval of these materials shall
be a prerequisite to the review and approval procedures set forth in this
section.
         (1)   General Application Requirements
            Applications shall be filed with the Planning Department and shall
consist of maps or plans that show the proposed development layout and related
information and drawings, as specified by the Planning Director and prepared to
the specifications of the Planning Director. All proposed or existing rights of
way, easements, restrictive covenants or other matters of record that are known
or should reasonably be known by the property owner(s) and that may affect the
property shall be disclosed. Data provided shall be accurate. Submission of an
application containing inaccurate, misleading, or false information, including
but not limited to incorrect measurement or mathematical results, or submission
of an application that omits required information, shall be grounds for
rejection or refusal to act on the application and shall constitute a violation
of this Ordinance and be subject to appropriate penalties and remedies set
forth in
Chapter 11.
            (a)   The application shall provide a statement identifying any and
all modifications from the design standards or improvement requirements set
forth in
Chapters 7 and
8 that the applicant will be requesting, including requests for Minor
Modifications (see Section
3.19) or Variances (see Section
3.20).
            (b)   The application shall also be accompanied by other
applications, if appropriate, such as a Special Use application (Section
3.8) and/or an owner-initiated annexation petition.
            (c)   Any applicant desiring to make a payment of money in lieu of
land dedication pursuant to Section
8.2.2 of this Ordinance shall attach a letter to the plan application
requesting approval to make payment in lieu of dedication of land.
            (d)   A Traffic Management Plan as further described in Section
8.1.1 shall be submitted with an application for any proposed school planned to
have an enrollment of two hundred (200) or more students and for any proposed
religious or other assembly use (i.e., club, lodge, or hall; or special event
center) planned to have a capacity of two hundred (200) or more persons. The
Plan shall be in a format as specified by the Transportation and Facilities
Department Director.
            (e)   During review of the application, the Planning Department,
the Development Review Committee, and/or the Town Council may require such
additional information as may be necessary to review the submission, if
applicable.
         (2)   Prohibiting Phasing to Avoid Requirements
            It is the Town's intent to ensure that larger developments are not
phased or subdivided in piecemeal fashion in order to comply with numerical
requirements of this Ordinance. Two (2) or more developments, represented by
their owners or developers to be separate developments, shall be aggregated and
treated as a single development when they are determined to be part of a
unified plan of development and are physically proximate to one another. The
following factors will be considered to determine whether there is a unified
plan of development:
            (a)   There is unified ownership, indicated by the fact that:
               1.   The same person has retained or shared control of the
developments;
               2.   The same person has ownership or a significant legal or
equitable interest in the developments; or
               3.   There is common management of the developments controlling
the form of physical development or disposition of parcels of the development.
            (b)   There is a reasonable closeness in time between the
completion of eighty (80) percent or less of one (1) development and the
submission to the Town of a master plan or series of plans or drawings for the
other development that is indicative of a common development effort.
            (c)   The voluntary sharing of infrastructure that is indicative of
a common development effort or is designated specifically to accommodate the
developments.
            (d)   There is a common advertising scheme or promotional plan in
effect for the developments.
            (e)   Any information provided by the applicant that the project is
not being phased or subdivided to avoid requirements of this Ordinance.
         (3)   Two Types of Plans
            The applicant has the option to submit either a "full plan"
application or a "sketch plan" application:
            (a)   Full Plan Application
               A full plan application shall include information and supporting
materials required as specified by the Planning Director. Once the application
is complete, the Planning Department shall transmit the application to the
Development Review Committee. If the Committee determines that the materials
comply with all applicable requirements of this Ordinance and Town
specifications, then the Planning Director shall mark the plans as approved. If
the Committee determines that the materials do not comply with all applicable
requirements, or that meeting the applicable requirements would require a
change to the plan that could not be approved by the Planning Director using
the Minor Modification process (see Section
3.19), then the Development Review Committee shall submit the plans to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment for review, modification, and approval or denial.
               Development plans shall meet the required improvements listed in
Section
8.1.3(A) unless plans meet the criteria of Section
8.1.3(B), Exceptions to General Requirements.
            (b)   Sketch Plan Application
               At the option of the applicant, a "sketch plan" instead of a
full plan may be submitted. The information and supporting materials required
shall be as specified by the Planning Director. This option is intended to give
an applicant a preliminary review of their proposed development without having
to prepare complete construction plans, which are required for a full plan
application. This option is a two (2)-step process, with the applicant first
submitting for approval of a sketch plan, followed by submittal of the
construction plans (incorporating the sketch plan approval) in order to receive
complete "full plan" approval to move forward to construct the proposed
development.
               1.   Approval of Sketch Plan Conditional on Approval of
Construction Drawings
                  If the application is submitted under the sketch plan
submission option, approval of the sketch plan shall automatically be
conditioned on the Development Review Committee's subsequent approval of
construction drawings for all improvements required in the plan.
               2.   One Year Deadline to Submit Construction Drawings
                  Construction drawings shall be submitted to the Planning
Department no more than one (1) year after the date the sketch plan is
approved. Failure to submit the construction drawings within this one (1) year
period shall result in the lapse of approval of the sketch plan. The Planning
Director may grant a single, one (1) year extension of this time limit for good
cause shown, upon receiving a request from the applicant.
               3.   Review by Development Review Committee of Construction
Drawings Following Approval of a Sketch Plan
                  a.   If the Committee determines that the materials comply
with all requirements of this Ordinance and applicable Town specifications,
then the Planning Director shall mark the construction drawings as approved.
                  b.   If the Development Review Committee determines that the
materials do not comply with all applicable requirements, or that meeting the
applicable requirements would require a change to the plan that could not be
approved by the Planning Director using the Minor Modification process, then
the Development Review Committee shall submit the construction drawings to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment for review, modification, and approval or denial.
      (C)   Owner-Initiated Annexation Petition Required
         If the property within the proposed plan boundaries requires
annexation into the Town limits, then official approval of the plan connecting
to Town utilities is contingent on annexation into the Town. See Section
3.1.10.
      (D)   Coordination of Plan Review with Special Use and/or Subdivision
Plat Review
         (1)   The review and approval of development plans should be
coordinated with the review and approval of Special Uses (see Section
3.8) to the maximum extent possible. An application for approval of a
development plan may be submitted at the same time as an application for
approval of a special use for the same development. However, the Development
Review Committee shall render separate recommendations and the decision-making
body (if subject to its approval) shall render a separate decision on each
application, recognizing the applications as distinct and subject to different
standards for approval. However, the decision-making body may choose to approve
both applications with one (1) vote.
         (2)   Application for a subdivision plat may only be submitted
following development plan approval, unless a development plan is not required
(see Section
3.9.3(B)).
      (E)   Plans in Nonconforming Structures or Lots
         If a proposed plan involves one (1) or more structures or lots that do
not conform to the regulations of the district in which the plan is located,
then, this plan may be reviewed as a Re-use/Redevelopment Plan provided that
the proposal is consistent with the requirements in Section
3.11.2. If the proposal is not consistent with Section
3.11.2, or includes an expansion of the nonconforming use, structure, or site,
beyond that allowed by Section
3.11.3 then such proposal shall be required to obtain special use approval (see
Section
3.8) unless the applicant has previously obtained the necessary variances from
the Zoning Board of Adjustment. In cases where a variance has been granted,
such plans would follow the normal development plan process.
      (F)   Approval Authority
         (1)   Approval by Zoning Board of Adjustment
            The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have final decision-making
authority on the following types of development plans, which shall be reviewed
using the procedure set forth in this Section:
            (a)   Plans for uses that require approval of a Special Use; and
            (b)   Plans that propose one hundred (100) residential units or
more, or that would construct one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of
nonresidential floor area or more, or that would construct a new drive-through
facility or expand an existing drive-through facility; excepting plans meeting
the following criteria, which plans shall be reviewed by the Planning Director:
               1.   A rezoning for the property was approved within the two (2)
calendar years prior to the date of application for the development plan and
the plan is not otherwise subject to review by the Zoning Board of Adjustment
pursuant to Section
3.9.2(F)(1)(a); or
               2.   Plans for property (a) subject to a development agreement
approved by the Town pursuant to G.S. Chapter 158, Article 1; Chapter 160D,
Article 10; or 160D-1315; and (b) for which no zoning condition requires
approval of the plan by the Town Council.
         (2)   Approval by Town Council
            The Town Council shall have final decision-making authority on the
following types of development plans, which shall be reviewed using the
procedure set forth in this Section.
            (a)   Plans for property within an approved Mixed Use District
where conditions of the associated preliminary development plan require action
by Town Council.
         (3)   Approval by Planning Director
            The Planning Director shall have final decision-making authority on
all development plans not subject to review by the Town Council or Zoning Board
of Adjustment. Such plans shall be reviewed for compliance with all
requirements of this Ordinance and applicable Town specifications.
      (G)   Planning Director Review and Approval Process
         (1)   Within ninety (90) days from the submittal or any re-submittal
of the application, the Planning Director shall review the plan and the
comments and recommendations of the Development Review Committee. The Director
shall either approve or deny the plan within this time period unless the
applicant has caused additional delay or failed to provide necessary or
accurate information.
         (2)   If the Planning Director denies the plan, then the reasons for
the denial shall be stated in the record of action on the plan.
         (3)   In the event the Planning Director denies a plan, an appeal may
be filed with the Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to Section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
      (H)   Town Council and Zoning Board of Adjustment Review and Approval
Process
         (1)   Action by Town Council or Zoning Board of Adjustment
            The application, recommendations, and comments of the Development
Review Committee and other appropriate review bodies shall be forwarded to the
Town Council or Zoning Board of Adjustment, as appropriate, for action. The
Town Council or Zoning Board of Adjustment shall review this information, hold
a quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing, and approve, conditionally approve, or
reject the plan. Notice of the hearing shall be provided and the hearing shall
be conducted in accordance with Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7. The decision-making body may approve, or conditionally approve, any plan
by a majority vote. The decision shall be reduced to writing and reflect the
decision-making body's determination of contested facts and their application
to the applicable standards. The written decision shall be approved by Town
Council and signed by the Mayor or his designee, or approved by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment and signed by the Chair of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
or his designee. The decision of either decision-making body is effective upon
filing with the Planning Department. The decision shall be delivered by
personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant,
property owner, and to any person who has submitted a written request for a
copy prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The person required to
provide notice shall certify that proper notice has been made.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-51915.png]
 
      (I)   Approval Criteria
         A development plan may be approved by the Town Council or Zoning Board
of Adjustment only if it meets the criteria set forth below:
         (1)   The plan complies with all applicable requirements of this
Ordinance, including all applicable Town specifications and official plans and
manuals or documents adopted by the Town. (Note: Plans within Planned
Developments may be subject to different requirements based on the approval).
         (2)   The plan adequately protects other property, or residential uses
located on the same property, from the potential adverse effects of the
proposed development;
         (3)   The plan provides harmony and unity with the development of
nearby properties;
         (4)   The plan provides safe conditions for pedestrians or motorists
and prevents a dangerous arrangement of pedestrian and vehicular ways;
         (5)   The plan provides safe ingress and egress for emergency services
to the site; and
         (6)   The plan provides mitigation for traffic congestion impacts
reasonably expected to be generated by the project.
      (J)   Recording of Instrument for Required Dedications
         (1)   Approval of a development plan shall automatically be
conditioned upon the applicant dedicating any and all lands, interests in land,
and rights-of-way required to be dedicated as part of the approved plan through
an instrument in a form approved by the Town and recorded with the Wake County
Register of Deeds.
         (2)   For development plans not requiring a subdivision plat, such
instruments shall be recorded prior to the issuance of a building permit. In
addition, the applicant shall cause the Wake County Register of Deeds to mail a
copy of the original recorded instruments to the Transportation and Facilities
Department.
         (3)   For development plans requiring a subdivision plat, such
instruments must be recorded prior to, or in conjunction with the recording a
subdivision plat for the development unless otherwise allowed within this
Ordinance. Failure to satisfy this requirement shall render approval of the
plan null and void.
      (K)   Effect of the Plan Approval
         (1)   Approval of a plan shall authorize the applicant to proceed with
any applications for environmental permits, building permits, and other permits
and approvals required in order to develop the property in conformity with the
approved plan. A permit, certificate, or other approval may be issued by the
Town only if it conforms to the approved plan, and the applicant has made all
dedications and improvements required by this Ordinance, except where the non-
compliance is the subject of a modification to the plan approved pursuant to
Section
3.19, Minor Modifications or is otherwise permitted by this Ordinance.
      (L)   Effect of Decision on Successive Applications
         (1)   When a plan application has been denied by the Town Council or
the Planning Director, no plan application covering the same property with
similar land use shall be accepted or considered within twelve (12) months
after the date of the denial.
         (2)   The waiting period required by this Section may be waived in an
individual case, for good cause shown, by the affirmative vote of three-fourths
(3/4) of the members of the Town Council.
      (M)   Changes to Approved Plans
         Changes to approved development plans may be requested by the
applicant and may be approved by the Planning Director under the procedure and
criteria set forth in Section
3.19, Minor Modifications.
   3.9.3   Subdivisions of Land
      (A)   Purpose
         This Section sets forth specific provisions applicable to the review
and approval of applications for subdivisions of land. These specific
provisions supplement the common procedures set forth in Section
3.9.2.
      (B)   Applicability
         A development plan and subdivision plat are required for all
developments that meet the "subdivision" definition (see
Chapter 12), except that only plat recordation is required for the division of
a tract or parcel of land in single ownership if all the following criteria are
met:
         (1)   The tract or parcel to be divided is not exempted under
subdivision (2) of the definition of Subdivision in Section
12.4.
         (2)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided
under this subsection in the ten (10) years prior to division.
         (3)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than five (5) acres.
         (4)   After division, no more than three (3) lots result from the
division.
         (5)   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
            (a)   All lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-
use regulations, if any.
            (b)   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable
zoning requirements, if any.
            (c)   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
      (C)   Prerequisites for Other Approvals
         (1)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy may be issued for
any building, structure, or improvement located within a subdivision, and no
plat for a subdivision may be recorded with the applicable Register of Deeds,
until a development plan has been approved, all required dedications of land
have been made, and all required improvements have been installed in accordance
with the procedures and requirements of this section.
         (2)   The Town shall not accept or maintain any street, and shall not
extend or connect any street lighting, water service, or sanitary sewer service
to any subdivision of land, until and unless a plat for the subdivision has
been approved and recorded in accordance with the requirements set forth in
this Section.
      (D)   [Reserved]
      (E)   Review and Approval of Final Plats
         (1)   Required Dedications, Improvements, Payments, and Guarantees
            Prior to approval of the plat, all dedications and improvements, or
payments and guarantees in lieu thereof that are required by
Chapter 8 of this Ordinance shall be installed on and/or finalized for the
property.
         (2)   Application Requirements
            An application for plat approval under this Section may be filed
only by all of the owners of the property or by an agent, lessee, or contract
purchaser specifically authorized by all of the owners to file such
application. Where an agent, lessee, or contract purchaser files the
application, the agent, lessee, or contract purchaser shall provide the Town
with written documentation that all of the owners of the property have
authorized the filing of the application.
         (3)   Application Filing
            Preliminary copies and required fees for plat approval shall be
submitted to the Planning Director.
         (4)   Planning Director Review and Approval of Plat
            (a)   Approval Criteria for Plats
               The Planning Director shall approve the plat if it is in
substantial conformity to the approved development plan and the applicant has
carried out the improvements shown on the development plan and made all
dedications and improvements, or payments and guarantees in lieu thereof, as
associated with the approved plan and as required by Chapter 8. The district
highway engineer shall be given an opportunity to make recommendations
concerning a subdivision plat if the plat contains proposed State streets,
State highways, or related drainage systems.
            (b)   Processing of Approved Plat
               If all conditions and requirements for approval of the plat have
been met, the Planning Director or designee shall sign all copies of the plat
for recording. The Planning Department shall return the approved and signed
copies to the applicant, one (1) of which the applicant shall file with the
applicable Register of Deeds within thirty (30) days after approval.
         (5)   Effect of Approval of a Plat
            The recording of the approved plat with the Register of Deeds shall
authorize the subdivider, owner, or any subsequent developer of the property,
to proceed with such applications for permits as this Ordinance may require for
development on the property. No building permit may be issued until an approved
subdivision plat has been recorded.
         (6)   Appeal of Denial
            In the event the Planning Director denies a plat, an appeal may be
made pursuant to G.S. 160D-1403(b).
      (F)   Actions by Register of Deeds
         The Town shall file a copy of this Ordinance with the applicable
county’s Register of Deeds. After that filing, the Register of Deeds shall not
file or record a plat of subdivision located within the corporate limits or
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town without the approval of the Town. The
landowner shown on a plat submitted for recording, or his or her authorized
agent, shall sign a statement on the plat stating whether or not any land shown
on the plat is within the corporate limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the Town. The filing or recording of a plat without the approval of the Town as
required by this Section shall be null and void. The Clerk of the Superior
Court of the applicable county shall not order or direct the recording of a
plat where such recording would conflict with this Section.
      (G)   Restriction on Sale or Transfer of Subdivided Land without Approved
Plat
         Any person who transfers or sells any land located within the
corporate limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town by reference to a
plat that has not been approved by the Town and recorded with the applicable
county’s Register of Deeds shall be guilty of a misdemeanor with the exception
of presale contracts as authorized in G.S. 160D-807. The description by metes
and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document used in the process
of selling or transferring shall not exempt the transaction from such
penalties. The Town also may enjoin such transfer or sale by filing an action
for an injunction.
   3.9.4   [Reserved]
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06;
Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-
01, 2-12-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord.
No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-03, 5-10-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04,
5-24-12; Ord. No. 13-LDO-01, 2-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No.
2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-
14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-04, 8-28-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-004, 8-27-15; Ord. No.
2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-01,
10-26-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-02, 12-14-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-02, 8-9-18; Ord.
No. 2018-LDO-03, 11-15-18; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03,
10-10-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-04, 12-12-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord.
No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-16-23)
3.10   [RESERVED]
3.11   RE-USE/REDEVELOPMENT PLANS
   The re-use or redevelopment of a vacant nonconforming structure or vacant
conforming structure on a nonconforming site shall not be required to undergo
the typical development plan review procedure if the eligibility requirements
of Section
3.11.3 below are met. Owners of such properties may submit a re-use/
redevelopment plan in lieu of a full development plan (see Section
3.9). For purposes of this Section
3.11, a nonconforming site is a site that was lawful at the time it was
established and was part of an approved development plan at the time it was
established, but which fails to comply with one (1) or more of the applicable
regulations or standards of this Ordinance, including development plan
requirements.
   3.11.1   Intent
      The intent of the re-use/redevelopment plan process is to encourage the
utilization of existing nonconforming buildings and sites as opposed to their
remaining vacant while at the same time reducing such nonconformities to the
extent practical. The process allows owners to make improvements to an existing
structure or site without having to go through a lengthy review process,
produce a detailed development plan, reach compliance with all provisions of
this Ordinance, or make roadway improvements.
   3.11.2   Changes Allowed for Nonconformities
      Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, development proposals for
vacant nonconforming structures or conforming structures on nonconforming sites
may utilize the provisions of Section
8.1.3(B) to make minor or inconsequential changes provided that there is no net
increase in the amount of building square footage or improved floor area.
   3.11.3    Eligibility Requirements
   To qualify for submission of a re-use/redevelopment plan, the following
conditions must exist:
         (1)   The proposed use is permitted within the zoning district, and
provided that the new or expanded use does not generate twenty percent (20%)
more traffic compared to the amount of traffic generated by the existing and/or
previous use as determined by the ITE Trip Generation Manual.
         (2)   The previous use was part of an approved development plan
(whether approved by the Town of Cary or other jurisdiction such as Wake
County).
         (3)   The redeveloped use will occupy an existing building(s) on the
site, with no expansions or additions proposed.
         (4)   If the site is in the Watershed Protection Overlay district, the
requirements of Section
7.3 Stormwater Management must be addressed; or if the site is outside of the
Watershed Protection Overlay district, no more than twelve thousand (12,000)
square feet of additional area is disturbed as a part of the proposal.
         (5)   The proposed new use does not expand existing encroachments into
required buffers or streetscapes.
         (6)   The site will be in compliance with the provisions of
Chapter 9, Signs.
         (7)   The structure or site has been abandoned for a period of one
hundred eighty (180) calendar days or more.
   3.11.4   Limitations
      Proposed uses only allowable through an overlay district designation may
not utilize the re-use/redevelopment plan process. Proposals which do not meet
the eligibility requirements of Section
3.11.3 are required to undergo the normal development plan review process and/
or the special use process (see Sections
3.8 and
10.1.8) in cases of expansion or major alteration.
      Proposals involving a change in use that, although may be permitted
within the underlying zoning district, will increase the intensity of the use
(s) originally approved, will be required to demonstrate compliance with the
current Ordinance requirements applicable to the proposed change prior to the
issuance of a Building Permit and/or Certificate of Occupancy. Demonstrating
compliance can be accomplished either through the development plan or re-use/
redevelopment plan process, whichever is applicable.
      Proposals for nonconforming sites or structures that have been vacant for
less than one hundred eighty (180) calendar days and do not involve, either
proposed or required, any changes to the site or exterior of the structure
shall be reviewed during the Building Permit and/or Certificate of Occupancy
process for compliance with the approved development plan or ordinance
requirements in effect at the time it was established. If one (1) or more
aspects of the site and/or structure fail to comply with the applicable plan
approval or ordinance requirements, the deficiencies shall be corrected and the
Planning Director must verify compliance prior to the issuance of a Certificate
of Occupancy.
   3.11.5   Dedication and Roadway Improvements
      (A)   While such redevelopment projects are not typically required to
make roadway or other off-site improvements, dedication of required right-of-
way is required as part of the re-use/redevelopment plan approval process.
      (B)   Full dedication of all lands designated by the Cary Transportation
Plan is not required if such dedication would result in the removal of required
parking spaces or other features needed for the development to operate. In such
cases, a partial dedication of lands indicated as needed by the Transportation
Plan, but not needed for site functionality may be required.
      (C)   In some cases, if curb and gutter and/or sidewalk/trail
installation may be required if it does not exist along the property's
frontage, and can be properly located for the ultimate roadway section
indicated in the Transportation Plan without disturbing existing functional
site features or is needed to provide an important link with existing or future
sidewalks/trails.
      (D)   In some cases, grading to the future roadway widening may be
required if needed to accommodate landscaping requirements. Postponing
landscape requirements may be done if the future widening will ultimately
remove the required plantings.
      (E)   If the site is located along an existing two (2) lane roadway, the
Transportation and Facilities Director may require roadway improvements to
address the use's impact.
   3.11.6   Required Improvements and Plan Submittal Requirements
   A re-use/redevelopment plan shall include and address, at a minimum, the
following elements:
      (1)   Lighting (parking lot, building lighting, and street lights); and
      (2)   Landscaping and/or fencing adequate to minimize impact on adjoining
properties; and
      (3)   Off-street parking/parking lot design (dimensional standards and
standard specifications); and
      (4)   Screening of dumpsters, storage, heating and air conditioning, and
similar equipment; and
      (5)   Building improvements (painting or other changes); and
      (6)   Access roads and entrances or exit drives to ensure automotive and
pedestrian safety and traffic flow; and
      (7)   Depiction of all right-of-way and easement dedications to meet the
Transportation Plan (if applicable).
   3.11.7   Exceptions for Required Improvements
   The Director of Planning and/or the Director of Transportation and
Facilities and/or the Director of Water Resources may waive, in part or in
full, certain required improvements if meeting them is deemed impractical or
unreasonable given the constraints on the existing site. Consideration may also
be given to the extent of the required improvements in relation to the specific
nature and scope of the re-use/redevelopment proposal.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-04, 7-23-
09; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14)
3.12   DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD HAZARD AREA
   3.12.1   Floodplain Administrator
      The Town shall appoint a Floodplain Administrator to administer and
implement the provisions of Section
3.12. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator receives assistance from
others to complete tasks to administer and implement this section, the
Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the coordination and
community’s overall compliance with the National Flood Insurance Program and
the provisions of this section. The Floodplain Administrator’s duties shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (A)   Review all floodplain development permit applications and other
forms of development approval for compliance with the provisions in Section
14.7 ("Flood Damage Prevention") and issue permits for all proposed development
within Special Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas;
      (B)   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas
and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas to assure that all necessary local,
state and federal permits have been received, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334;
      (C)   Notify adjacent communities, the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, and the State Coordinator for
the National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, that it has been demonstrated that the altered watercourse is
maintained so that the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse is not
diminished, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
      (D)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of Section
14.7.3 of this ordinance;
      (E)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the provisions of Section
14.7.3 of this ordinance;
      (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of Section
14.7.3 of this ordinance;
      (G)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certification from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of Section
14.7.3 of this ordinance;
      (H)   Interpret the exact location of the boundaries of the Special Flood
Hazard Area;
      (I)   Obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data
available from a federal, state or other source where base flood elevation data
has not been provided in accordance with Section
14.7.2 in order to administer the provisions of Section
14.7, Flood Damage Prevention;
      (J)   Provide the N.C. Department of Crime Control and Public Safety,
Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the National Flood
Insurance Program maps delineating new corporate limits within six (6) months
from the date of annexation or change in corporate limits;
      (K)   Maintain all records pertaining to the provisions of this Section
3.12 and Section
14.7, and to hold them open for public inspection; and
      (L)   Review all applications for development and all variances to the
required standards and to maintain all of the records required by Section
14.7.
   3.12.2   Permit and Approval Requirements
      (A)   Compliance Required
         No development shall occur in the Flood Hazard Area, unless it
complies with the procedures set forth in this section and the flood damage
prevention standards set forth in Section
14.7 of this Ordinance. In general, no development is allowed in the Flood
Hazard Area unless a special use is approved; the property/use is exempted from
this requirement; or the development is for roads, greenways, pedestrian
crossings, park-related equipment, or public utilities and facilities such as
waste water, gas, electrical, and water systems that are located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (B)   Establishment of Floodplain Development Permit
         A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required in conformance with
the provisions of this ordinance prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard
Areas determined in accordance with Section
14.7 of this ordinance.
         The person undertaking such development shall file an application for
a floodplain development permit with the Floodplain Administrator. The
application shall be filed on a form prescribed by the Floodplain
Administrator. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the application and
shall issue the permit only if the proposed development conforms to the flood
damage prevention standards set forth in Section
14.7 of this Ordinance.
      (C)   Additional Requirement for Non-Residential Structures Located
within the Flood Hazard Area
         No non-residential structure or related impervious surface shall be
built, expanded, or located within the Flood Hazard Area until and unless the
Zoning Board of Adjustment has approved a special use permit for such structure
or surface under Section
3.8. The Board shall approve such a structure as part of the development plan
only upon finding that, without this ability, the owner cannot make a
reasonable use of his or her property. In other words, this restriction causes
undue hardship. The Board may attach to the approval of the development plan
such reasonable conditions as it deems necessary to safeguard the public
health, safety, and welfare against any flood hazards that the proposed non-
residential structure may present.
   3.12.3   Approval Procedure
      (A)   Upon receiving any application for development within the Flood
Hazard Area, the Floodplain Administrator shall determine whether the proposed
development meets the flood damage prevention standards set forth in Section
14.7.
      (B)   If the Floodplain Administrator determines that the proposed
development does not meet these standards, then the Town shall issue no permit,
certificate, or other form of approval for the proposed development.
      (C)   In those cases where this Ordinance requires some other form of
approval for development in the Flood Hazard Area, the Floodplain Administrator
shall report its determination to the body or agency responsible for the
issuance of that other form of development approval, within a reasonable amount
of time for that body to act accordingly in approving or denying the proposed
development.
      (D)   In those cases where no other form of approval is required for the
proposed development in an area of special flood hazard, the Floodplain
Administrator shall notify the applicant of its determination within a
reasonable amount of time.
   3.12.4   Appeals
      (A)   All questions on the enforcement of this section shall first be
addressed to the Floodplain Administrator. The decisions of the Floodplain
Administrator may be appealed by following the procedure set forth in Section
3.21.
      (B)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may grant relief from a decision of
the Floodplain Administrator only if the Board finds that the Floodplain
Administrator acted incorrectly in interpreting or administering any of the
duties or functions listed under Section
3.12.1; other provisions of this Section
3.12; or Section
14.7, Flood Damage Prevention.
(Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-
LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21;
Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
3.13   GRADING PERMITS
   3.13.1   Purpose and Scope
      This section sets forth the procedures for obtaining a grading permit for
development and land-disturbing activities within the Town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction. (The standards for control of sedimentation and
soil erosion appear in Section
14.4.)
      (A)   Applicability
         (1)   Except as provided in paragraphs (B) and (C) below, it shall be
unlawful to conduct any land-disturbing activity without first obtaining a
grading permit from the Town.
         (2)   Except where an adopted Town policy allows the issuance of
grading permits prior to final development plan approval, no application for a
grading permit shall be filed or accepted until the project for which the
permit is sought has received all other necessary approvals required under
Chapter 3 of this Ordinance.
      (B)   Exemptions from All Grading Standards and Permit Requirements
         The requirements of this section and Section
14.4 of this Ordinance shall apply to all land-disturbing activities undertaken
by any person within the Town's corporate limits or extraterritorial
jurisdiction, except for the following:
         (1)   Agriculture
            Land-disturbing activities undertaken on agricultural land that is
taxed at the present-use value standard;
         (2)   Forestry
            Land-disturbing activities undertaken on forest land for the
production and harvesting of timber and timber products and which are conducted
in accordance with Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water Quality (best
management practices) as adopted by the N.C. Department of Environment and
Natural Resources. Within the Watershed Protection Overlay, however, both a
permit and a valid forestry management plan shall be required from the
appropriate federal or state agencies.);
         (3)   Mining
            Land-disturbing activities undertaken by persons, as defined in
G.S. 113A-52(8), who are otherwise regulated by the provisions of the Mining
Act of 1971, as amended (G.S. 74-46 through G.S. 74-68);
         (4)   Fire Fighting
            Land-disturbing activities undertaken for the purpose of fighting
fires; and
         (5)   Activities Regulated by Sedimentation Control Commission
            The following land-disturbing activities that are regulated by the
North Carolina Sedimentation Control Commission:
            (a)   Land-disturbing activities conducted by the State, the United
States, a unit of local government, or persons or agencies having the power of
eminent domain;
            (b)   Land-disturbing activities licensed by the State or the
United States;
            (c)   Land-disturbing activities funded in whole or in part by the
State or the United States.
      (C)   Exemptions from Grading Permit Requirements
         The land-disturbing activities set forth below need not obtain a
grading permit, yet shall nevertheless comply with the requirements set forth
in this Ordinance, including the soil erosion and sedimentation control
requirements of Section
14.4. These activities include:
         (1)   Construction of a structure subject to regulation under the
North Carolina Residential Code for One- and Two-family Dwellings on a single
lot, except when the disturbed area exceeds one (1) acre;
         (2)   Land-disturbing activities that do not exceed twelve thousand
(12,000) square feet in surface area, on contiguous lands under single or
diverse ownership being developed as a unit; and
         (3)   The stockpiling of raw or processed sand, stone, or gravel in
material processing plants and storage yards, provided that the exposed surface
area of such materials does not exceed a contiguous area of twelve thousand
(12,000) square feet.
   3.13.2   Application Requirements
      (A)   An application for a grading permit shall be filed with the Town.
An application for a grading permit may be filed only by the owner of the
property on which the land-disturbing activity is to occur or a contractor,
agent, lessee, or contract purchaser specifically authorized by the owner to
file such application.
      (B)   The application shall include an erosion control plan that has been
designed and signed by a registered professional engineer or registered
landscape architect who is qualified in hydrology.
      (C)   Before filing the application, the applicant is strongly encouraged
to request a pre-application conference with the Planning Department. See
Section
3.1.5.
   3.13.3   Review and Approval
      (A)   The Town shall review each application and shall act to approve,
approve with modifications, approve with performance reservations, or deny the
application, based on the criteria set forth in Section
3.13.4. The review shall be conducted in conjunction with any development plan
approval that may be required for the proposed development.
      (B)   Where the application must be revised in accordance with any
modifications or performance reservations required by the Town, the applicant
shall submit a revised application to the Town. The Stormwater Manager shall
approve or deny the revised application.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7655.jpg]
Grading Permit
      (C)   Upon approval of the application, the Town shall issue a grading
permit for the proposed land-disturbing activity. The applicant shall keep a
copy of the grading permit and the approved erosion control plan on file at the
job site.
      (D)   In the event that the Town disapproves the application, the Town
shall advise the applicant in writing as to the specific reasons that the plan
was disapproved. The applicant may appeal the Town's decision to deny or modify
the proposed application by following the appeals procedure set forth in
Section
3.21. If the Zoning Board of Adjustment upholds the denial or modification of
the application, then the applicant may appeal this decision to the North
Carolina Sedimentation Control Commission as provided in G.S. 113A-61(C) and
N.C. Administrative Code Title 15, 4B.0018(b). Alternatively, the applicant may
appeal the disapproval of the plan directly to the Commission, in accordance
with G.S. 113A-61, without appeal to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   3.13.4   Approval Criteria
      (A)   The Town shall approve only those applications that are shown to
have the potential to control accelerated erosion and prevent off-site
siltation at least the equivalent in effectiveness, safety, quality, and
durability of that prescribed in the current edition of the "Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Planning and Design Manual" published by the North
Carolina Sedimentation Control Commission.
      (B)   The Town may deny the application for any of the following reasons,
if the applicant, or any parent or subsidiary corporation (if the applicant is
a corporation) meets any of the criteria set forth below. For purposes of this
subsection, an applicant's record may be considered for only the two (2) years
prior to the application date.
         (1)   The applicant has failed to substantially comply with state
rules or local ordinances and regulation adopted pursuant to the Sedimentation
Pollution Control Act;
         (2)   The applicant is conducting or has conducted land-disturbing
activity without an approved permit, or has received notice of violation of a
permit previously approved by the North Carolina Sedimentation Control
Commission, the Town, or another local government, and has not complied with
the notice within the time specified therein;
         (3)   The applicant has failed to pay a civil penalty assessed
pursuant to the Sedimentation Pollution Control Act or this Ordinance for
failure to comply with the applicable sedimentation and erosion control
requirements, where such payment is due and no appeal is pending regarding the
penalty;
         (4)   The applicant has been convicted of a misdemeanor pursuant to
G.S. 113A-64(b), or any similar provision of this Ordinance, for failure to
comply with the applicable sedimentation and erosion control requirements.
   3.13.5   Effect of Approval; Certificate of Erosion Control Compliance
      (A)   Following approval of the grading permit application, the applicant
shall install the initial sedimentation and erosion control measures specified
in the approved erosion control plan.
      (B)   The land-disturbing activity shall not begin until the Stormwater
Manager has inspected these initial measures and issued a certificate of
erosion control compliance indicating that these initial measures conform to
the approved application.
      (C)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued by
the Inspections and Permits Department prior to the issuance of the certificate
of erosion control compliance.
      (D)   The grading permit shall be valid so long as the development plan
to which it refers remains valid and in effect. When the approval of the
development plan lapses, the grading permit is null and void.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27376.jpg]
Certificate of Erosion Control Compliance
   3.13.6   Responsibility for Maintenance and Additional Erosion Control
Measures
      (A)   During development of a site, the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity shall install and maintain all temporary and permanent
erosion and sedimentation control measures as required by the approved
application and any provision of, or order adopted pursuant to, this Ordinance
or the Sedimentation Pollution Control Act (G.S. 113A-50 et seq., as amended).
      (B)   After development of the site is complete, the landowner or person
in possession or control of the land shall install and/or maintain all
necessary permanent erosion and sedimentation control measures, except for
those measures installed within a road or street right-of-way or easement that
a government agency has accepted for maintenance.
      (C)   Whenever the Town determines that significant sedimentation is
occurring as a result of a land-disturbing activity, despite the application
and maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity or the person responsible for maintenance shall be required
to take additional protective action as the Town deems necessary to control the
sedimentation.
      (D)   All uncovered areas that existed on the effective date of the State
rules and resulted from land disturbing activity, exceed twelve thousand
(12,000) square feet, are subject to continued accelerated erosion, and are
causing off-site damage from sedimentation, shall be provided with a ground
cover or other protective measures, structures, or devices sufficient to
restrain accelerated erosion and control off-site sedimentation. The required
ground cover shall be consistent with this Section
3.13 and Chapters
7 and 14 of this Ordinance.
   3.13.7   Changes to Approved Erosion Control Plans
      (A)   Changes Initiated by Department
         Following commencement of a land-disturbing activity pursuant to an
approved grading permit, if the Town determines that the approved application
is inadequate to meet the requirements of this Ordinance, then the Town may
require such revisions to the plan as are necessary to comply with this
Ordinance.
      (B)   Changes Initiated by Applicant
         The applicant may apply at any time to amend a grading permit, in
written and/or graphic form, under the same conditions and following the same
procedure as the original application. Until such time as the Town approves
such an amendment, the land-disturbing activity shall not proceed except in
accordance with the application as originally approved.
(Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-
LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22;
Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
3.14   BUILDING PERMITS
   3.14.1   Building Permit Required
      A building or structure that is governed by the State Building Code may
be constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, moved, occupied, or
demolished only after the Inspections and Permits Department has issued a
building permit for such work. A building permit shall be issued only for work
that conforms to the requirements and standards of this Ordinance and the terms
and conditions of any other permits, approvals, or variances granted pursuant
to this Ordinance.
   3.14.2   Application Requirements
      (A)   An application for a building permit shall be filed with the
Inspections and Permits Department and may be filed only by the owner of the
lot on which the building or structure is to be located or an agent, lessee, or
contract purchaser specifically authorized by the owner to file such
application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7659.jpg]
Building Permit
      (B)   Applications for new construction shall include evidence that a new
water and/or sewer service connection has been approved for such construction,
in accordance with the Cary Code of Ordinances.
      (C)   A review of compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance will
occur concurrently with the evaluation of a building permit application. This
review shall include, but is not limited to: off-street parking, landscaping,
buffers, or other developmental standard as listed in
Chapters 5 through
8 of this Ordinance.
      (D)   For all residential detached dwellings and related accessory
buildings with a permanent foundation to be located within five (5) feet of a
required setback line or easement, a sealed as-built foundation survey and a
written statement from the surveyor, builder, owner or architect identifying
the distance which sills, cornices, eaves or other architectural or ornamental
features will extend beyond the exterior walls, must be submitted to the
Inspections and Permits Department at the time of foundation inspection. For
all buildings without a permanent foundation to be located within five (5) feet
of a required setback line or easement, a sealed as-built foundation survey and
a written statement from the surveyor, builder, owner or architect identifying
the distance which sills, cornices, eaves or other architectural or ornamental
features will extend beyond the exterior walls, must be submitted to the
Inspections and Permits Department prior to the scheduling of the rough-in
inspection. The survey shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor in the
State of North Carolina and shall illustrate to location of all existing and
proposed structures and improvements, as well as all property lines, building
setback lines, buffers and easements. The requirements for a survey shall not
apply to the following:
         (1)   Any structures which do not require a building permit; or
         (2)   Where there is an existing structure and an accurate survey
already available such that the Permits and Inspections Department can
determine the field location of existing and proposed structures without
requiring a new survey.
   3.14.3   Approval Procedure; Duration of Approval
      (A)   When proper application for a building permit and the payment of
all required fees and charges has been made, the Inspections and Permits
Department shall issue the building permit upon finding that the application
and the proposed work comply with the provisions of this Ordinance and all
other applicable ordinances and construction codes of the Town.
      (B)   Where any ordinance or construction code of the Town or any
provision of the General Statutes of North Carolina requires that work be done
by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no building permit for such
work shall be issued unless it is to be performed by such licensed specialty
contractor.
      (C)   Approval and distribution of drawings and specifications required
shall be coordinated by the Inspections and Permits Department and shall
conform to the current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code.
      (D)   The building permit issued by the Inspections and Permits
Department shall be conspicuously posted by the applicant on the property for
which it was obtained in the manner prescribed by the Inspections and Permits
Department. The building permit shall remain so posted until the applicant has
obtained a permanent certificate of occupancy from the Inspections and Permits
Department pursuant to Section
3.15.
      (E)   A building permit shall become null and void unless the work
approved by the permit is commenced within six (6) months after the date of
issuance. No work shall be considered to have commenced for the purposes of
this paragraph until an inspection has been made and recorded. If after
commencement the work is discontinued for a period of twelve (12) months, the
permit therefore shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any permit
that has expired shall thereafter be performed until a permit has been
reinstated, or until a new permit has been secured.
   3.14.4   Notification and Approval Before Construction Begins
      (A)   Before any work begins pursuant to the building permit, the
applicant shall furnish the Inspections and Permits Department with the names
of all contractors and subcontractors who will be performing the work.
      (B)   The applicant, or his or her agent, foreman, or superintendent,
shall provide twenty-four (24) hours advance notice to the Inspections and
Permits Department at such time as the work is ready for inspection under the
State Building Code. Upon receiving such notification, the Inspections and
Permits Department shall inspect the work. No building or structure shall be
occupied prior to the completion of all required inspections.
   3.14.5   Changes to Approved Permits
      (A)   After a building permit has been issued, no substantial changes or
deviations from the terms of the permit or the application and accompanying
plans and specifications shall be made without the specific written approval of
such changes or deviations by the Inspections and Permits Department.
      (B)   An amendment to a building permit that requires payment of an
additional fee, either because of an increase in the size of the buildings, a
change in the scope of work, or an increase in the estimated cost of the
proposed work, shall not be approved until the applicant has paid the
additional fees and the amendment has been properly reviewed and approved for
conformance with the State Building Code.
      (C)   Any change in tenancy, occupation, or use of an existing structure
shall require review and approval of a Building Permit application consistent
with the requirements of this Section.
   3.14.6   Revocation of Building Permit
   The Inspections and Permits Department may revoke and require the return of
any building permit by notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the
reason for such revocation. The Department shall revoke building permits for
any of the following reasons:
      (A)   Any material departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications;
      (B)   Refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of this
Ordinance or any other applicable State or local laws;
      (C)   False statements or misrepresentations made in securing such
permit.
         The Inspections and Permits Department may also revoke any building
permit issued in violation of this Ordinance or any other applicable State or
local laws. Appeals of Building Permit requirements or revocations must be made
to the North Carolina State Building Code Council.
(Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01,
7-25-16; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.15   CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY
   3.15.1   Certificate of Occupancy Required
      (A)   No new building or part thereof may be occupied, no addition or
enlargement of any existing building may be occupied, no existing building that
has been altered or moved may be occupied, and no change in the use or
occupancy of any building may be made in any existing building or part thereof,
until the Inspections and Permits Department has issued a certificate of
occupancy or temporary certificate, stating that the building and/or the
proposed use complies with the provisions of this Ordinance, including any
applicable regulations applying to the proposed use and/or the zoning district
in which the use is to be located.
      (B)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required for the purpose of
maintaining, renewing, changing, or extending a nonconforming use.
   3.15.2   Approval Procedure
      (A)   The Inspections and Permits Department shall issue a certificate of
occupancy when, after examination of the building, structure, landscaping and/
or other improvements or changes to the property, the Department finds that the
building complies with the applicable provisions of this Ordinance and other
applicable ordinances and construction codes of the Town.
      (B)   The Inspections and Permits Department shall issue the certificate
of occupancy within ten (10) days after the erection or structural alteration
of the building or part thereof to be occupied has been completed in conformity
with the applicable provisions of this Ordinance and other applicable
ordinances and construction codes of the Town.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7661.jpg]
Certificate of Occupancy
      (C)   The Director may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy, which
shall be valid only for the period of time stated in the certificate, for a
specified portion or portions of a building that may safely be occupied prior
to final completion of the entire building and/or site. Conditions that are
attached to the temporary certificate of occupancy must be completed prior to
the expiration of the certificate. When such conditions have not been completed
prior to the expiration date of the temporary certificate, the certificate of
occupancy shall immediately expire. Upon receipt of a written application to
the Director stating satisfactory reasons for the failure to complete work
within the given time period, the Director may renew the certificate for a
specified period of time, not to exceed ninety (90) days.
(Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.16   SIGN PERMITS
   3.16.1   Permits Required for Sign
   If a sign requiring a permit under this chapter is to be placed,
constructed, erected or modified on a site, the owner of the lot shall secure a
sign permit prior to the construction, placement, erection or modification of
such a sign in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
   3.16.2   Permits To Be Consistent with This Chapter
   With the exception of signs that comply with a Master Sign Plan within a
Planned Development (provided such plan was approved prior to April 14, 2011),
no sign permit of any kind shall be issued for an existing or proposed
permanent sign unless such sign is consistent with:
      (A)   Any Master Sign Plan approved and in effect for the property; and
      (B)   The conditions of this chapter.
   3.16.3   Application Requirements
      (A)   An application for a sign permit may be filed only by the owner of
the property on which the sign is to be erected, or by an agent, lessee, or
contract purchaser specifically authorized by the owner to file such
application. Where an agent, lessee, or contract purchaser files the
application, the agent, lessee, or contract purchaser shall provide the Town
with written documentation that the owner of the property has authorized the
filing of the application.
      (B)   An application for a sign permit shall be filed with the Planning
Department on a form prescribed by the Department, along with the fee for such
certificate as prescribed by the Town Council.
      (C)   Each application for a sign permit shall contain the information
required on the application form, and such other information regarding the
proposed sign as the Planning Department may deem necessary in order to
determine whether the proposed sign complies with the applicable requirements
of this chapter and other applicable ordinances of the Town.
      (D)   The Planning Department shall determine whether the application is
complete. If the Department determines that the application is not complete,
then it shall notify the applicant of any deficiencies and shall take no
further steps to process the application until the applicant remedies the
deficiencies.
   3.16.4   Approval Procedure
   Signs identified in
Table 9.2-1,
Table 9.2-2, or
Table 9.2-3, whichever is applicable, as requiring a permit shall be erected,
installed or created only in accordance with a duly issued and valid sign
permit from the Planning Director. Such permit shall be issued only in
accordance with the following requirements and procedures:
      (A)   An application for construction, creation or installation of a new
sign or for modification of an existing sign shall be accompanied by detailed
drawing to show the dimensions, design, structure, and location of each
particular sign, to the extent that such details are not contained in a Master
Sign Plan then in effect for the site. One (1) application may include multiple
signs on the same site.
      (B)   The Planning Director may cause an inspection of the site for which
each permit for a new sign or modification of an existing sign is issued during
the sixth month period after the issuance of such permit or at such earlier
date as the owner may request. If the construction is substantially complete
but not in full compliance with this chapter or other applicable codes, the
Planning Director shall give the owner or applicant notice of the deficiencies
and shall allow an additional thirty (30) days from the date of inspection for
the deficiencies to be corrected. If the deficiencies are not corrected by such
date, the permit shall lapse.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7663.jpg]
Sign Permit Approval Procedure
      (C)   Within five (5) working days of receiving an application for a sign
permit or for a Master Sign Plan, the Planning Director shall review it for
completeness. If it is incomplete, the Planning Director shall within such five
(5)-day period, send to the applicant a notice of the specific ways in which
the application is deficient, with appropriate references to the applicable
sections of this chapter, or
Chapter 9.
      (D)   Within twenty (20) days of submission of a complete application for
a sign permit, the Planning Director shall either:
         (1)   Issue the sign permit, if the sign conforms in every respect
with the requirements of this chapter or
Chapter 9, and the applicable Master Sign Plan; or
         (2)   Deny the sign permit if the sign fails in any respect to conform
to the requirements of this chapter or
Chapter 9, and the applicable Master Sign Plan. In case of a rejection, the
Planning Director shall specify the sections of this chapter or
Chapter 9, with which the sign is inconsistent.
   3.16.5   Lapse of Sign Permit
   A sign permit shall lapse automatically if the business is discontinued for
a period of ninety (90) days or more.
   3.16.6   Reserved
   3.16.7   Removal of Signs Upon Discontinuation of Use
   Whenever the use of a building or premises by a specified business or other
establishment is discontinued by the owner or occupant for a period of ninety
(90) days, the sign permits for all signs pertaining to that business or
establishment that were installed by the occupant or owner shall be deemed to
have lapsed, and the signs shall be removed, as well as all signs that do not
conform to the standards of this chapter. The Master Sign Plan for the
premises, if applicable, shall remain in effect provided it does not conflict
with the requirements of this Chapter.
(Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-
02, 4-14-11; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-8-16)
3.17   SITE-SPECIFIC VESTING PLANS; VESTED RIGHTS
   3.17.1   Purpose
   The purpose of this Section is to provide for the establishment of site-
specific vesting plans pursuant to G.S. 160D-108.1 in order to ensure
reasonable certainty, stability, and fairness in the land-use planning process,
secure the reasonable expectations of landowners, and foster cooperation
between the public and private sectors in the area of land-use planning in
recognition that Town approval of land-use development typically follows
significant landowner investment in site evaluation, planning, development
costs, consultant fees, and related expenses. Vested rights may also be
established pursuant to G.S. 160D-108 or by application of common law
principles.
   3.17.2   Establishment and Effect of Site-Specific Vesting Plan
   A vested right shall be deemed established with respect to any property upon
the approval of a site-specific vesting plan, pursuant to the provisions of
this Section. Such vested right shall confer upon the landowner the right to
undertake and complete the development and use of said property under the terms
and conditions of the site-specific vesting plan. This right to carry out the
development in accordance with the approved plan shall attach to and run with
the land, rather than being personal to the recipient of plan approval.
   3.17.3   Vested Rights Period
      (A)   A vested right to develop under a site-specific vesting plan shall
terminate two (2) years after the effective date of approval of the site
specific vesting plan with respect to all buildings and uses for which the
developer has not, by that time, filed a valid building permit application in
accordance with Section
3.14 of this Ordinance.
      (B)   In approving a site-specific vesting plan, the Town Council may
extend the two (2)-year vested rights period to a period of up to five (5)
years, where warranted in light of all relevant circumstances, including, but
not limited to, the size and phasing of development, the level of investment,
the need for the development, economic cycles, and market conditions or other
considerations. This decision shall be in the sound discretion of the Town
Council .
   3.17.4   Procedure
      In order to be entitled to the vested rights period set forth in Section
3.17.3 above, the owner or developer of the property must apply for a site-
specific vesting plan with the Planning Department.
      (A)   Applicability; application
         An applicant who wishes to obtain a site-specific vesting plan shall
apply for such at the time of an initial development plan application. The
site-specific vesting plan application shall include the approximate boundaries
of the site; significant topographical and other natural features affecting
development of the site; the approximate location on the site of the proposed
buildings, structures, and other improvements; the approximate dimensions,
including height, of the proposed buildings and other structures; and the
approximate location of all existing and proposed infrastructure on the site,
including water, sewer, stormwater, roads, and pedestrian walkways.
         (1)   Planning Director Review, Report, and Recommendation
            The Planning Director shall review each proposed site-specific
vesting plan and development plan and shall distribute the application to the
Development Review Committee. The Development Review Committee shall determine
if the development plan complies with this Ordinance. If the Development Review
Committee finds the development plan complies with this Ordinance, the Director
shall provide a report to the Town Council for consideration. This report shall
include a discussion of all plans and policies that have been adopted by the
Town and are relevant to the application as well as the Development Review
Committee's recommendation.
         (2)   Town Council Action
            If the development plan requires review by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment pursuant to Section
3.9.2, the development plan must first be considered and approved by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment. If the development plan does not require Zoning Board of
Adjustment review and approval, or if the Zoning Board of Adjustment has
approved the development plan, then the site-specific vesting plan will be
transmitted to the Town Council. The Town Council, after holding a legislative
public hearing, may approve, conditionally approve, or deny the application for
the site- specific vesting plan. The Town Council may approve a site-specific
vesting plan upon any terms and conditions that may reasonably be necessary to
protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
      (B)   Notice and Conduct of Public Hearings
         Public hearings on site-specific vesting plans shall be legislative
public hearings and shall be published and posted in accordance with the
general notice requirements of Section
3.1.6, and shall be conducted in accordance with the general provisions of
Section
3.1.7.
      (C)   Effect of Denial or Withdrawal of Application
         No application for a site-specific vesting plan covering the same
property will be considered until after a lapse of twelve (12) months from the
date of denial or withdrawal of the application. This twelve (12)-month
provision may be waived for good cause shown by a four-fifths (4/5) vote of the
Town Council.
   3.17.5   Exceptions
   The provisions of Section
3.17.2 shall not apply in the following instances:
      (A)   Where the property owner consents, in writing, to making the
development conform to the requirements of this Ordinance, or any amendment
thereto, which would make the development nonconforming;
      (B)   Where the Town Council finds, after notice and a quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearing, that natural or man-made hazards on or in the immediate
vicinity of the property, if uncorrected, would pose a serious threat to the
public health, safety, and welfare if the project were to proceed as
contemplated in the site-specific vesting plan;
      (C)   Where the Town Council finds, after notice and a quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearing, that the property owner or his or her representative
intentionally supplied inaccurate information or made material
misrepresentations which made a difference in the Town's approval of the site-
specific vesting plan;
      (D)   Where the state or federal government has enacted or promulgated a
law or regulation which precludes developing the property as contemplated in
the approved site-specific vesting plan, in which case the Town Council may, by
ordinance, modify the affected provisions of the approved plan upon finding,
after notice and a quasi- judicial evidentiary hearing, that the change in
state or federal law has a fundamental effect on the approved site-specific
vesting plan;
      (E)   Where the Town has compensated the property owner for all costs,
expenses, and other losses incurred by the property owner after approval of the
vested rights certificate, including but not limited to all fees paid in
consideration of financing, and all architectural, planning, marketing, legal,
and other consulting fees, together with interest as provided under G.S. 160D-
106, not including any diminution in the value of the property.
   3.17.6   Amendments to Approved Plan
      This Ordinance provides for situations in which the property owner or
developer may obtain Town approval for particular changes to a site-specific
vesting plan that the Town has already approved. The effect of such changes is
as follows:
      (A)   Amendments approved by Planning Director
         Where the change is an amendment to a development plan that may be
approved by the Planning Director under the terms of this Ordinance then
approval of the change shall have no effect on the vested rights period and
site specific vesting plan. The Director's approval of the proposed change
shall not be deemed to extend or renew the vested rights period.
      (B)   Changes Requiring Approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment
         Where the change is an amendment to a development plan that requires
the approval of the Zoning Board of Adjustment under the terms of this
Ordinance, then the property owner or developer must submit an application for
a new site specific vesting plan along with the application for approval of the
development plan change in order to extend or renew the vested rights period.
In no case shall the total period of vesting for any piece of property be
longer than five (5) years, no matter how many major changes are made to the
property. The new site specific vesting plan may be approved only in accordance
with the requirements of Section
3.17.4 above.
      (C)   Changes Requiring a Variance
         Where the change is one that requires a variance from the Zoning Board
of Adjustment, then the vested rights period set forth in Section
3.17.3 shall terminate immediately upon the Zoning Board of Adjustment's
approval of the variance.
   3.17.7   Provisions to Which Vesting Does Not Apply
      The establishment of a vested right for a site specific vesting plan
shall not preclude the Town from applying overlay zoning or other development
regulations which impose additional requirements but that do not affect the
allowable type or intensity of use, regulations governing nonconformities that
appear in
Chapter 10 of this Ordinance, or regulations that are general in nature and
apply to all property subject to development regulation by the Town, including
but not limited to building, fire, plumbing, electrical, and mechanical codes.
All other regulations shall become effective with respect to the property upon
the expiration or termination of the vested rights period set forth in Section
3.17.3.
   3.17.8   Statutory and Common Law Vested Rights; Owner-Initiated Annexation
      (A)   A person claiming a statutory or common law vested right may submit
information to substantiate that claim to the Planning Director, who shall make
an initial determination as to the existence of the vested right. The decision
of the Planning Director may be appealed as provided in Section
3.21. On appeal, the existence of the vested right shall be reviewed de novo.
In lieu of seeking a determination or pursuing an appeal, a person claiming a
vested right may bring an original civil action as provided by G.S. 160D-
1403.1.
      (B)   A petition for annexation filed with the Town under G.S. 160A-31 or
G.S. 160A-58.1 shall contain a signed statement declaring whether or not any
zoning vested right with respect to the properties subject to the petition has
been established under G.S. 160D-108 or 160D-108.1. A statement that declares
that no zoning vested right has been established, shall be binding on the
landowner and any such zoning vested right shall be terminated.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02,
6-13-13; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No.
2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.18   ADEQUATE PUBLIC SCHOOL FACILITIES (REPEALED 9/9/04)
   The repeal of this section (Adequate Public School Facilities) shall be
effective upon adoption and such repeal shall apply to applications for
approval of development plans that are submitted for approval by the Town after
the effective date of repeal unless the property for which development plan
approval is sought is subject to a zoning condition or a developer agreement
that requires compliance with this (the Adequate Public School Facilities)
ordinance. These properties/ planned developments include Cary Park (Rezoning
Case # 00-REZ-04), Glenkirk (02-REZ-15), Cameron Pond (02-REZ-27), Amberly (02-
REZ-05), Stonewater 02-REZ-08), Village at the Park (02-REZ-06), Huggins Glen -
currently know as The Battery (02-REZ-26), and Riggsbee Farm - currently known
as Stonecreek Village (02-REZ-23). If the property is subject to a developer
agreement or zoning condition or other approval requiring or contemplating
compliance, then such property shall be subject to the requirements of the
developer agreement or zoning approval which shall be interpreted in terms of
this ordinance as it exists immediately before repeal, unless such requirement
is modified or removed after review on a case by case basis.
(Ord. No. 04-011, 9-9-04; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.19   MINOR MODIFICATIONS
   3.19.1   Minor Modifications to Development and Zoning District Standards
      (A)   Applicability
         (1)   As part of the review and approval of any procedure set forth in
this
Chapter 3, an applicant may request a minor modification of any of the
development or zoning district standards that are listed in the following table
pursuant to the procedures described below. Specifics on allowable
modifications may be found in the associated text listed in the table. For
properties owned by the Town, the Planning Director shall review all requests
for minor modifications listed in the table.
         (2)   Review of a minor modification is limited to review of that
modification only. Consideration of a requested minor modification does not
change the applicable approval authority for the development plan as a whole.
         (3)   Development plans seeking to deviate beyond the scope of the
Minor Modification process are required to undergo the typical rezoning and/or
development plan review process or may request a variance, if applicable,
pursuant to Section
3.20. The Minor Modification process is not available for use in situations
when there is an existing nonconforming site or structure.
TABLE 3.19-1: MINOR MODIFICATIONS ALLOWED
Standard That May be Modified Decision-Making Body Modification Allowed (%)
TABLE 3.19-1: MINOR MODIFICATIONS ALLOWED
Standard That May be      Decision-Making Body       Modification Allowed (%)
Modified
Highway Corridor Buffer   Zoning Board of Adjustment
width [Section            *                          Up to 70
7.2.15]
Impervious surface
limitations within the
Swift Creek portion of    Zoning Board of Adjustment See Section
the Watershed Protection  *                          4.4.6(I)
Overlay [Section
4.4.6(I)]
Building setback
requirements (Sections
6.1 and                   Planning Director          15
6.2); building height
(Section
6.4)
Building setback
requirements (Sections    Zoning Board of Adjustment More than 15
6.1  and                  *
6.2)
Development and design
standards, numerical (
Chapter 7) (however,
modifications to
landscaping requirements  Planning Director          15
are addressed in Section
7.2.10 and modifications
to parking standards are
addressed in Section
7.8.2)
Development and design
standards, numerical (
Chapter 7) (however,
modifications to
landscaping requirements  Zoning Board of Adjustment 30
are addressed in Section  *
7.2.10 and modifications
to parking standards are
addressed in Section
7.8.2)
Development and design
standards, non-numerical
(
Chapter 7), limited
specifically to the
following LDO sections:   Planning Director          (not applicable)
7.2.8(A),
7.7.3(C),
7.8.2(G),
7.10.3, and
7.10.4.
Development and design
standards, non- numerical
(                         Zoning Board of Adjustment
Chapter 7), limited       *                          (not applicable)
specifically to the
following LDO section:
7.2.5
Subdivision design
standards, numerical,
excluding Standard
Specifications_and        Planning Director          15
Details and Section
8.1.4(A)(10)  (
Chapter 8)
Subdivision design
standards, numerical,
excluding Standard        Zoning Board of Adjustment
Specifications_and        *                          30
Details and Section
8.1.4(A)(10)  (
Chapter 8)
Required right-of-way     Transportation and         5% of their half of the
dedication, Section       Facilities Director        required street standard
8.1.4(A)(10)                                         width
Required right-of-way     Zoning Board of Adjustment More than 5% of their half
dedication, Section       *                          of the required street
8.1.4(A)(10)                                         standard width
*  For properties owned by the Town, the Planning Director shall review all
requests for minor modifications that would otherwise be reviewed by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment.
 
      (B)   Exceptions to Authority to Grant Minor Modifications
         In no circumstance shall any decision-making body approve a minor
modification that results in:
         (1)   An increase in overall project density;
         (2)   A change in permitted uses or mix of uses;
         (3)   [reserved];
         (4)   A deviation from the Use-Specific Standards, set forth in
Section
5.2; or
         (5)   A change in zoning conditions.
      (C)   Procedure
         (1)   Minor Modifications Approved by Planning Director or
Transportation and Facilities Director
            (a)   The Planning Director or Transportation and Facilities
Director may approve a minor modification allowed under this section at any
time prior to submittal of the staff report on an application to another
decision-making body, if a report is required, or prior to final decision, if
no report is required.
            (b)   Such modification shall be reviewed pursuant to criteria
found in the applicable Ordinance section for each modification. If no approval
criteria are present, the modification shall be approved if:
               1.   it otherwise meets all requirements of this Ordinance and
applicable Town specifications; and,
               2.   the applicant establishes that compliance with the
provision sought to be modified is not practicable due to physical site
constraints, such as topography, presence of stream buffers or other natural
features, or lot dimensions; or due to presence of existing development or
infrastructure; and,
               3.   the applicant establishes that the modification requested
represents the least deviation required to make compliance practicable.
            (c)   The Planning Director's decision on a request for minor
modification may be appealed to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
         (2)   Minor Modifications Approved by Zoning Board of Adjustment
            The Zoning Board of Adjustment may initiate or approve a minor
modification allowed under this section at any time before the applicable
approval authority takes action on a development application. The Zoning Board
of Adjustment may approve the minor modification only if it finds, after
conducting a quasi-judicial hearing, that the modification advances the goals
and purposes of this Ordinance and either results in less visual impact or more
effective environmental or open space preservation, or relieves practical
difficulties in developing a site. In determining if "practical difficulty"
exists, the factors set forth in Section
3.20.5, "Approval Criteria" (for Variances) shall be considered. In granting a
minor modification allowed under this section, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
may require conditions that will secure substantially the objectives of the
standard that is modified and that will substantially mitigate any potential
adverse impact on the environment or on adjacent properties, including but not
limited to additional landscaping or buffering. Requests for modifications that
exceed the percentages in
Table 3.19-1 shall be treated as requests for a variance.
         (3)   Noted on Pending Application
            Staff shall specify any approved minor modifications and the
justifications for such modifications on the pending development application
for which the modifications were sought.
   3.19.2   Minor Modifications to Approved Development Plans, Plats, and PDD,
MXD, and Conditional Use Zoning Districts
      (A)   Approved Development Plans or Plats
         (1)   The Planning Director may approve the following minor
modifications to plans or plats approved either through an administrative or
quasi-judicial process, provided that those changes meet the requirements of
this Ordinance:
            (a)   Approved Development Plans
            Changes to an approved development plan to allow:
               1.   The addition of mechanical or other incidental equipment
outside of an existing structure provided that this addition does not exceed
one percent (1%) of the existing building square footage or improved floor
area;
               2.   Alteration to building elevations;
               3.   Changes to the amount or layout of parking; or
               4.   Minor field alterations to accommodate physical site
conditions, including the relocation of buildings and the relocation or
substitution of landscape material.
            (b)   Approved Subdivision Plats
            Changes to an approved subdivision plat to allow:
               1.   Combination or recombination of existing platted lots so
that the total number of lots is not increased and the amended plat represents
the same general lot relationships as shown in the plat prior to amendment;
               2.   Changes to a plat that are the result of minor field
alterations to accommodate physical site conditions involving interior features
of the site design, including relocation of easements, utilities and
infrastructure, which represents the same general lot and easement
relationships, topography, landscaping, and minimum utility standards; or
               3.   Modification of any of the design standards or improvement
requirements set forth in Section
8.1 where necessary to make the approved subdivision plat conform to any Mixed-
Use Preliminary Development Plan, Planned Development District master land use
plan, or concept plan submitted as part of a conditional zoning that the Town
Council has approved for a property.
         (2)   Exceptions
         Any other proposed change to an approved plan or plat not listed above
shall be accomplished in the same manner as the original approval. In no
circumstance shall a modification be granted under this section that results
in:
            (a)   A change in overall project density by more than five (5)
percent;
            (b)   A change in permitted uses or mix of uses;
            (c)   An increase in building height beyond twenty (20) percent of
the structure's original height; or
            (d)   A change in a zoning condition.
         (3)   Approval Criteria; Procedure
         The Planning Director may approve a minor modification under this
section if all of the relevant criteria below have been met. If approved, the
Planning Director shall note the terms of the approved modification directly on
the amended plan and affix his or her signature and the date of approval.
            (a)   All changes shall conform to the minimum required standards
for the zoning district in which the property is located;
            (b)   All additions, alterations, and expansions shall be
compatible with existing or approved lots, easements, infrastructure, existing
or approved structures, and parking areas;
            (c)   Any additional required landscaping shall be comparable to
the approved plan and shall follow Town specifications and guidelines;
            (d)   The effect of the landscaping, buffers, or screening on the
site, or on the approved development plan shall not be diminished;
            (e)   The number of access points to public streets shall not be
increased or substantially relocated;
            (f)   The circulation pattern shall continue to provide for the
safe, controlled, and orderly flow of pedestrians and vehicles;
            (g)   The change will result in better or equal performance of the
overall objectives of the approved development plan and specific zoning
district classification;
            (h)   The change does not otherwise violate any provision of this
Ordinance, the Town Code, or other applicable laws; and
            (i)   The use and development of the property is otherwise in full
compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
      (B)   Approved PDD, MXD, or Conditional Use Zoning Districts
         (1)   Applicability
            (a)   The Planning Director may approve the following changes to
PDD master plans and conditions, MXD preliminary development plans and
conditions, or conditional use district concept plans or conditions using the
approval criteria of Section
3.19.2(A)(3):
               1.   Relocation of a road or intersection;
               2.   Minor field alterations to accommodate physical site
conditions involving interior features of the site design, including relocation
of the buildings or uses shown on an approved master plan, PDP, or concept
plan, which represents the same general building relationships, topography,
landscaping, and minimum utility standards; and
               3.   A reduction of intensity of use necessary to meet minimum
development standards of the LDO.
            (b)   In some cases, the ability to implement or strictly follow
zoning conditions can be problematic (i.e. conditions requiring specimen trees
to be preserved, but the trees have subsequently died due to natural causes
following the approval). In such cases, the Planning Director shall implement
the condition in a way that most closely meets its original intent. These
situations include, but are not limited to:
               1.   Undisturbed buffers/streetscapes which may be beyond the
applicant’s ability to implement due to road widenings, utility relocation,
driveways and/or clear sight distance areas;
               2.   Specimen or champion trees required to be preserved, but
which have been removed due to natural consequences or infrastructure
relocation.
               The Director may decide to permit re-vegetation when such
conditions exist depending upon the extent of the disturbance, the size and
quality of the existing vegetation remaining, and the long term viability/
benefit of retaining the existing vegetation versus re-forestation.
         (2)   Any other proposed change not listed above shall be accomplished
in the same manner as the original zoning approval. In no circumstance shall a
modification be granted under this section that results in:
            (a)   A change in overall project density;
            (b)   A change in permitted uses or mix of uses;
            (c)   An increase in building height beyond twenty (20) percent of
the structure's original height;
            (d)   A reduction in buffer width or buffer standards adjacent to
residential development;
            (e)   A change to the overall concept of the plan; or
            (f)   A change in any other zoning condition.
   3.19.3   Minor Building Encroachments into Required Setbacks
   The Planning Director may approve encroachments of a principal building or
accessory structure into any required setback up to a maximum of fifteen
percent (15%) of the applicable required setback, provided that:
      (A)   The request involves encroachment into two (2) or fewer required
setbacks per lot; and
      (B)   The encroachment is a result of a construction error by the
property owner or a person acting on his or her behalf whether discovered
during the construction process or afterwards, or special circumstances or
conditions exist (e.g., narrowness, exceptional topographic conditions, or the
shape of the property) that are not common to other properties that are
similarly situated.
      (C)   The encroachment, if approved, will not pose substantial danger to
public health and safety.
      In addition, the Director may grant additional encroachments for
structures that were constructed prior to May 13, 1999 (Implementation Date of
Required Foundation Surveys) which do not meet the setback and other
requirements of this Ordinance provided that Item (B) is met above and building
permits were obtained and approved for the structure.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06;
Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-06, 8-13-09; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01,
1-11-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord. No.
2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-07, 12-19-13; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-
21-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No.
2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-
10-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-04, 12-12-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No.
2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22)
3.20   VARIANCES
   3.20.1   Purpose and Scope
      The variance process is intended to provide limited relief from the
requirements of this Ordinance in those cases where strict application of a
particular requirement will create an unnecessary hardship. It is not intended
that variances be granted merely to remove inconveniences or financial burdens
that the requirements of this Ordinance may impose on property owners in
general. Rather, it is intended to provide relief where a hardship results from
conditions peculiar to the property itself. State and/or federal laws or
requirements may not be varied by the Town.
   3.20.2   Provisions From Which Variances Are Allowed
      The following standards of this Ordinance are eligible for a variance:
      (A)   Any of the development or zoning district standards listed in
Table 3.19-1 or any building encroachment into a required setback, but only
when the Minor Modification procedures in Section
3.19 are unable to address the hardship; and,
      (B)   Any other provision of this Ordinance, so long as the Ordinance
does not provide a mechanism for modification or waiver of the provision, and
the requested variance would not constitute a use variance as further described
in Section
3.20.4(E).
   3.20.3   Application Requirements; Determination of Completeness
      (A)   Persons Authorized to File Applications
         An application for a variance may be filed only by the owner of the
land affected by the variance; an agent, lessee, or contract purchaser
specifically authorized by the owner to file such application; or any unit of
government that is not the owner of the lot but proposes to acquire the lot by
purchase, gift, or condemnation.
      (B)   Pre-Application Conference
         Before filing a variance application, the applicant shall request a
pre-application conference with the Planning Department. See Section
3.1.5.
      (C)   Application Filing
         An application for a variance shall be filed with the Planning
Department. Once the application is complete, the Planning Department shall
schedule the application for consideration at a public hearing before the
Zoning Board of Adjustment, and shall transmit to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment all applications and other records pertaining to such variance prior
to the hearing on the application.
   3.20.4   Action by the Zoning Board of Adjustment
      (A)   Upon receiving the application materials from the Planning
Department, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hold a quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearing on the proposed variance. Notice of the hearing shall be
provided and the hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7.
      (B)   In considering the application, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall review the application materials, the approval criteria of Section
3.20.5, and all testimony and evidence received at the hearing.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7667.jpg]
Variances
      (C)   After conducting the hearing, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may:
deny the application; conduct an additional hearing on the application; or
grant the requested variance.
      (D)   In granting any variance, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may attach
such conditions to the approval as it deems necessary and appropriate to
satisfy the criteria set forth in Section
3.20.5, to reduce or minimize any injurious effect of such variance upon other
property in the neighborhood, and to ensure compliance with other terms of this
Ordinance provided such conditions are reasonably related to the variance.
      (E)   Under no circumstances shall the Zoning Board of Adjustment grant a
variance to allow a use not permitted, or a use expressly or by implication
prohibited under the terms of this Ordinance for the zone district containing
the property for which the variance is sought.
      (F)   Under no circumstances shall the Board of Adjustment grant a
variance from any written conditions attached to approval of a Special Use
(Section
3.8). Development standards for development plans (Section
3.9) that were approved by Town Council or through a quasi-judicial process but
could, by current standards, be approved administratively may be eligible for a
variance.
      (G)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment's decision shall be based upon
competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record. The decision shall
be reduced to writing and reflect the Board's determination of contested facts
and their application to the approval criteria of Section
3.20.5. The written decision shall be approved by the Board and signed by the
Chair of the Board or his designee. The decision is effective upon filing the
written decision with the Planning Department.
      (H)   The decision shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic
mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant, property owner, and to any
person who has submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date the
decision becomes effective. The person required to provide notice shall certify
that proper notice has been made.
   3.20.5   Approval Criteria
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may approve the variance only if it finds
that all of the criteria below have been met:
      (A)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (B)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardship resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance.
      (C)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
      (D)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the Ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
   3.20.6   Effect of Approval or Denial
      (A)   After the Zoning Board of Adjustment approves a variance, the
applicant shall follow the procedures set forth in this
Chapter 3 for the approval of all permits, certificates, and other approvals
required in order to proceed with development of the property. All orders,
decisions, determinations, and interpretations made by administrative officers
under those procedures shall be consistent with the variance granted by the
Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (B)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall refuse to hear a variance
request that has been previously denied, unless it finds that there have been
substantial changes in the conditions or circumstances relating to the matter.
   3.20.7   [Reserved]
   3.20.8   Appeal
   Every decision on a request for a variance shall be subject to review by the
superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari pursuant to G.S.
160D-1402. A petition for review shall be filed with the clerk of Superior
Court by the later of thirty (30) days after the decision is effective or after
the date a written copy of the decision is given in accordance with Section
3.20.4(H). When first- class mail is used to deliver notice, three (3) days
shall be added to the time to file the petition.
(Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-02, 4-
14-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No.
2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-
10-19; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.21   APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS
   3.21.1   Purpose and Scope
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hear appeals as provided below, and the
duties of the Town Council in connection with this Ordinance shall not include
the hearing or passing upon disputed questions that may arise in connection
with the enforcement thereof, unless otherwise specifically required by this
Ordinance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-51919.png]
 
   3.21.2   Decisions That May Be Appealed
   An appeal may be brought by the Town or any person who has standing under
G.S. 160D-1402(c) from any decision made by an administrative official charged
with implementation, administration, or enforcement of the Land Development
Ordinance. The official making an administrative decision under this Ordinance
shall give written notice of the determination made to the owner of the
property who is the subject of the determination and to the party who sought
the determination, if different from the owner. The written notice shall be
delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The
notice shall be delivered to the last address listed for the owner of the
affected property on the county tax abstract and to the address provided in the
application or request for a determination if the party seeking the
determination is different from the owner. As used in this section,
"determination" includes any written, final, and binding order, requirement, or
determination regarding an administrative decision. An appeal may also be taken
by any aggrieved party from the Historic Preservation Commission's action in
granting or denying any Certificate of Appropriateness. Appeal shall be made to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment, unless this Ordinance requires that the appeal
be made to the Town Council.
   3.21.3   Filing of Appeal; Effect of Filing
      (A)   An application for an appeal shall be filed with the Planning
Director. The notice of appeal shall state the grounds for the appeal. Once the
application is complete, the Planning Department shall schedule the appeal for
consideration at a hearing before the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (B)   The official who made the decision shall give written notice to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the decision and to the party who
sought the decision, if different from the owner. The written notice shall be
delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail.
      (C)   The owner or other party shall have thirty (30) days from receipt
of the written notice of the decision within which to file an appeal. Any other
person with standing to appeal shall have thirty (30) days from receipt of any
source or actual or constructive notice of the decision within which to file
appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, notice given by first-class
mail is deemed received on the third business day following deposit of the
notice for mailing with the United States Postal Service. Appeals must be
received before 5:00 p.m. EST on the due date to be timely.
      (D)   It shall be conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the decision from the date a sign, no
greater than five (5) square feet in area, containing the words "Zoning
Decision" or "Subdivision Decision" in letters at least six (6) inches high and
identifying the means to contact the Planning Department for information about
the decision is prominently posted on the property that is the subject of the
decision, provided the sign remains on the property for at least ten (10) days.
Posting of signs is not the only form of constructive notice. Any such posting
shall be the responsibility of the landowner or applicant, although the Town
may elect to post such sign after any decision is made. If the landowner or
applicant posts such sign, verification of the posting in the form of a
certification under oath made by the applicant or landowner shall be provided
to the official who made the decision.
      (E)   The official who made the decision or the person currently
occupying that position, if the decision maker is no longer employed by the
local government, shall be present at the evidentiary hearing as a witness and
shall transmit to the Board all documents and exhibits constituting the record
upon which the action appealed from is taken. The official shall also provide a
copy of the record to the appellant and to the owner of the property that is
the subject of the appeal if the appellant is not the owner.
      (F)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
during the pendency of the appeal to the board of adjustment and any subsequent
appeal in accordance with G.S. 160D-1402 or during the pendency of any civil
proceeding authorized by law or appeals therefrom unless the official who made
the decision certifies to the Board after notice of appeal has been filed that
because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril
to life or property or because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay
would seriously interfere with enforcement of the Ordinance. In that case,
enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order,
which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the
appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited hearing of the
appeal, and the Board shall meet to hear the appeal within fifteen (15) days
after such a request is filed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, appeals of
decisions granting a permit or otherwise affirming that a proposed use of
property is consistent with the ordinance shall not stay the further review of
an application for permits or permissions to use such property; in these
situations the appellant may request and the Board may grant a stay of a final
decision of permit applications or building permits affected by the issued
being appealed.
      (G)   The parties to an appeal may agree to mediation or other forms of
alternative dispute resolution.
   3.21.4   Action by the Zoning Board of Adjustment
      (A)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hold a quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearing on the appeal and shall decide the appeal upon a majority
vote of the members within a reasonable time, subject to the provisions of
Section
3.21.3(F). Notice of the hearing shall be provided and the hearing shall be
conducted in accordance with Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7. The official who made the decision, or the person currently occupying
that position if the decision-maker is no longer employed by the Town, shall be
present at the hearing as a witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the
hearing to matters stated in the notice of appeal. If any party or the Town
would be unduly prejudiced by the presentation of matters not presented in the
notice of appeal, the Board shall continue the hearing.
      (B)   Either at the hearing or a subsequent meeting, the Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall adopt a written resolution reversing or affirming, wholly or
partly, or modifying the decision appealed from and shall make any order,
requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made. In reversing,
affirming, or modifying the decision, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have
all relevant powers of the administrative officer from whom the appeal is
taken.
      (C)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall not reverse or modify the
decision unless it finds that the administrative officer erred in the
application or interpretation of the terms of this Ordinance or related
policies adopted by the Town.
      (D)   When hearing an appeal pursuant to G.S. 160D-947(e) (certificate of
appropriateness, historic district) or any other appeal in the nature of
certiorari, the hearing shall be based on the record below and the scope of
review shall be as provided in G.S. 160D-1402(j).
      (E)   When hearing an appeal regarding a civil penalty amount, in
determining the penalty or fine, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall consider
the following:
         (1)    The gravity of the violation;
         (2)    Any action taken by the violator to correct the violation;
         (3)    The cost of the action to correct the violation; and
         (4)    Any previous violation committed by the violator, on the same
or different site.
      (F)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment's decision shall be based upon
competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record. The decision shall
be reduced to writing and reflect the Board's determination of contested facts
and their application to the applicable standards. The written decision shall
be approved by the Board and signed by the Chair of the Board or his designee.
The decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the Planning
Department.
      (G)   The decision shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic
mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant, property owner, and to any
person who has submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date the
decision becomes effective. The person required to provide notice shall certify
that proper notice has been made.
   3.21.5   Effect of Reversal or Modification
   In the event that the Zoning Board of Adjustment reverses or modifies the
decision, all subsequent actions taken by administrative officers with regard
to the subject matter shall be in accordance with the reversal or modification
granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   3.21.6   Appeal from Zoning Board of Adjustment
      Any appeal from a decision of the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be to
the Superior Court for the applicable county by petition for a writ of
certiorari. Any such petition to the Superior Court shall be filed with the
Court Clerk by the later of thirty (30) days after the date the decision of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment is effective, or after a written copy of the
decision is given in accordance with Section
3.21.5(G). When first-class mail is used to deliver notice, three (3) days
shall be added to the time to file the petition.
(Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-
07; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No.
2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-02, 6-26-
14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No.
2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
3.22   RESERVED
3.23   RESERVED
3.24   REIMBURSEMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS
   3.24.1   Reimbursement Agreements
      (A)   Authority
      This Ordinance sets forth the authority for and procedures and terms
under which the Town Manager may negotiate and approve reimbursement agreements
and intersection and roadway improvement agreements. Additional authority for
such agreements and fee credits may exist elsewhere, and this is meant to be
supplementary to such authority. This Ordinance is authorized by Charter, App.
2.11, G.S. 160A-309, G.S. 160A-320 and G.S. 160A-499. Town approval authority
for agreements under this section shall be governed by general Town contracting
authorizations and delegations.
      (B)   Municipal Infrastructure Reimbursement Agreements
      The Town Manager may approve municipal infrastructure reimbursement
agreements with private developers and property owners for the design and
construction of municipal infrastructure that is included on the Town's capital
improvement plan and serves the developer or property owner. For the purpose of
this Ordinance, municipal infrastructure includes, without limitation, water
mains, sanitary sewer lines, lift stations, stormwater lines, streets, curb and
gutter, sidewalks, traffic control devices, and other associated facilities.
The Town Manager, or designee, is authorized to negotiate municipal
infrastructure reimbursement agreements with private developers and property
owners in accordance with this Ordinance and applicable policies and
procedures. In negotiating such agreements, the Town Manager, or designee,
shall determine that the private developer or property owner shall comply with
the requirements of G.S. 143-129 and G.S. 143-128.2 relating to public
advertising and bid opening requirements which would be applicable if the
construction contract had been awarded by the Town. Reimbursements may be paid
from any lawful source. [Authority App. 2.11 and G.S. 160A-499]
      (C)   Public Enterprise Reimbursement Agreements
      The Town Manager may approve public enterprise reimbursement agreements
with a developer or property owner or a private party under contract with such
developer or property owner, for the design and construction of public
enterprise improvements that are in addition to those required by the Town's
land development regulations and are adjacent or ancillary to a private land
development project. The Town Manager, or designee, is authorized to negotiate
public enterprise reimbursement agreements with a developer or property owner
in accordance with this Ordinance and applicable policies and procedures. In
negotiating such agreements, the Town Manager, or designee, shall determine
that (a) the public cost will not exceed the estimated cost of providing for
such improvements through either eligible force account qualified labor or
through a public contract let pursuant to G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8 and (b)
the coordination of separately constructed improvements would be impracticable.
Such intersection and roadway improvement agreements shall not be subject to
G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8, if the public cost will not exceed two hundred
fifty thousand dollars ($250,000). [Such improvements may be constructed on
property owned by the developer or property owner or by the Town.] [Authority
G.S. 160A-320]
      (D)   Intersection and Roadway Improvement Agreements
         The Town Manager may approve intersection and roadway improvement
agreements with a developer or property owner, or with a private party who is
under contract with the developer or property owner, for public intersection or
roadway improvements that are adjacent or ancillary to a private land
development project. The Town Manager, or designee, is authorized to negotiate
intersection and roadway improvement agreements with a developer or property
owner (or private party under contract with the developer or property owner) in
accordance with this Ordinance and applicable policies and procedures. In
negotiating such agreements, the Town Manager, or designee, shall determine
that (a) the public cost will not exceed the estimated cost of providing for
such improvements through either eligible force account qualified labor or
through a public contract let pursuant to G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8, and (b)
the coordination of separately constructed public intersection or roadway
improvements would be impracticable. Such intersection and roadway improvement
agreements shall not be subject to G.S. Chapter 143, Article 8, if the public
cost will not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars ($250,000). [Authority
G.S. 160A-309].
   3.24.2   Development Agreements
      The Town may enter into development agreements authorized by G.S. 160D,
Article 10. Such agreements are subject to review and approval by the Town
Council. A public hearing shall be conducted on any proposed development
agreement. Published, written, and posted notice of the public hearing shall be
provided in accordance with Section
3.1.6 and applicable state law.
(Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2021-
LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22)
3.25   REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION
   3.25.1   Authority and Purpose
   The Zoning Board of Adjustment is authorized to grant reasonable
accommodations under the Federal Fair Housing Act for the circumstances set
forth in this section.
   3.25.2   Application Requirements; Determination of Completeness
      (A)   Persons Authorized to File Applications
         An application for a reasonable accommodation may be filed only by the
owner of the land affected by the reasonable accommodation; an agent, lessee,
or contract purchaser specifically authorized by the owner to file such
application; or any unit of government that is not the owner of the lot but
proposes to acquire the lot by purchase, gift, or condemnation.
      (B)   Pre-Application Conference
         Before filing an application for a reasonable accommodation, the
applicant may request a pre-application conference with the Planning
Department. See Section
3.1.5.
      (C)   Application Filing
         An application for a reasonable accommodation shall be filed with the
Planning Department. No filing fee is required for such application. Once the
application is complete, the Planning Department shall schedule the application
for consideration at a hearing before the Zoning Board of Adjustment, and shall
transmit to the Zoning Board of Adjustment all applications and other records
pertaining to such reasonable accommodation prior to the hearing on the
application.
   3.25.3   Action by the Zoning Board of Adjustment
      (A)   Upon receiving the application materials from the Planning
Department, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall hold a quasi-judicial
evidentiary hearing on the proposed reasonable accommodation and shall decide
the request upon a majority vote of the members within a reasonable time.
Notice of the hearing shall be provided and the hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7.
      (B)   In considering the application, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
shall review the application materials, the approval criteria of Section
3.25.4, and all testimony and evidence received at the hearing.
      (C)   After conducting the hearing, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may:
deny the application; conduct an additional hearing on the application; or
grant the requested reasonable accommodation.
      (D)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment's decision shall be based upon
competent, material, and substantial evidence in the record. The decision shall
be reduced to writing and reflect the Board's determination of contested facts
and their application to the applicable standards. The written decision shall
be approved by the Board and signed by the Chair of the Board or his designee.
The decision is effective upon filing the written decision with the Planning
Department.
      (E)   The decision shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic
mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant, property owner, and to any
person who has submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date the
decision becomes effective. The person required to provide notice shall certify
that proper notice has been made.
   3.25.4   Approval Criteria
      The Board of Adjustment shall grant a reasonable accommodation to any
provision of this ordinance if the Board finds by a greater weight of the
evidence that the proposed reasonable accommodation is determined to be both
reasonable and necessary, in accordance with the following:
      (A)   "Reasonable"
         An accommodation will be determined to be reasonable if it would not
undermine the legitimate purposes and effects of existing zoning regulations,
and if it will not impose significant financial and administrative burdens upon
the Town and/or constitute a substantial or fundamental alteration of the
Town's ordinance provisions; and
      (B)   "Necessary"
         An accommodation will be determined to be necessary if it would
provide direct or meaningful therapeutic amelioration of the affects of the
particular disability or handicap, and would afford handicapped or disabled
persons equal opportunity to enjoy and use housing in residential districts in
the Town.
   3.25.5   Effect of Approval or Denial
      (A)   After the Zoning Board of Adjustment approves a reasonable
accommodation, the applicant shall follow the procedures set forth in this
Chapter 3 for the approval of any permits, certificates, and other approvals
required in order to proceed with development or use of the property. All
orders, decisions, determinations, and interpretations made by administrative
officers under those procedures shall be consistent with the reasonable
accommodation granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (B)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall refuse to hear a reasonable
accommodation request that has been previously denied, unless it finds that
there have been substantial changes in the conditions or circumstances relating
to the matter.
   3.25.6   [Reserved]
   3.25.7   Appeal
      Any appeal from the decision of the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be
to the Superior Court for the applicable county by petition for a writ of
certiorari. Any such petition to the Superior Court shall be filed with the
court clerk by the later of thirty (30) days after the date the decision of the
Zoning Board of Adjustment is effective, or after the date a written copy of
the decision is given in accordance with Section
3.25.3(E). When first-class mail is used to deliver notice, three (3) days
shall be added to the time to file the petition.
(Ord. No. 12-LDO-01, passed 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No.
2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-
24-21)
3.26   ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT
   3.26.1   Applicability
      A Zoning Compliance Permit shall be required prior to operation of
certain permitted principal or accessory uses as set forth in Tables
5.1-1,
5.1-2 or
5.1-3. These uses may be subject to use-specific standards which require
approval procedures, research, monitoring, or other review to ensure compliance
with such standards, including separation between the proposed use and another
use. It shall be unlawful to operate these uses until the Planning Director has
issued a zoning compliance permit.
   3.26.2   Approval Procedures
      (A)   Submittal
         Applications for a zoning compliance permit shall be submitted to the
Planning Director. The Planning Director shall prescribe the form(s) on which
such applications are made, and shall prescribe any material that may
reasonably be required to determine compliance with this Ordinance. No
application shall be accepted by the Planning Director unless it complies with
such submittal requirements. Applications that are not complete shall be
returned to the applicant with notation of deficiencies.
      (B)   Planning Director Decision
         The Planning Director shall take final action on the application based
on compliance with the use-specific standards of Section
5.2 applicable to the proposed use, as well as other applicable provisions of
this Ordinance.
      (C)   Actions Subsequent to Decision
         In the case of approval, the Planning Director shall issue the zoning
compliance permit. In the case of denial of an application, the Planning
Director shall notify the applicant of the reasons for such denial and the
applicant may appeal the decision of the Planning Director pursuant to Section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
   3.26.3   Additional Provisions Applicable to Specific Uses
      (A)   Group Homes and Family Care Home
         In addition to or as an alternative to the option to appeal the
decision of the Planning Director per Section
3.26.2(C), the applicant may request approval of a reasonable accommodation by
the Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to Section
3.25 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 12-LDO-01, passed 2-23-12; Ord. No. 13-LDO-01, passed 2-13-13; Ord.
No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15)
3.27   HISTORIC PRESERVATION
   3.27.1   Designation of Historic Districts/Historic Landmarks
      The historical heritage of the Town of Cary is a valuable and important
asset. By designating historic districts and landmarks, the Town of Cary seeks
to safeguard the heritage of the town by preserving districts and landmarks
therein that embody important elements of its culture, history, architectural
history, or pre-history; to promote the use and conservation of such districts
and landmarks for the education, pleasure, and enrichment of the residents of
the town, the County and the State as a whole; and to conserve the value of
buildings and land and promote the general welfare of its citizens. The Town
Manager or designee shall appoint staff who will oversee the historic
preservation program and serve as liaison to the Historic Preservation
Commission.
      (A)   Historic District Designation
         (1)   Historic Districts Should Be Areas of Special Significance
            Historic district overlay zoning may from time to time be
designated, amended, or repealed; provided, however, that no district shall be
recommended for designation unless it is deemed to be of special significance
in terms of its historical, prehistoric, architectural or cultural importance.
Such district must also possess integrity of design, setting, materials,
feeling and/or association.
         (2)   Historic District Overlay Zoning and Other Zonings Distinguished
            Historic district overlays are established as districts which
overlay other zoning districts and include additional development requirements.
All uses permitted in the underlying zoning district, whether by right or as a
special use, shall be permitted in the historic district.
         (3)   Application
            An application for the designation of properties as a historic
district may be submitted by any of the following:
            (a)   The Historic Preservation Commission;
            (b)   The Town Council;
            (c)   The Planning and Zoning Board; and/or
            (d)   The Planning Department.
         (4)   Required Application Information
            Applications shall be filed with staff. Each application for
designation as a historic district shall be accompanied by a sketch plan that
describes the boundaries of the proposed district. An investigation and report,
including current electronic images of properties in the proposed district,
that describes the particular historical, pre-historical, architectural, or
special character of the buildings, structures, features, sites or surroundings
included in the proposed district must also accompany the application.
         (5)   Opportunity for Comment From the North Carolina Department of
Natural and Cultural Resources
            No district shall be designated, amended, or repealed until the
following has occurred:
            (a)   Staff shall forward the application and completed report to
the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources with a written request for
analysis of and recommendations concerning the application, report, and
description of proposed boundaries ("the Analysis").
            (b)   If the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources does not
make its Analysis and submit its comments to the Town Council within thirty
(30) calendar days following receipt of the report, the Town shall be relieved
of any responsibility for awaiting the Analysis, and the Town Council may at
any time thereafter take any necessary action to adopt or amend its zoning
ordinance.
         (6)   Other Reviews
            The Historic Preservation Commission will review and provide
recommendations concerning the report. The Town Council may also, in its
discretion, refer the report and the proposed historic district boundaries to
any other interested body for its recommendations prior to taking action to
amend the zoning map.
         (7)   Action
            Upon receipt of comments and recommendations pursuant to this
subsection, the Town may initiate the process to create a Historic Preservation
Overlay zoning district.
         (8)   Changes in Boundaries
            With respect to any changes in the boundaries of a historic
district after its initial establishment, the investigative studies and reports
required by subdivision (4) of subsection (A) of this section shall be prepared
by the Historic Preservation Commission, and shall be referred to the Planning
and Zoning Board for a finding of consistency with the Comprehensive Plan
according to procedures set forth in Section
3.4.1 of this Ordinance. Changes in the boundaries of a historic district shall
also be submitted to the Department of Cultural Resources in accordance with
the provisions of subdivision (5) of subsection (A) of this section.
      (B)   Historic Landmark Designation
         (1)   Historic Landmarks Should Be of Special Significance
            Town Council may adopt and from time to time amend or repeal an
ordinance designating one (1) or more historic landmarks. No property shall be
recommended for designation as a landmark unless it is deemed and found by the
Historic Preservation Commission to be of special significance in terms of its
historical, prehistoric, architectural or cultural importance, and to possess
integrity of design, setting, workmanship, materials, feeling and/or
association.
         (2)   Inventory of Possible Landmarks
            As a guide for the identification and evaluation of landmarks, the
Historic Preservation Commission shall maintain an inventory of properties of
historical, architectural, and cultural significance within the land
development jurisdiction of the town.
         (3)   Application
            An application for the designation of a property as a historic
landmark may be submitted to staff by any of the following:
            (a)   The Historic Preservation Commission
            (b)   The Town Council
            (c)   The Planning Department; and/or
            (d)   Any resident or property owner within the zoning jurisdiction
of the town.
            (e)   Any resident or property owner within the zoning jurisdiction
of the town.
         (4)   Required Application Information
            Applications shall be filed with staff. Each application shall be
accompanied by a sketch plan that describes the boundaries of the proposed
landmark, electronic images of building elevations for each building proposed
for designation and a statement from the property owner indicating consent to
the filing of the application. A report shall also be prepared on the historic,
architectural, pre-historical, educational or special character of each
building, structure, site or object proposed for designation and must accompany
the application.
         (5)   Opportunity for Comment from the Department of Natural and
Cultural Resources
            No landmark shall be designated, amended, or repealed until the
following has occurred:
            (a)   Staff shall forward the application and completed report to
the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources with a written request to
review and comment upon the substance and effect of the designation ("the
Review").
            (b)   If the Department of Natural and Cultural Resources does not
submit its comments or recommendation to the Historic Preservation Commission
within thirty (30) days following receipt of the investigation and report, the
Historic Preservation Commission and the Town Council shall be relieved of any
responsibility to consider such comments.
         (6)   Creation of Ordinance for Designation
            (a)   Staff, with the assistance of the Legal Department, shall
draft all ordinances for the designation of property as a historic landmark.
            (b)   The ordinance shall describe the property designated in the
ordinance, the name or names of the owner or owners of the property, those
elements of the property that are integral to its historical, architectural or
pre-historical value, including the land area of the property so designated,
and any other information the Town Council deems necessary.
            (c)   The ordinance shall specify the interior features to be
reviewed pursuant to Section
3.27.2 and the specific nature of the Historic Preservation Commission's
jurisdiction over the interior, if such jurisdiction has been consented to by
the property owner.
         (7)   Public Hearing by the Historic Preservation Commission
            The Historic Preservation Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the proposed ordinance. Following the public hearing, the Historic Preservation
Commission shall make a recommendation to the Town Council whether to approve
or deny the proposed designation. No property shall be recommended for
designation as a landmark unless it is deemed and found by the Historic
Preservation Commission to be of special significance in terms of its
historical, prehistoric, architectural or cultural importance, and to possess
integrity of design, setting, materials, feeling and/or association.
         (8)   Public Hearing by the Town Council
            After receiving the recommendation of the Historic Preservation
Commission, the Town Council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed
ordinance. Following the public hearing, the Town Council may adopt the
ordinance as proposed, adopt the ordinance with any amendments it deems
necessary, or reject the proposed ordinance.
         (9)   Post-Adoption Procedures
            (a)   Upon adoption of the ordinance, the owners and occupants of
each landmark shall be given written notification of such designation insofar
as reasonable diligence permits.
            (b)   One copy of the ordinance and all amendments thereto shall be
filed by the Historic Preservation Commission in the offices of the register of
deeds of the county in which the landmark is located.
            (c)   A second copy of the ordinance and all amendments thereto
shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk and be made available for
public inspection at any reasonable time.
            (d)   A third copy of the ordinance and any amendments thereto
shall be given to the building inspector for the town.
            (e)   The fact that a building, structure, site or area has been
designated a landmark shall be clearly indicated on all tax maps maintained by
Wake County for such period as the designation remains in effect.
            (f)   Upon adoption of the landmark ordinance or any amendments
thereto, the Historic Preservation Commission shall give notice thereof to the
tax supervisor of the county in which the property is located, and the
designation and any recorded restrictions upon the property limiting its use
for preservation purposes shall be considered by the tax supervisor in
appraising it for tax purposes.
         (10)   Amendments
            Any amendment to an ordinance designating a historic landmark shall
be made pursuant to the procedures of this subsection (B).
   3.27.2   Certificates of Appropriateness
      (A)   Certificate of Appropriateness Required
         After the designation of a landmark or a historic district, no
exterior portion of any building or other structure (including masonry walls,
fences, light fixtures, steps and pavement, or other appurtenant features), nor
any above-ground utility structure nor any type of outdoor advertising sign
shall be erected, altered, restored, moved, or demolished on such landmark or
within such district until after an application for a certificate of
appropriateness as to exterior features has been submitted to and approved by
the Historic Preservation Commission. Such a certificate is required to be
issued by the Historic Preservation Commission prior to the issuance of a
building permit or other permit granted for the purposes of constructing,
altering, moving or demolishing structures. A certificate of appropriateness
shall be required whether or not a building or other permit is required, and
may be issued subject to reasonable conditions necessary to carry out the
purposes of G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, a certificate of appropriateness for minor works may be reviewed and
approved as further described in subsection (B) below.
         (1)   Applicability to State of North Carolina
            The State of North Carolina (including its agencies, political
subdivisions and instrumentalities) and the Town of Cary shall be required to
obtain a certificate of appropriateness for construction, alteration, moving or
demolition within a historic district or of designated landmarks; provided,
however, that this Section
3.27.2 shall not apply to interiors of buildings or structures owned by the
State of North Carolina. The State and its agencies shall have a right of
appeal to the North Carolina Historical Commission pursuant to the provisions
of G.S. 160D-947(e).
         (2)   Exterior Features Defined
            For purposes of this Section
3.27.2, "exterior features" shall include the architectural style, general
design, and general arrangement of the exterior of a building or other
structure, including the kind and texture of the building material, the size
and scale of the building, and the type and style of all windows, doors, light
fixtures, signs and other appurtenant features.
         (3)   Jurisdiction Over Interior Features
            The jurisdiction of the Commission over interior spaces shall be
limited to specific interior features of architectural, artistic, or historical
significance in publicly owned landmarks; and of privately owned landmarks for
which consent for interior review has been given by the owners. Said consent of
an owner for interior review shall bind future owners and/or successors in
title, provided such consent has been filed in the Register of Deeds office of
the county in which the property is located and indexed according to the name
of the owner of the property in the grantor and grantee indexes. The Landmark
Designation shall specify the interior features to be reviewed and the specific
nature of the Historic Preservation Commission's jurisdiction over the
interior.
         (4)   Certain Changes Not Prohibited
            Nothing in this Section
3.27.2 shall be construed to prevent the ordinary maintenance or repair of any
exterior architectural feature in a historic district or of a landmark which
does not involve a change in design, materials, or appearance thereof, nor to
prevent ordinary maintenance or repair of streets, sidewalks, pavement
markings, street signs, or traffic signs. Nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent a property owner from making any use of his or her property that is not
prohibited by other law or to prevent (a) the maintenance, or (b) in the event
of an emergency, the immediate restoration of any existing above-ground utility
structure without approval by the Historic Preservation Commission.
         (5)   Enforcement and Remedies
            Compliance with the terms of the certificate of appropriateness
shall be enforced pursuant to the procedures of
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance. Failure to apply for a certificate when one is
required, or to comply with a certificate once issued, shall be a violation of
this Ordinance. An application for a certificate of appropriateness submitted
after work has been initiated must be reviewed and approved by the Commission.
      (B)   Certificate of Appropriateness - Minor Works (Minor COA)
         (1)   Minor COA Defined
            Minor works are those exterior changes that do not involve
substantial alterations, additions or removals that could impair the integrity
of the property and/or district as a whole. Such minor works shall be limited
to those listed below:
            (a)   Alteration or additions to existing accessory buildings/
outbuildings.
            (b)   Removal of accessory buildings/outbuildings which are not
architecturally or historically significant.
            (c)   Alteration/addition/removal of architectural details.
            (d)   Alteration/addition/removal of awnings, canopies, or
shutters.
            (e)   Alteration/addition/removal of existing decks.
            (f)   Alteration/removal of existing doors.
            (g)   Addition or installation of new doors, including storm doors.
            (h)   Alteration/addition to/removal of existing driveways.
            (i)   Construction of new driveways.
            (j)   Addition/alteration/removal of existing fences or walls.
            (k)   Construction of new fences and walls.
            (l)   Alteration of exposed foundations.
            (m)   Installation or removal of gutters and/or downspouts.
            (n)   Removal or significant pruning of trees eight (8) inches or
greater in diameter, measured four and one-half (4 ½) feet above ground level.
            (o)   Removal of dead, diseased, or dangerous trees.
            (p)   Installation/alteration/removal of exterior lighting.
            (q)   Installation of window air conditioners.
            (r)   Painting when there is a change in color.
            (s)   Alteration/addition/removal of existing parking lots.
            (t)   Alteration/addition/removal of existing patios.
            (u)   Construction of new patios.
            (v)   Change in roofing materials.
            (w)   Installation of satellite dishes and/or television antennae.
            (x)   Alteration/addition of exterior building surfaces.
            (y)   Installation/removal of signs.
            (z)   Alteration/construction/removal of exterior stairs and steps.
            (aa)   Alteration/construction/removal of temporary features
associated with a medical condition.
            (bb)   Alteration/installation/removal of vents and ventilators.
            (cc)   Alteration/addition to/removal of existing walkways.
            (dd)   Construction of new walkways.
            (ee)   Alteration or removal of existing windows.
            (ff)   Addition/installation of new windows, including storm
windows.
            (gg)   Addition/alteration/removal of other building appurtenances
or accessory site features not specifically listed.
         (2)   Pre-application Meeting
            A pre-application meeting is not required prior to applying for a
minor COA, but applicants are advised to contact staff before submitting an
application in order to understand the information required and to avoid delays
in processing the application.
         (3)   Required Application Information
            Applications shall be filed with staff. A sketch plan and building
elevations must accompany the application unless waived by staff for a
particular application.
         (4)   Determination of Compliance
            Once a complete application is submitted, staff shall review the
application and approve or deny it within forty-five (45) days based on
compliance with the standards contained in the principles and guidelines
adopted by the Historic Preservation Commission for review of changes. If after
staff has reviewed the application, and upon closer review and inspection
determines that the requested minor alterations or changes are more
appropriately considered major, or determines that the request should be
denied, staff will so inform the applicant and the application will follow the
major COA review and approval process.
         (5)   Appeals
            Appeals of approvals of certificates of appropriateness for minor
works shall be heard by the Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance with
Section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
      (C)   Certificate of Appropriateness - Major Works (Major COA)
         (1)   Applicability
            This subsection (C) is applicable to any exterior change that does
not constitute a Minor COA according to the provisions of Section
3.27.2(B) and that does not constitute relocation, demolition, or destruction
of a designated landmark or a building, structure, or site within a historic
district; or to any exterior change that does constitute a minor COA and for
which application is made after work has been initiated.
         (2)   Process Type
            Approval of a major COA by the Historic Preservation Commission
requires a quasi- judicial evidentiary hearing.
         (3)   Pre-Application Meeting
            A pre-application meeting is not required, but applicants are
advised to contact Town staff before submitting an application in order to
understand the information required and to avoid delays in processing the
application.
         (4)   Required Application
            Applications for a major COA shall be filed with the Planning
Department. Each application shall be accompanied by sketches, building
elevations, photographs, specifications, descriptions and other information of
sufficient detail to clearly show the proposed exterior alterations, additions,
changes or new construction.
         (5)   Determination of Application Completeness
            The staff to the Commission shall review the application to ensure
that it is complete, prepare a report and recommendation on the application,
and schedule the matter for an evidentiary hearing before the Historic
Preservation Commission. Staff shall transmit to the Commission all
applications, reports, and written materials relevant to the matter being
considered, and may distribute them to the Commission members prior to the
hearing if at the same time they are also provided to the applicant and to the
landowner if that person is not the applicant. As a part of the application
review procedure, Commission members may view the premises at issue before the
hearing so long as at the commencement of the hearing the members disclose the
site visit and any facts or information gleaned from the site visit that are
relevant to the case. Staff and Commission members may seek the advice of the
Department of Archives and History or other such expert advice as it may deem
necessary under the circumstances.
         (6)   Evidentiary Hearing
            Notice of the hearing shall be provided and the Historic
Preservation Commission shall conduct an evidentiary hearing on the application
in accordance with Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7.
         (7)   Decision
            The Historic Preservation Commission must act on a request for a
Major COA within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the application is
filed. Following the hearing, the Historic Preservation Commission may approve,
deny, or approve with conditions the application for a Major Certificate of
Appropriateness. The Commission shall take no action regarding a Certificate of
Appropriateness except to prevent the construction, reconstruction, alteration,
restoration, moving, or demolition of buildings, structures, appurtenant
fixtures, outdoor advertising signs, or other significant features that would
be incongruous with the special character of the landmark or district. In
making decisions on certificates of appropriateness, the Commission shall apply
the rules and standards adopted by the Commission pursuant to G.S. 160D-947(c).
The decision shall be reduced to writing and shall be approved by the
Commission and signed by the Chair of the Historic Preservation Commission or
his designee. The decision is effective upon filing the written decision with
the Planning Department. The decision shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail to the applicant, property owner, and
to any person who has submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date
the decision becomes effective. The person required to provide notice shall
certify that proper notice has been made.
         (8)   Appeals
            An appeal in the nature of certiorari from the decision of the
Historic Preservation Commission regarding a major Certificate of
Appropriateness application may be taken to the Zoning Board of Adjustment by
any aggrieved party in accordance with Section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
      (D)   Certificate of Appropriateness - Demolition of Landmarks or of
Buildings within Historic Districts
         (1)   Applicability
            A Certificate of Appropriateness - Demolition, is required prior to
the relocation, demolition, or destruction of a designated landmark or a
building, structure, or site within a historic district.
         (2)   Process Type
            Approval of a Certificate of Appropriateness – Demolition by the
Historic Preservation Commission requires a quasi-judicial evidentiary hearing.
         (3)   Pre-Application Meeting
            A pre-application meeting is not required prior to applying for a
COA-Demolition, but applicants are advised to contact staff before submitting
an application in order to understand the information required and to avoid
delays in processing the application.
         (4)   Required Application Information
            Each application shall be accompanied by a sketch plan designating
the extent of the proposed demolition, removal or destruction of historic
structures.
         (5)   Determination of Application Completeness
            Staff shall review the application to ensure that it is complete,
prepare a report and recommendation on the application, and schedule the matter
for an evidentiary hearing before the Historic Preservation Commission. Staff
shall transmit to the Commission all applications, reports, and written
materials relevant to the matter being considered, and may distribute them to
the Commission members prior to the hearing if at the same time they are also
provided to the applicant and to the landowner if that person is not the
applicant. As a part of the application review procedure, Commission members
may view the premises at issue before the hearing so long as at the
commencement of the hearing the members disclose the site visit and any facts
or information gleaned from the site visit that are relevant to the case. Staff
and Commission members may seek the advice of the Department of Archives and
History or other such expert advice as it may deem necessary under the
circumstances.
         (6)   Evidentiary Hearing
            Notice of the hearing shall be provided and the Historic
Preservation Commission shall conduct an evidentiary hearing on the application
in accordance with Sections
3.1.6 and
3.1.7.
         (7)   Decision
            The Historic Preservation Commission must act on a request for a
COA-Demolition within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date the
application is filed. Following the hearing, the Historic Preservation
Commission may approve, deny, or approve with conditions the application for a
COA-Demolition in accordance with the below provisions. The decision shall be
reduced to writing and shall be approved by the Commission and signed by the
Chair of the Historic Preservation Commission or his designee. The decision is
effective upon filing the written decision with the Planning Department. The
decision shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-
class mail to the applicant, property owner, and to any person who has
submitted a written request for a copy prior to the date the decision becomes
effective. The person required to provide notice shall certify that proper
notice has been made.
            (a)   The Historic Preservation Commission may approve the request
if the request is not incongruous with the special character of the landmark or
district.
            (b)   The Historic Preservation Commission may deny the request
only if the building, structure or site has been determined by the State
Historic Preservation Officer as having statewide significance as defined in
the criteria of the National Register of Historic Places; provided, however,
that such request may not be denied if the Historic Preservation Commission
finds that the owner would suffer extreme hardship or be permanently deprived
of all beneficial use or return from such property by virtue of the denial.
            (c)   The Historic Preservation Commission may delay the effective
date of such a certificate by up to three hundred sixty-five (365) days from
the date of approval if the request would be incongruous with the special
character of the landmark or district. The period of delay should be reduced by
the Historic Preservation Commission if it finds that the owner would suffer
extreme hardship or be permanently deprived of all beneficial use of or return
from such property by virtue of the delay. During the delay period, the
Historic Preservation Commission shall negotiate with the owner and other
parties in an effort to find a means of preserving the building, structure or
site. If the Historic Preservation Commission finds that a building, structure
or site has no special significance or value toward maintaining the character
of a district, it shall waive all or part of such period of delay and authorize
earlier demolition or removal. If the Historic Preservation Commission has
voted to recommend the designation of a landmark or the designation of an area
as a historic district, and final designation has not been made by the Town
Council, the demolition or destruction of any building, structure or site
located on the property of the proposed landmark or in the proposed district
may be delayed by the Commission for up to one hundred eighty (180) days or
until the Town Council takes final action on the designation, whichever occurs
first.
         (8)   Appeals
            An appeal in the nature of certiorari from the decision of the
Historic Preservation Commission regarding a major Certificate of
Appropriateness application may be taken to the Zoning Board of Adjustment by
any aggrieved party in accordance with Section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2014-LDO-02, 6-26-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2018-
LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-02, 8-9-2018; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19;
Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
Chapter 4: ZONING DISTRICTS
4.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
4.1.1   General Use Districts Established
   (A) Establishment
   (B) Hierarchy of General Use Districts
   
4.1.2   Relationship to Conditional Use Districts and Overlay Districts
   
4.1.3   Annexed Lands and Lands Added to the Town's Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction
   (A) Zoning Designation
   (B) Effect of Zoning Designation on Nonconforming Lot Status
4.2   GENERAL USE DISTRICTS
   
4.2.1   General Purposes
   
4.2.2   Residential and Non-Residential Zoning Districts
   (A) R-80: Residential District
   (B) R-40: Residential District
   (C) R-20: Residential District
   (D) R-12: Residential District
   (E) R-8: Residential District
   (F) TR: Transitional Residential District
   (G) RMF: Residential Multi-Family District
   (H) RR: Resource/Recreation District
   (I) OI: Office and Institutional District
   (J) GC: General Commercial District
   (K) CT: Walnut Street Corridor Transitional District
   (L) ORD: Office/Research and Development District
   (M) I: Industrial District
   (N) TC: Town Center District
4.3   CONDITIONAL USE DISTRICTS
   
4.3.1   Purpose and Intent
   
4.3.2   Districts Established
   (A) Residential Districts
   (B) Non-Residential Districts
   (C) Town Center Subdistricts
   (D) Walnut Street Corridor Subdistricts
   
4.3.3   Designation of Conditional Use Districts
   
4.3.4   Allowable Uses
   
4.3.5   Applicable Regulations
   
4.3.6   Conditional Zoning Districts
4.4   OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
   
4.4.1   General Purpose; Relationship to General Use Zoning Districts
   
4.4.2   Mixed Use Overlay
   (A) Purpose and Intent
   (B) Applicability
   (C) [Reserved]
   (D) Uses Allowed
   (E) Authority Under Overlay District
   (F) Development Standards
   (G) Dimensional Requirements
   (H) Changes to the Preliminary Development Plan Component of an Approved MXD
District (Including Activity Center Concept Plans and Mixed Use Sketch Plans)
or to an Approved PDD Master Plan
   
4.4.3   Conservation Residential Overlay District
   (A) Purpose and Intent
   (B) Location of District and Applicability
   (C) Subdistricts Created and Defined
   (D) Eligibility and Process to Obtain Density Bonus
   (E) Calculating the Base Number of Lots
   (F) Increases to Base Density; Residential Use Type Allowed; and Minimum
Dimensional Standards
   (G) Bonus Open Space Requirements
   (H) Additional Design Requirements
   
4.4.4   [Reserved]
   
4.4.5   Airport Overlay
   (A) Purpose and Intent
   (B) Location and Applicability; Compliance Required
   (C) Process for Reviewing Developments; Approval by the Raleigh-Durham
Airport Authority
   (D) Prohibited Uses and Structures
   (E) Nonconforming Uses and Structures
   (F) Location of Buildings and Parking Areas
   
4.4.6   Watershed Protection Overlay
   (A) Purpose and Intent
   (B) Applicability
   (C) Procedures for Development Approval
   (D) Overview of High Density and Low Density Development Options
   (E) Restrictions on Allowed Uses
   (F) Limitations on Impervious Surface Area and Density
   (G) Engineered Stormwater Control Measures
   (H) Clustered Development Option
   (I) Modifications and Variances
   (J) Violations; Enforcement
   
4.4.7   Historic Preservation Overlay
   (A) Purpose and Intent
   (B) Location of Districts and Applicability
4.5   FLEXIBLE USE DISTRICTS
   
4.5.1   Flexible Use Districts Generally
   (A) Purpose of Flexible Use Districts
   (B) Process Required
   (C) Conditions
   
4.5.2   MXD: Mixed Use District
   (A) Intent
   (B) Approval Procedure
   (C) Geographic Coverage
   (D) General Use and Development Standards
   (E) Considerations for Mixed Use District Rezonings
   (F) Changes to the Preliminary Development Plan Component of an Approved MXD
District
   
4.5.3   PDD: Planned Development Districts
   (A) General Intent/Purposes of the PDD Districts
   (B) Types of PDD Districts
   (C) Designation Procedure
   (D) General Use and Development Standards for All PDD Districts
4.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   4.1.1   General Use Districts Established
      (A)   Establishment
         The following general use zoning districts are hereby established:
TABLE 4.1-1: GENERAL ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
 Abbreviation District Name
TABLE 4.1-1: GENERAL ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
                              Abbreviation District Name
Residential Districts         R-80         Residential District
Residential Districts         R-40         Residential District
Residential Districts         R-20         Residential District
Residential Districts         R-12         Residential District
Residential Districts         R-8          Residential District
Residential Districts         TR           Transitional Residential District
Residential Districts         RMF          Multi-Family Residential District
Non-Residential Districts     RR           Resource/Recreation District
Non-Residential Districts     OI           Office and Institutional District
Non-Residential Districts     GC           General Commercial District
Non-Residential Districts     CT           Corridor Transitional District
Non-Residential Districts     ORD          Office/Research and Development
                                           District
Non-Residential Districts     I            Industrial District
Non-Residential Districts     TC           Town Center District
Planned Development Districts PDD (Minor)  Minor Planned Development District
Planned Development Districts PDD (Major)  Major Planned Development District
 
      (B)   Hierarchy of General Use Districts
         References in this Ordinance to less restrictive or more restrictive
zoning districts refer to the general use districts established above. The
above districts are ranked and represent, within the residential and the non-
residential categories, a progression from the most restrictive (the "highest"
classification) to the least restrictive (the "lowest" classification).
   4.1.2   Relationship to Conditional Use Districts and Overlay Districts
   Lands within the Town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction may be
classified into one (1) of the following:
      (A)   General use districts set forth in Section
4.2;
      (B)   One (1) or more of the conditional use districts set forth in
Section
4.3;
      (C)   One (1) or more of the overlay districts set forth in Section
4.4.
      (D)   Some lands within a general use district may also be classified as
"conditional" when the land was previously designated as a conditional use
district prior to July 1, 2003, but which designation was removed concurrent
with adoption of this Ordinance. In such cases, any conditions associated with
the land remain in effect regardless of the land's current designation as a
general use district.
   Where the property is classified in an overlay district as well as either a
general use district or a conditional use district, then the regulations
governing development in the overlay district shall apply in addition to the
regulations governing development in the underlying district. In the event of
an express conflict between the standards set forth in Section
4.2 and the standards set forth in Section
4.4 for an overlay district, the standards set forth in Section
4.4 shall control. In the event of an express conflict between the standards
set forth in Section
4.4 and the provisions set forth in a particular conditional rezoning, then the
more restrictive provision of either shall control.
   4.1.3   Annexed Lands and Lands Added to the Town's Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction
      (A)   Zoning Designation
         (1)   The Town Council shall determine the zoning designation and
future growth framework development category (if applicable) of properties
added to the Town's planning and development regulation jurisdiction through
extraterritorial boundary changes or annexation. Such determination shall be
based on, but not be limited to, the following factors: the property's future
growth framework development category, the property's current land use, the
existence of a previously-approved development plan, the character of adjacent
properties, current zoning designations, property owner requests or other
factors considered relevant at the time of the annexation.
         (2)   Any property owner within the land to be added to the Town's
planning and development regulation jurisdiction may submit a petition
requesting a specific zoning designation. If such a petition is received prior
to the time the land is added to the Town's jurisdiction, then the public
hearing for zoning may be held concurrently with any public hearing required
for addition of the property. If no such petition is received prior to the time
of addition of the property, then Section
3.4 of this Ordinance shall govern any subsequent rezoning of the property.
      (B)   Effect of Zoning Designation on Nonconforming Lot Status
         Where a legal, conforming lot existing in a residential zoning
district at the time the lot was added to the Town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction does not contain sufficient land to permit conformance with the
lot size or lot width of this Ordinance, such lot may be used as a building
site for a single-unit dwelling notwithstanding the limitations set forth in
Chapter 10 of this Ordinance. However, all development on such lot shall comply
with the setback requirements of
Chapter 6 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-
LDO-02, 4-28-22)
4.2   GENERAL USE DISTRICTS
   4.2.1   General Purposes
   The general use zoning districts contained in this section are intended to:
      (A)   Provide appropriately located areas for residential development
that are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and with standards of public
health and safety established by this Ordinance;
      (B)   Protect sensitive environmental and cultural resources;
      (C)   Protect existing neighborhoods and community character;
      (D)   Ensure adequate light, air, privacy, and open space for each
residential dwelling, and protect residents from the harmful effects of
excessive noise, traffic congestion, and other significant adverse
environmental effects;
      (E)   Protect residential areas from fires, explosions, toxic fumes and
substances, and other public safety hazards;
      (F)   Ensure the provision of public services and facilities needed to
accommodate planned population densities;
      (G)   Provide sites for public, semi-public, and commercial land uses,
such as schools, parks, and churches, that are needed to complement residential
development or requiring a residential environment;
      (H)   Provide appropriately located areas consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan for a full range of office, commercial, and industrial uses
needed by the Town's residents, businesses and workers, and protect such uses
from the adverse effects of incompatible uses;
      (I)   Strengthen the Town's economic base and provide employment
opportunities close to home for residents of the Town and surrounding
communities;
      (J)   Minimize any negative impact of commercial and industrial
development on abutting residential districts;
      (K)   Ensure that the appearance and effects of commercial and industrial
buildings and uses are of high quality and are harmonious with the character of
the area in which they are located; and
      (L)   Provide sites for residential, public, and semipublic uses needed
to complement commercial and industrial development.
   4.2.2   Residential and Non-Residential Zoning Districts
   The specific purposes of the general use zoning districts are set forth
below, along with any district-specific provisions that may apply. The allowed
uses and use specific-standards for each of the districts are set forth in
Chapter 5. All uses shall comply with the general dimensional standards set
forth in
Chapter 6, or as may be specified elsewhere in the Ordinance, including, but
not limited to, Section
4.5.2, Mixed Use Districts and Section
8.4, Alternative Development Option: Cluster Residential Subdivisions.
      (A)   R-80: Residential District
         The R-80 district is established to ensure the protection of open
space and to promote very low-density residential development that is
compatible with watersheds and other environmentally sensitive areas, subject
to appropriate standards. The district also can serve as an appropriate buffer
between natural resources and water supply reservoirs and more developed areas.
The minimum lot area is eighty thousand (80,000) square feet, and the maximum
density allowed is fifty-four hundredths (0.54) units per acre.
      (B)   R-40: Residential District
         The R-40 district is established to accommodate large-lot residential
uses and development compatible with the natural landscape. The minimum lot
area is forty thousand (40,000) square feet, and the maximum density allowed is
one and eight hundredths (1.08) units per acre. The R-40 district can
accommodate development on wells and/or septic tanks; but lots within new
subdivisions in this district are required to connect to public water and
sewer.
      (C)   R-20: Residential District
         The R-20 district is established as a district in which the principal
use of land is for low-density residential purposes, and is appropriate in
areas where the Comprehensive Plan designation supports very low or low density
residential use. All development in the R-20 district shall be required to
utilize public utilities. The minimum lot area is twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet, and the maximum density allowed is two and seventeen hundredths
(2.17) units per acre.
      (D)   R-12: Residential District
         The R-12 district is established as a district in which the principal
use of land is for single-unit dwellings, and is appropriate in areas where the
Comprehensive Plan supports very low, low or medium density residential use.
The regulations of this district are intended to discourage any use that would
substantially interfere with the development of single-unit dwellings and that
would be detrimental to the quiet residential nature of the district. The
minimum lot area is twelve thousand (12,000) square feet, and the maximum
density allowed is three and sixty-three hundredths (3.63) units per acre.
      (E)   R-8: Residential District
         The R-8 district is established as a district in which the principal
use of land is for single-unit dwellings, and is appropriate in areas where the
Comprehensive Plan supports low, medium or high density residential use. The
regulations for this district are intended to discourage any use that would
substantially interfere with the development, use, and enjoyment of single-unit
dwellings or that would be detrimental to the quiet residential character of
the district. The regulations of this district also are designed to encourage
the wise use of land and natural resources, with the aim of reducing sprawl and
the costly provision of infrastructure to serve dispersed development. The
minimum lot area is eight thousand (8,000) square feet, and the maximum density
allowed is five and forty-four hundredths (5.44) units per acre.
      (F)   TR: Transitional Residential District
         The TR district is established as a district in which the principal
use of land is for a variety of residential uses, and is appropriate in areas
where the Comprehensive Plan supports medium or high density residential use,
with the exception of multi-family structures. This district is appropriate for
infill developments smaller than ten (10) acres in established neighborhoods,
for denser residential neighborhoods, and for areas identified as supporting
medium-density residential uses in Cary’s Comprehensive Plan. The regulations
of this district are intended to allow innovation in the arrangement of
buildings within such developments. The minimum lot size for detached dwellings
is five thousand (5,000) square feet, and the maximum density allowed is six
(6) units per acre.
      (G)   RMF: Residential Multi-Family District
         The RMF district is established as a district in which the principal
use of land is for multi-family dwellings and also less-intensive residential
uses such as patio homes, and is appropriate in areas where the Comprehensive
Plan supports high density residential use. This district can be applied to
locations that are suitable for multi-family development, and thus provide
areas within the community for persons desiring to live in multi-family
structures at densities sufficient to support public transit. This district
should be located so as to not interfere with or damage environmentally
sensitive lands and to ensure that adequate open space and recreational
facilities are located nearby, or within the district itself, to serve the
needs of the persons who are or will be living in the district. The maximum
density allowed is twelve (12) units per acre.
      (H)   RR: Resource/Recreation District
         The purpose of the RR district is to protect and preserve parks,
scenic areas, and open spaces, and to protect watersheds and water supplies and
to allow public recreational uses. In considering the appropriateness of
classifying any property into this district, the Town shall consider the
physical pattern of development in the area, topography, and proximity to
important natural resources deemed worthy of protection.
      (I)   OI: Office and Institutional District
         The OI district provides for the development of offices and community
institutions that have similar development characteristics and require
locations close to the more intensive commercial districts. This district
requires strict development controls since, in most instances, these districts
will be located adjacent to residential districts.
      (J)   GC: General Commercial District
         The GC district is generally intended to allow for uses that provide
goods and services to residents of the community. Because these commercial uses
are subject to the public view, they should provide an appropriate appearance,
ample parking, controlled traffic movement, suitable landscaping, and protect
abutting residential areas from potentially negative impacts associated with
commercial activity.
      (K)   CT: Walnut Street Corridor Transitional District
         (1)   Purpose and Intent
            The Walnut Street Corridor Transitional District standards are
intended to accomplish the following:
            (a)   Provide for the development of offices, personal service and
other compatible uses in the area defined between existing residential
neighborhoods and the Walnut Street Corridor;
            (b)   To minimize impacts on adjacent residential uses;
            (c)   To provide a landscape buffer to the residential area;
            (d)   To encourage the conversion of existing structures where
practical;
            (e)   To encourage the consolidation of property to facilitate
redevelopment and minimize the number of access points to the thoroughfare;
            (f)   To require the provision of cross access where possible;
            (g)   To encourage new development to be of a residential style and
proportion; and
            (h)   To ensure compatibility of design in the district, adequate
parking, pedestrian and bicycle accessibility, and consistent streetscape
treatment.
         (2)   Subdistricts Created and Defined
            Due to the variation in existing character and desired types of
future development in various portions of the Walnut Street Corridor, differing
land uses, building standards, parking requirements, and other related
development standards are imposed within different portions of the Walnut
Street Transitional District. In order to present the full range of zoning and
development requirements for each different area, this zoning district is
divided into such subdistricts as follows:
            (a)   Redevelopment Subdistrict
               Parcels located in the redevelopment subdistrict are the larger,
deeper parcels located at the western end of the Walnut Street corridor. These
parcels lend themselves to redevelopment and larger sized buildings or
conversion to certain non-residential uses. These parcels, if redeveloped, are
intended to serve as transitions in size between the intense commercial uses at
Cary Towne Center Mall and the adjoining low-density residential neighborhoods.
Development is intended to respect the residential appearance of the corridor
in this location.
            (b)   Conversion Subdistrict
               Parcels located in the Conversion subdistrict are shallower in
depth and less affected by development pressure than those parcels adjacent to
the mall. The Conversion subdistrict is also more suitable for smaller size
buildings and conversion of existing homes to certain low-impact non-
residential uses Development and redevelopment should maintain the residential
appearance of the central portion of the CT district.
            (c)   Infill Subdistrict
               Parcels located in the Infill subdistrict are at least five (5)
acres in size and are currently either undeveloped, contain impermanent
structures such as mobile homes, or contain only a single home. The type and
intensity of use recommended for this classification is the same as for
Corridor subdistrict except that it is expected that new buildings will be
constructed.
         (3)   Development Standards for Certain New Construction and
Redevelopment
      The standards listed in the Table below shall only be utilized when there
is a change in the use of a property from the use in existence on July 1, 2003.
Detail on the allowable uses, and development standards are listed in the table
below as well as in
Chapters 5 and
6 of this Ordinance.
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_4.2-1
TABLE 4.2-1: BUILDING AND SITE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN NEW CONSTRUCTION
AND/OR REDEVELOPMENT IN THE WALNUT STREET CORRIDOR TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
(Not applicable to public parks and athletic fields or structures subject to
regulation under the North Carolina Residential Code for one- and two-family
dwellings).
TABLE 4.2-1: BUILDING AND SITE DESIGN STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN NEW CONSTRUCTION AND/OR
REDEVELOPMENT IN THE WALNUT STREET CORRIDOR TRANSITIONAL DISTRICT
(Not applicable to public parks and athletic fields or structures subject to regulation under
the North Carolina Residential Code for one- and two-family dwellings).
Building    Natural siding, brick, stone and wood.
Materials
Roofing     Shingles, slate, standing seam metal.
Materials
Roof Design Buildings shall have pitched roofs which are residential in character. Mansard
            roofs prohibited.
Building    Non-residential buildings shall provide front elevations and an entrance facing
Locations   Walnut Street. Corner lots shall be double-fronted.
            Building sizes are limited based upon the standards in
            Chapter 6, but the maximum building square footage for a new non-residential
            building within the Conversion sub-district may be increased from two thousand
Building    five hundred (2,500) square feet up to five thousand (5,000) square feet through
Size        the Special Use process (see Section
            3.8) provided that two (2) or more contiguous existing lots designated as
            "Conversion" are being combined as part of the proposal. See 6.1.4 to reference
            maximum building size for Infill or Redevelopment sub-districts.
            If wider than twenty-five (25) feet, the facade surface shall be divided into two
Building    (2) or more portions, each distinguished by a variation in building articulation
Facades     and or facade treatment. This requirement shall not apply to detached dwellings
            and townhomes.
            A minimum of forty percent (40%) of the first floor and twenty percent (20%) of
Window      the upper floors on the front facade shall have window/door fenestration. Tinted
Treatment   or mirrored glass is prohibited on the front facade. Side elevations which can be
            seen from the public view shall have a minimum of twenty percent (20%) window/
            door fenestration. These requirements shall not apply to residential uses.
            Existing healthy trees shall be preserved, but if none exist, then one (1) upper-
Streetscape story tree for each thirty (30) feet of street frontage shall be installed. In
Plantings   addition, one (1) understory tree for each twenty (20) feet on average of street
            frontage shall also be installed.
            (1)   In the conversion area, a masonry wall is required with a minimum height of
            six (6) feet, with vegetation consisting of evergreen planting spaced no more
            than fifteen (15) feet apart and ten (10) feet in height at the time of
            installation.
            (2)   In the redevelopment or infill area, a masonry wall, a minimum height of
            eight (8) feet, with vegetation consisting of evergreen planting spaced no more
            than ten (10) feet apart and ten (10) feet in height at the time of installation
            is required. A masonry wall is not required for detached dwellings or townhome
            use in the infill area.
Buffer Wall (3)   Walls shall not be placed within utility easements or required drainage
            areas.
            (4)   The Buffer Wall shall be located within five (5) feet of the common
            property line unless required to be located outside this area to avoid the
            removal of mature vegetation.
            (5)   Openings in the wall are permitted to allow access for maintenance. In
            situations where such openings are provided, vegetation shall be installed to
            maintain a visual buffer between uses.
            (6)   Walls shall be constructed of brick, cast stone, stone or other high
            quality, long-lasting masonry material.
Off-Street  No more than thirty percent (30%) of the parking shall be located between the
Parking     building and Walnut Street.
Pedestrian  Pedestrian access between buildings and to Walnut Street shall be provided.
Access
            Cross-access connections with shared access provisions shall be required unless
Vehicular   waived by the  Planning Director . Conversion properties bordering Sturdivant
Access      Drive are not required to provide cross-access. Parcels with access to two (2) or
            more public streets shall not be allowed full access to Walnut Street.
            Exterior lighting shall not exceed twenty (20) feet in height, and shall include
Lighting    cut-off or shielded fixtures. Light poles shall be neutral earth-tone colors.
            Accent lighting is only permitted on building fronts, and shall be directed away
            from adjacent residential dwellings and lots.
 
      (L)   ORD: Office/Research and Development District
         The ORD district is established to provide locations for a wide range
of employment generating office, institutional, research and development, and
light manufacturing uses, and for certain other uses that could create
significant adverse impacts if located in the vicinity of residential areas.
The standards of this district are designed to ensure that such uses are
developed in a manner compatible with the use and enjoyment of nearby
properties, and to minimize potential nuisances or damage to the environment.
In addition, by allowing a wide range of permitted uses, this district is
intended to accommodate the development of "flex space" arrangements, wherein
the developer can establish different combinations of uses on a site over time,
as the market dictates, as long as all uses and development conform to the
standards established by the Town to protect adjacent land uses and the natural
environment.
      (M)   I: Industrial District
         The I district is established as a district in which the principal use
of land is for industries which can be operated in a relatively clean and quiet
manner and which will not be obnoxious to adjacent residential or business
districts, for warehousing and wholesaling activities with limited contact with
the general public, and for certain outdoor amusement facilities which generate
large volumes of automobile traffic. The regulations are designed to encourage
the use of land for industry, which should be properly segregated, and to
prohibit any other use that would substantially interfere with the development
of industrial establishments in the district.
      (N)   TC: Town Center District
         (1)   Purpose and Intent
            The purpose of the TC district is to carry out the land use
recommendations contained in the Comprehensive Plan, and to achieve the urban
design principles spelled out in the Community_Appearance_Manual, Downtown
Streetscape Master Plan, and Site Design Standards.
         (2)   [Reserved]
         (3)   Findings
            The Town Center district seeks to protect, preserve, and enhance
the unique aesthetic and architectural character of the downtown; conserve the
value of buildings; and encourage appropriate use of the land in the downtown.
This district is based, in part, on the findings that:
            (a)   Overall Image
               Cary's central area contributes substantially to the Town's
overall image;
            (b)   Economic Vitality
               The economic vitality of downtown is important to the overall
welfare of the Town;
            (c)   Appropriate Uses
               Provisions that ensure the appropriate use of property for the
downtown area will safeguard its prosperity and offer social and cultural
benefits to the citizens of Cary;
            (d)   Urban Design
               Standards that encourage new buildings, retain the values of
surrounding properties, and protect the Town's small-town charm and character
will promote good urban design;
            (e)   Diversity of Development
               A diverse mix of business, office, institutional, recreational,
open space, and residential uses is desirable and appropriate in the core area
of the community;
            (f)   Pedestrian-Friendly Development
               Encouragement of pedestrian-friendly development within walking
distance of the future regional transit station at sufficient densities to
support the station and downtown businesses is a wise use of land;
            (g)   Sense of Place
               Creation of a sense of place that fosters a unique, attractive,
and memorable destination for visitors and residents is important; and
            (h)   Housing Diversity
               Encouragement of a diverse range of housing types to accommodate
a range of needs is good public policy and helps achieve the policy direction
contained in the Town's Comprehensive Plan.
         (4)   Applicability
            The current boundaries of this district are shown on the Official
Zoning Map.
         (5)   Subdistricts Created and Defined
            Due to the variation in existing character and desired types of
future development in various portions of the downtown area, differing land
uses, building standards, parking requirements, open space requirements, and
other related development standards are applicable within different portions of
the Town Center. In order to present the full range zoning and development
requirements for each different area, this zoning district is divided into such
subdistricts as delineated in the Official Zoning Map as follows:
TABLE 4.2-2: TOWN CENTER SUBDISTRICTS
Subdistrict Description
TABLE 4.2-2: TOWN CENTER SUBDISTRICTS
Subdistrict  Description
HMXD         High Intensity Mixed Use
MXD          Mixed Use
HDR Mid-Rise High Density Residential Mid-Rise
MXDR         Mixed Density Residential
HDR Garden   High Density Residential Garden
MDR          Medium Density Residential
LDR          Low Density Residential
LDR-12
PKS/OS       Parks and Open Space
OFC/INS      Office/Institutional
OFC/IND      Office/Industrial
COM          Commercial
CLI          Commercial Low Intensity
CB&R         Cottage Business and Residential
INS          Institutional
 
         (6)   Treatment of Existing Residential Uses
            (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions of
Chapter 10, Nonconformities, residential uses that exist in the Subdistricts of
the Town Center district on July 1, 2003 are deemed to be conforming to the
terms of this Section. Such uses may continue to be used as such, even if left
unoccupied for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. However, a
nonconforming residential use that is converted to a conforming use after July
1, 2003 shall not be converted to a residential use once a conforming use has
been established.
            (b)   Expansion of existing detached principal dwellings that
existed on July 1, 2003 and on property now located within a Town Center
subdistrict in which such use is not permitted under
Table 5.1-2 of this Ordinance shall be permitted by right in accordance with
Section
10.1.8(H)(1).
         (7)   Allowed Principal, Accessory, and Stormwater Uses
            (a)   Principal and accessory uses allowed in each subdistrict are
detailed in the use table set forth in Section
5.1.3 Accessory or ancillary structures normally associated with such primary
uses and that do not constitute more than 33 percent of the total floor area on
a site are allowed in conjunction with the principal use; except that accessory
dwelling units may exceed this amount if permitted by Section
5.3.4.
            (b)   The use of residentially zoned property to support
nonresidential stormwater devices to include but not limited to detention and
retention ponds are allowed in the Town Center (TC) District providing that the
following conditions are met:
               1.   The properties must be contiguous as defined in Section
12.4 of this Ordinance.
               2.   The same group, entity, or individual must own both
properties (residential and nonresidential).
         (8)   Rezoning Procedure
            Because the TC district is a single zoning district with various
subdistricts, land use changes within this district do not entail a typical
rezoning to a different district procedure. See Section
3.4.4 for the rezoning procedure within the TC district.
         (9)   General Development Objectives
            This district is designed to provide a maximum amount of
flexibility to landowners to facilitate new development and redevelopment of
existing sites within the Town Center to create the following:
            (a)   Unique and Dynamic Atmosphere
               Create a unique, vibrant, dynamic, pedestrian-friendly location;
            (b)   Higher Densities in Proximity to Regional Rail Station
               Encourage higher residential densities within a short walking
distance of the planned regional rail transit station in the center of the
district; and
            (c)   Mix of Uses
               Allow multi-story, mixed use buildings, so that the core area of
downtown will include a high-intensity collection of retail shops, restaurants,
entertainment, housing, offices, and similar uses to establish a place where
residents may live, work, and recreate.
         (10)   Standards for New Development
            (a)   Exemption from Certain Town Standards
               Considering the unique nature of downtown, certain requirements
of the following provisions shall not be applicable within the Town Center
district in order to provide the flexibility for downtown development:
               1.   The required number of off-street parking spaces (see
Section
7.8) may be reduced up to fifty (50) percent on a case-by-case basis provided
there is adequate on-street parking available in a proximate area. All other
parking standards in Section
7.8 shall apply.
               2.   The perimeter buffer requirements in Section
7.2.3 and streetscaping requirements in Section
7.2.4 may be reduced or waived. Additional provisions from Section
7.2 may also be modified on a case-by-case basis provided such modification is
consistent with the Community_Appearance_Manual and the Downtown Streetscape
Master Plan; except that a hardship must be demonstrated before the
requirements of Section
7.2.5 related to the retention of champion trees may be modified.
               3.   The exterior lighting requirements in Section
7.9.3 except in cases where a property is bounded by an existing single-unit
dwelling or development.
               4.   The requirements relating to private open space in Section
8.3.1.
            (b)   General Performance Standards
               Except as otherwise exempted, all new projects or proposed
expansion, alteration, or major repair must satisfy the standards set forth in
all other applicable town plans, guidelines, codes, and regulations. New
development shall be appropriate to the site, taking into account the safety,
convenience, and amenity of the surrounding neighborhood, and shall be
evaluated in relation to existing adjacent or surrounding buildings that fit
the overall intent of this section. Downtown projects must, among other
requirements, meet the following general performance standards.
               1.   All access roads, entrance or exit drives will be
appropriate for pedestrian and automotive safety and convenience, traffic flow,
and control and access in the case of fire or other emergency;
               2.   All off-street parking, loading, refuse collection and
other service areas will be appropriate with respect to pedestrian and
automotive safety and convenience, traffic flow, and economic, noise, glare,
odor and other impacts upon adjoining properties and other properties in the
neighborhood;
               3.   All landscaping, screening and fencing will be appropriate,
with respect to the effectiveness of their type; dimensions and character will
be appropriate with respect to minimizing the economic, noise, glare, odor and
other impacts adjoining properties and other properties in the neighborhood;
and
               4.   The type, size and intensity of the use and the hours of
operation and number of people utilizing the use will be appropriate with
respect to minimizing the impact upon adjoining properties and other properties
in the neighborhood.
            (c)   Statement of Design Compatibility
               [Reserved]
            (d)   Required Design Issues
               All new development requiring development plan approval within
the Town Center district shall be consistent with the applicable design
standards in the Community_Appearance_Manual, Downtown Streetscape Master Plan,
and the Site Design Standards.
            (e)   [Reserved]
               In addition to all of the required elements to be addressed from
paragraph (d) above, development projects that include special features and
activities like outdoor use areas shall also meet the standards outlined in the
Downtown_Design_Guidelines for such features or activities:
            (f)   [Reserved]
            (g)   Use-Specific Standards
               The use-specific standards set forth in
Chapter 5 shall apply to all uses within each subdistrict.
         (11)   Review Procedures
            Review of development plans shall be done in accordance with
Section
3.9. of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07;
Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-
01, 2-12-09; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-03, 5-14-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord.
No. 2010-LDO-03, 2-25-10; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02,
6-13-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord.
No. 2015-LDO-005, 11-19-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-
01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord.
No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23; Ord. No. 2025-CODE-01,
4-10-25)
4.3   CONDITIONAL USE DISTRICTS
   4.3.1   Purpose and Intent
   Conditional use district zoning provides an option by which an applicant for
a rezoning may be held to certain promises relating to the type of development
that occurs on his or her property. This section sets forth the types of
conditional use districts and explains their relationship to the general use
districts. The procedure for approving a conditional use district rezoning is
set forth in Section
3.4.2.
   4.3.2   Districts Established
      Each general use district set forth in Section
4.2 of this Ordinance shall have a corresponding conditional use district.
Accordingly, the following conditional use districts are hereby established:
      (A)   Residential Districts
         (1)   R-80-CU: Residential district;
         (2)   R-40-CU: Residential district;
         (3)   R-20-CU: Residential district;
         (4)   R-12-CU: Residential district;
         (5)   R-8-CU: Residential district;
         (6)   TR-CU: Transitional Residential district; and
         (7)   RMF-CU: Multi-Family Residential district.
      (B)   Non-Residential Districts
         (1)   RR-CU: Resource/Recreation district;
         (2)   OI-CU: Office and Institutional district;
         (3)   GC-CU: General Commercial district;
         (4)   ORD-CU: Office/Research and Development district; and
         (5)   I-CU: Industrial district.
      (C)   Town Center Subdistricts
         (1)   TC-HMXD-CU: High Intensity Mixed Use subdistrict;
         (2)   TC-MXD-CU: Mixed Use subdistrict;
         (3)   TC-HDR Mid-Rise-CU: High Density Residential Mid-Rise
subdistrict;
         (4)   TC-MXDR-CU: Mixed Density Residential subdistrict;
         (5)   TC-HDR Garden-CU: High Density Residential Garden subdistrict;
         (6)   TC-MDR-CU: Medium Density Residential subdistrict;
         (7)   TC-LDR-CU: Low Density Residential subdistrict;
         (8)   TC-OFC/INS-CU: Office/Institutional subdistrict;
         (9)   TC-OFC/IND-CU: Office/Industrial subdistrict;
         (10)   TC-COM-CU: Commercial subdistrict;
         (11)   TC-CLI-CU: Commercial Low Intensity subdistrict;
         (12)   TC-CB&R-CU: Cottage Business and Residential subdistrict; and
         (13)   TC-INS-CU: Institutional subdistrict.
      (D)   Walnut Street Corridor Subdistricts
         (1)   CT-REDEV-CU: Walnut Street Corridor Redevelopment Area
subdistrict;
         (2)   CT-CONV-CU: Walnut Street Corridor Conversion Area subdistrict;
and
         (3)   CT-INFILL-CU: Walnut Street Infull Area subdistrict.
   4.3.3   Designation of Conditional Use Districts
   Conditional use districts shall be designated only in accordance with the
procedures and requirements set forth in Section
3.4.2 of this Ordinance, and may not contain conditions which are less
restrictive than this Ordinance or other applicable state and/or federal laws.
   4.3.4   Allowable Uses
   No use shall be permitted within a conditional use district except pursuant
to the conditions imposed on the conditional use district as part of the zoning
approval. The permitted uses must be ones that this Ordinance allows in the
corresponding general use district.
   4.3.5   Applicable Regulations
      (A)   All standards and requirements that apply to the corresponding
general use district shall apply to the conditional use district.
      (B)   Conditions imposed on a conditional use district may be no less
restrictive than those standards applying to the corresponding general use
district.
      (C)   Existing conditional use limitations in a conditional use district
shall become null and void if future amendments to this Ordinance require
stricter standards than those imposed under existing conditional use zoning.
   4.3.6   Conditional Zoning Districts
      (A)   In addition to "Conditional Use" zoning designations, the Official
Zoning Map also contains parcels with "Conditional" zoning. Parcels with
conditional zoning are parcels that were in pre-existing conditional use
districts prior to July 1, 2003, that were removed or substantially modified by
the adoption of this Ordinance. As a result of these changes, the parcels were
translated into corresponding general use districts with the caveat that all
previously existing conditions associated with a parcel will remain in effect
unless modified through a subsequent rezoning.
      (B)   The following Conditional zoning districts are hereby established:
         (1)   R-40-C: Residential district;
         (2)   R-12-C: Residential district;
         (3)   R-8-C Residential district;
         (4)   RMF-C Residential district;
         (5)   CT-C Corridor Transition district;
         (6)   TC-C Town Center district.
      (C)   Rezoning requests from a general use designation or conditional use
designation to the "conditional" designation are prohibited. Any subsequent
rezoning of a parcel in a Conditional zoning district listed above shall result
in the removal of the "conditional" designation in favor of a new general use
or conditional use designation.
(Ord. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-
01, 6-24-21)
4.4   OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
   4.4.1   General Purpose; Relationship to General Use Zoning Districts
   The overlay zoning districts of this chapter typically apply in combination
with the underlying general use zoning districts to impose regulations and
standards in addition to those required by the general use districts except
where otherwise specified for a particular overlay district. The requirements
of an overlay district shall apply whenever they are in conflict with and are
more stringent than those in the general use district. Variances may not be
granted from overlay district regulations unless specifically provided for in a
particular overlay district. The following overlay districts are hereby
created:
      (A)   Mixed Use Overlay;
      (B)   Conservation Residential Overlay;
      (C)   Thoroughfare Overlay;
      (D)   Airport Overlay;
      (E)   Watershed Protection Overlay; and
      (F)    Historic Preservation Overlay.
   4.4.2   Mixed Use Overlay
   (A)   Purpose and Intent
         It is the purpose and intent of this overlay district to enable the
development of land in areas intended to have a compatible mixture of
commercial, office, residential, recreational, civic and/or cultural uses which
are highly integrated and function in a cohesive manner. Each Mixed Use Overlay
District is intended to function at a neighborhood, community or regional scale
identified on the Town of Cary Official Zoning Overlay Map. Benefits of this
approach to development will help concentrate land uses, reduce sprawl, promote
a more efficient pattern of land uses, provide needed goods and services,
reduce automobile trips, and facilitate convenient and safe circulation.
      (B)   Applicability
         The Mixed Use Overlay District shall apply to areas designated as such
on the Town Of Cary Official Zoning Map.
      (C)   [Reserved]
      (D)   Uses Allowed
         The uses allowed in the Mixed Use Overlay District are set forth in
the Table of Permitted Uses in
Chapter 5. The applicable designation of Neighborhood, Community or Regional
will be as identified on the Town Of Cary Official Zoning Overlay Map.
      (E)   Authority Under Overlay District
         (1)   General Authority
            Property in a Mixed Use Overlay District may be developed in
accordance with requirements for one (1) of the following, as applicable, and
as described below in this Section
4.4.2(E):
            (a)   an existing general use zoning district, conditional use
zoning district, or planned development district established prior to August
13, 2009 (hereinafter collectively, "base zoning");
            (b)   an Activity Center Concept Plan ("ACCP") approved between
July 1, 2003 and April 27, 2006;
            (c)   a Mixed Use Sketch Plan ("MUSP") approved between April 27,
2006 and August 13, 2009;
            (d)   modification of a planned development district that was
initially created prior to August 13, 2009;
            (e)   a conditional use zoning district approved after January 24,
2017, which either modified previously-approved zoning conditions or added
initial zoning conditions to the previously-approved base zoning district;
            (f)   a MXD District approved after August 13, 2009; or
            (g)   where the property is not in the Destination Center,
Commercial Center Mixed Use, or Mixed Use Employment Center future growth
framework development category as designated in the Shape chapter of the Cary
Community Plan, a general use or conditional use zoning district approved after
January 24, 2017.
         (2)   Utilization of Existing Base Zoning, Excluding Planned
Development Districts
            Development plans that are submitted utilizing the base zoning
shall be evaluated against the Comprehensive Plan, design guidelines, and
related requirements to determine whether the proposed development is in
keeping with the overall intent of the MUOD.
            Further, if an ACCP or MUSP has been approved for all or a portion
of property proposed for development or redevelopment, and if the ACCP or MUSP
includes specific site design guidelines, then the design guidelines shall
apply to the property, or portions thereof, covered by the ACCP or MUSP. The
aspects of ACCP/MUSP design guidelines that are applicable to development under
the base zoning include, but are not limited to, more restrictive guidelines
related to building placement and orientation, roadway and sidewalk sections,
streetscape treatments, landscaping treatments, individual building or tenant
space sizes, open space and public space, parking lot design and placement,
block length, connectivity, stormwater controls, block frontage coverage,
public art, signage and site entryway features.
            Dimensional standards prescribed by ACCP/MUSP site design
guidelines are also applicable to development under the base zoning, except for
single-unit residential development having lots of twenty thousand (20,000)
square feet or more. A development or redevelopment proposal submitted under
the base district zoning should facilitate the ultimate attainment of the
circulation network outlined in the ACCP/MUSP.
         (3)   Utilization of Approved Activity Center Concept Plans or Mixed
Use Sketch Plans
            Property for which an ACCP or MUSP was approved prior to August 13,
2009 may be developed in accordance with that ACCP/MUSP.
         (4)   Modification of Planned Development Districts
            Requests to modify or expand existing planned development districts
shall be evaluated against the Comprehensive Plan, design guidelines, and
related requirements to determine whether the proposed development is in
keeping with the overall intent of the MUOD.
            Staff may approve changes to PDD Master Plans if such changes fall
within the criteria allowed for administrative approval under Section
3.19, Minor Modifications. Applications for such changes shall be considered
using the process set forth in Section
3.19. Proposed changes that do not fall within the criteria allowed for
administrative approval in Section
3.19 may occur only through rezoning to amend the Planned Development District,
following approval procedures set forth in Section
3.4.5.
         (5)   Utilization of a Mixed Use District Approved After August 13,
2009
            Requests to rezone property to the Mixed Use District shall be
evaluated against Section
4.5.2 and other applicable Sections of this Ordinance, the Comprehensive Plan,
design guidelines, and related requirements to determine whether the proposed
development is in keeping with the overall intent of the MUOD.
         (6)   Utilization of a General Use or Conditional Use Zoning District
Approved After January 24, 2017
            Requests to rezone property to a General Use or Conditional Use
Zoning District shall be evaluated against Section
3.4.1(E) and other applicable Sections of this Ordinance, the Comprehensive
Plan, design guidelines, and related requirements to determine whether the
proposed development is in keeping with the overall intent of the MUOD.
      (F)   Development Standards
         Notwithstanding an approved ACCP/MUSP or existing planned development
master plan, any development and/or redevelopment proposed for parcels located
within a Mixed Use Overlay District shall meet the following development
standards:
         (1)   Any conditions related to allowable land uses and/or landscaping
buffer provisions applied through a conditional use rezoning shall continue to
apply unless the property is subsequently rezoned to the MXD district and said
conditions are not included as development requirements of the MXD district;
and
         (2)   The road network shall be designed to ensure that
adjacent residential areas will have direct access to the non-residential
portions of the Mixed Use Overlay District in lieu of entering and exiting
through thoroughfares and/or collector streets; and
         (3)   The development/redevelopment shall provide or contribute to a
pedestrian and road network that connects non-residential and existing
residential uses (including multi-family and single-unit) developments in
accordance with town-wide design guidelines.
            Exceptions may be considered to items 2 and 3 above where adjacent
established single-unit residential developments (not part of an approved mixed
use sketch plan or an existing master plan) are proposed to connect through a
roadway to a Regional Mixed Use Overlay District. This exemption shall not
apply when public uses (including but not limited to schools, libraries, and
parks) are proposed within a Regional Mixed Use Overlay District.
      (G)   Dimensional Requirements
         The general dimensional standards shall be as specified for the
applicable base zoning district, ACCP, MUSP, Planned Development District
Master Plan, preliminary development plan for property zoned MXD, or applicable
general use or conditional use zoning district approved after January 24, 2017.
      (H)   Changes to the Preliminary Development Plan Component of an
Approved MXD District (Including Activity Center Concept Plans and Mixed Use
Sketch Plans) or to an Approved PDD Master Plan
         Any change in the general location and character of the features
depicted on approved preliminary development plans, ACCPs, MUSPs or PDD Master
Plans, except where such change is determined by the Planning Director to be a
minor modification as outlined in Section
3.19.2(B), shall be considered a material change to the approved preliminary
development plan, ACCP, MUSP or PDD Master Plan, and shall be processed as a
new application in accordance with the applicable procedures set forth in
Sections
3.4.3 and
3.4.5. The Planning Director shall determine whether any such change is a
material change.
   4.4.3   Conservation Residential Overlay District
      (A)   Purpose and Intent
The Conservation Residential Overlay District is established to implement the
Comprehensive Plan. The goals and objectives of this overlay are to:
         (1)   Encourage environmentally sound planning;
         (2)   Protect open space and natural resources;
         (3)   Create attractive living environments;
         (4)   Encourage the creative placement of dwelling units;
         (5)   Limit the consumption of scenic, historic, and forested land for
development;
         (6)   Design residential developments using natural topography,
drainage ways and advanced water-quality protection techniques; and
         (7)   Create a contiguous network of open spaces by linking the open
space areas within the residential development to open space on adjoining land
wherever possible.
   To further these goals and objectives, the overlay district provides the
opportunity for residential developments to receive an increase in the number
of potential dwelling units (based on the underlying zoning requirements) when
such residential developments meet open space and other design requirements set
forth within this Section.
      (B)   Location of District and Applicability
         The provisions of the Conservation Residential Overlay District shall
apply to the geographic areas designated as such on the Town of Cary Official
Zoning Map. For properties designated as Conservation Residential on the Town
of Cary Official Zoning Map and located outside of the Town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction (ETJ), annexation and rezoning in accordance with this Section and
all other applicable sections of the Land Development Ordinance is required
before applicants may utilize the density bonus provisions of Sections
4.4.3(D) through (H).
         This overlay district does not preclude any residential or non-
residential uses allowed within the underlying zoning districts, provided that
all applicable Land Development Ordinance requirements are met. Properties may
be rezoned to residential or non-residential districts if supported by the
Comprehensive Plan and in accordance with applicable sections of the Land
Development Ordinance. Parcels zoned as Planned Development Districts and
parcels subject to development plans approved before July 15, 2004, are exempt
from the application of this Section for so long as the PDD or development plan
remains valid.
         The density bonus provisions of Sections
4.4.3(D) through (H) are optional. However, all development within the overlay
district shall, in addition to all other requirements of the Land Development
Ordinance, provide a buffer of fifty (50) feet in width along the American
Tobacco Trail. The buffer shall function as visual separation between the
public trail and private property; it shall contain native plant material,
supplemented where necessary with deciduous and evergreen trees to provide an
opaque screen for the benefit of trail users and adjoining property owners. The
buffer shall conform to the requirements of a Type 'A' Buffer as described in
LDO Section
7.2.3(D).
      (C)   Subdistricts Created and Defined
         Due to the existing character and desired types of future development
in the Conservation Residential Overlay District, differing residential
densities, dimensional standards, open space requirements, and other related
development standards are set forth within this Section. In order to present
the full range of zoning and development requirements for each different area,
this overlay zoning district is divided into two (2) subdistricts as follows:
 
TABLE 4.4-1: CONSERVATION RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY SUBDISTRICTS
Subdistrict Description
LCR         Conservation Residential, Low Density
VLCR        Conservation Residential, Very Low Density
 
      (D)   Eligibility and Process to Obtain Density Bonus
         An increase in the number of lots (density bonus) above the number of
lots that could be achieved utilizing the underlying zoning (base number of
lots) is allowed, provided the development plan meets open space requirements
and other design requirements set forth within this Section.
         New residential developments within the Conservation Residential
Overlay District seeking to utilize the density bonus provisions of this
Section shall require submission of a development plan in accordance with
Section
3.9 of this Ordinance, and approval of such plan by the appropriate decision-
making body. To be eligible to gain additional units above the base number of
lots, the minimum size of the site shall be ten (10) acres.
         (1)   Rezoning
            For property located within the overlay district as shown on the
Town of Cary Official Zoning Overlay Map, rezoning is not required in order to
submit development plan applications that meet the requirements stated in
Sections
4.4.3(D) through (H).
            For properties within the Conservation Residential Overlay District
but not within the Town Limits and/or Extraterritorial Zoning Jurisdiction
(ETJ), annexation and rezoning is required before such properties can be
developed pursuant to Sections
4.4.3(D) through (H). Annexation and rezoning (to establish initial zoning) to
the Residential-40 district and Conservation Residential Overlay District must
be approved before a proposed development plan using the provisions of Section
4.4.3(D) through (H) can be submitted for review.
            Rezonings to non-residential and institutional uses may be
permitted if consistent with the Comprehensive Plan. Rezonings to non-
residential and institutional districts are not required to be subject to the
requirements of this Overlay District.
      (E)   Calculating the Base Number of Lots
         The base number of lots is defined as the lot yield based on the
implementation of the requirements of the underlying zoning district. The base
number of lots is the starting point from which extra lots may be permitted if
non-regulatory or bonus open space, as defined below, is provided and other
design requirements are met.
         The applicant shall choose one (1) of the following methods for
calculating the base number of lots:
         (1)   The base number of lots may be determined by taking ninety (90)
percent of the potential developable area of the site and multiplying by the
maximum density (based on lot area requirements) for the underlying zoning
district. The purpose of reducing the potential developable acreage by ten (10)
percent is to account for the approximate area that would be allocated to
roadways within a conventional subdivision. "Potential developable area" within
this Section is defined as the total land area of the site excluding all
regulatory floodplains, streetscapes and other required areas (see
Chapter 7: Development and Design Standards). For sites that contain and/or are
adjacent to the American Tobacco Trail, a buffer of at least fifty (50) feet in
width is required. This minimum buffer width is considered regulatory/required
area, and shall not be included in the calculation of potential developable
area.
            Example: Site A
            Total Site Acres: One hundred (100)
            Acres in regulated/protected areas: Twenty (20)
            Potential Developable Area Including Roadways: One hundred (100) -
Twenty (20) = Eighty (80) Acres
            Calculated Developable Area: Eighty (80) Acres x Ninety (90)
percent = Seventy-two (72) Acres
            Base Number of Lots: Seventy-two (72) Acres x 1.09 (density
permitted in R-40) = Seventy-eight (78) lots
         (2)   The base number of lots may be determined based on the applicant
providing a sketch development plan that fully complies with the development
requirements of the underlying zoning district for the site.
      (F)   Increases to Base Density; Residential Use Type Allowed; and
Minimum Dimensional Standards
         (1)   Increase in Density - An increase in the number of lots (density
bonus) is provided in exchange for the permanent preservation of non-regulatory
(referred to as "bonus") open space and compliance with other design
requirements. An increase in the number of lots is achieved by allowing a
smaller minimum lot size and increasing the permitted density (see
Table 4.4-2 below).
         (2)   Allowance for Attached Dwelling Units - All lots developed in
accordance with Sections
4.4.3(D) through (H) shall be for single-unit detached dwelling units with the
exception of lots within the Conservation Residential Low Density (LCR)
subdistrict. Within this subdistrict, attached, semi-detached, detached patio
dwelling and townhome units shall be permitted, but shall not exceed twenty
(20) percent of the total development yield. The lots for attached dwellings
and detached patio dwellings shall use the Transitional Residential (TR)
dimensional requirements, and therefore may have smaller lot sizes than the
minimum lot size for detached lots as prescribed below.
         (3)   Specific Requirements by Subdistrict
 
TABLE 4.4-2: MAXIMUM DENSITY, MINIMUM LOT SIZE AND OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS BY
SUBDISTRICT
                                      Minimum Lot
                         Minimum Lot  Size if Site  Minimum Lot
                         Size if Site Contains      Size if Site
                         Contains     between       Contains
             Maximum     Less than    Twenty (20)   Thirty (30)   Bonus Open
Overlay      Development Twenty (20)  and Less than Percent or    Space
Subdistrict  Density     Percent of   Thirty (30)   more of the   Required Per
             (d.u./acre) the Total    Percent of    Total Area in Additional
                         Area in      the Total     regulatory    Lot
                         regulatory   Area in       open space
                         open space   regulatory    (sq. ft.)
                         (sq. ft.)    open space
                                      (sq. ft.)
Conservation
Residential, 2.5         10,000       8,000         6,000         8,872 sq. ft.
Low Density
(LCR)
Conservation
Residential,                                                      14,816 sq.
Very Low     1.5         15,000       8,000         6,000         ft.
Density
(VLCR)
 
Notes:
Reduction in lot size due to twenty (20) percent or greater area in regulatory
open space will be reduced incrementally until the maximum development density
or minimum lot size is achieved, whichever occurs first.
The amount of bonus open space required is based on the following ratio:
In VLCR, a density bonus equal to three percent (3%) of the base number of lots
is allowed for each one percent (1%) of bonus open space provided from the
potential developable area of the site.
In LCR, a density bonus equal to five percent (5%) of the base number of lots
is allowed for each one percent (1%) of bonus open space provided from the
potential developable area of the site.
LCR Example (continued from
4.4.3(E)(1) above):
 
             Base Number of
Size of Site Lots           Bonus Open Space  Additional Lots  Gross Density
             [see Section                     (Density Bonus)  (d.u./acre)
             4.4.3 (E)]
                            16 acres (20% of
100 Acres    78             potential         78 (100% more)   1.6
                            developable area)
                            24 acres (30% of
100 Acres    78             potential         117 (150% more)  2.0
                            developable area)
 
      (G)   Bonus Open Space Requirements
         All bonus open space provided must meet the following standards:
         (1)   Bonus open space shall be retained in a natural, undisturbed
state, with the exception of those activities allowed by this Section. No more
than five percent (5%) of the bonus open space area may be disturbed and
allowed to be planted with grass or improved with other pervious ground cover
in order to provide common informal gardens and/or play/open areas for the
development or for the extension of main water and sewer lines. The five
percent (5%) does not include disturbed areas due to the installation of
required pedestrian systems (e.g., sidewalks, trails). However, active
recreation facilities (e.g., basketball and tennis courts) are not permitted in
the bonus open space used to obtain additional lots.
         (2)   In order to use the bonus density provisions of the Conservation
Residential Overlay District, per part (F) of this Section, the subdivision
must, at a minimum, provide an eighty (80) foot deep Type A opaque streetscape
buffer along all of the subdivision's thoroughfare and collector road frontage.
The amount of the eighty (80) foot deep streetscape buffer that is in excess of
the amount of streetscape buffer normally required for a conventional
subdivision under the requirements of
Chapter 7 (See Section
7.2.4) qualifies as non-regulatory or bonus open space. Credit for bonus open
space beyond a thirty (30) foot streetscape width may be allowed along
thoroughfares that are designed as only two (2) lane roadways (similar to a
collector roadway).
         (3)   Bonus open space shall be no less than thirty (30) feet in width
at any point.
         (4)   Pedestrian access trails to the bonus open space areas shall be
provided.
         (5)   No portion of the bonus open space shall be separated into non-
contiguous segments smaller than thirty percent (30%) of the total bonus open
space area. Open space divided by a roadway shall be defined as contiguous as
well as open space adjacent to or across a roadway from regulatory stream and/
or urban transition buffers.
         (6)   Credit for bonus open space may be provided for the preservation
of contributing historic structure(s) within the Green Level National Register
Historic District. This refers to the primary contributing structure on the
site, such as the main farmhouse, as identified in the Green Level Historic
District National Register Nomination document. The primary contributing
structure must be located within a site containing at least one (1) acre of
contiguous open space in order to better maintain the structure within its
context in the landscape. Preservation is defined as the active restoration or
rehabilitation and the ongoing maintenance of a structure. To qualify a primary
contributing structure for the density bonus option, the property owner shall
enter a preservation agreement with a qualified preservation organization.
Preservation agreements may include, but are not limited to, historic
preservation easements, facade and exterior covenants, or other methods
acceptable to the Town.
         The primary contributing structure within the Green Level National
Register Historic District shall count as one (1) acre of bonus open space,
provided that the structure is preserved and/or rehabilitated to the Secretary
of the Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation. The primary structure must also
be included within at least one (1) acre of bonus open space to preserve rural
character features. This bonus open space may be used in a way that reflects
the historic use of the property. If these requirements are met, a minimum of
two (2) acres of open space may be credited to obtain bonus lots.
         (7)   The bonus open space shall be shown on the development plan,
with a notation to indicate that the bonus open space shall not be used for
future structures.
         (8)   The developer shall establish and incorporate a Homeowners'
Association (HOA), which shall own the bonus open space and have the
responsibility for maintaining the bonus open space and associated facilities
at its own expense. An exception to the ownership of a portion of the bonus
open space surrounding a contributing historic structure(s) within the Green
Level National Register Historic District may be provided on a case by case
basis. As an alternative to an HOA, a private, non-profit organization, whose
primary purpose is open space conservation or preservation can own and manage
the bonus open space.
         (9)   A portion or all of the bonus open space may be conveyed to the
Town for use as greenways and parkland, provided it meets Town standards for
such facilities and is agreed to by the Town. Such conveyance would occur at no
cost to the Town.
      (H)   Additional Design Requirements
         (1)   Lot Dimensions
            (a)   For LCR lots, all dimensional requirements (i.e., setbacks,
lot width) shall conform to R-8: Residential District standards with the
exception of side yards. Side yards shall be a minimum of five (5) feet and an
aggregate minimum of fifteen (15) feet. Residential lots less than eight
thousand (8,000) square feet shall conform to TR: Transition Residential
District standards.
            (b)   For VLCR, R-12 dimensional requirements shall be used for
lots twelve thousand (12,000) square feet and greater in size. For lots between
eleven thousand nine hundred ninety-nine (11,999) and eight thousand (8,000)
square feet, R-8 dimensional requirements shall be used. For lots less than
eight thousand (8,000) square feet, TR dimensional requirements shall be used.
         (2)   Where lots abut other residential lots within an existing
subdivision that is not developed pursuant to Sections 4.4.3(D) through (H),
said lots shall have a side and rear yard setback not less than the required
side and rear yard setback required on the abutting property or the side and
rear yard setback of the Residential 40 District.
         (3)   All streetscapes along thoroughfares and collectors shall be
planted to a Type A standard.
         (4)   American Tobacco Trail (ATT) Buffer - A buffer of fifty (50)
feet in width is required along the American Tobacco Trail. The buffer shall
function as visual separation between the public trail and private property; it
shall contain native plant material, supplemented where necessary with
deciduous and evergreen trees to provide an opaque screen for the benefit of
trail users and adjoining property owners. The buffer shall conform to the
requirements of a Type 'A' Buffer as described in LDO Section
7.2.3(D). The fifty (50) foot wide buffer is not counted as bonus open space.
         (5)   No lot(s) shown on a development plan may be cleared or graded
until the building permit for the lot is approved. Exceptions to this
requirement may be considered based on factors related to the installation of
roadways, public utilities or significant topographic issues. This exception
must be approved by the Town based on written justification.
         (6)   Streets shall be designed and located as to preserve and
maintain the natural topography and topographic features, as well as to
minimize cut and fill practices.
         (7)   [Reserved]
         (8)   The requirements of Section
7.3, Stormwater Management, shall be achieved using LID site planning and
techniques or a combination of LID and conventional stormwater management
practices. The goal of LID is to develop site design techniques, strategies,
and best management practices (BMPs) to store, infiltrate, evaporate, retain,
and detain run-off on the site to more closely replicate pre-development run-
off characteristics and to better mimic the natural and unique hydrology of the
site thereby limiting the increase in pollutant loads caused by development. To
the extent practical, stormwater shall be treated at its source through the use
of small, non-structural BMPs and natural conveyance devices (swales, etc.).
All BMPs shall be located in areas owned by the HOA or other entity (see
4.4.3(G)(8)) to ensure adequate maintenance. Structural BMPs may not be located
in the bonus open space.
         (9)   Pedestrian Connectivity: A comprehensive pedestrian system shall
be provided that makes the contiguous open space accessible to neighborhood
residents and connects the open space to neighborhood streets. Limited
pedestrian access shall be provided through Urban Transition Buffers and
floodplain areas in accordance with the standards of this Ordinance.
            Pedestrian connectivity shall be provided through an integrated
combination of: primary trails, consisting of public sidewalks and greenways;
and secondary trails consisting of private trails that provide connections
within the development from public sidewalks and greenways to open space areas.
            Public greenway trails shall be those depicted on the Parks,
Recreation_and_Cultural_Resources_Facilities_Master_Plan. Such trails shall be
ten (10) feet wide and constructed within a thirty (30) foot wide permanent
Town of Cary greenway easement. The Town shall maintain all public greenway
trails.
            Secondary trails shall be constructed of asphalt, with a minimum
width of eight (8) feet. Where feasible, secondary trails shall be located
within Homeowners' Association (HOA) maintained common open space. In cases
where this is not feasible, a twenty (20)-foot wide private pedestrian easement
centered on these trails must be recorded and any required building setback
shall be calculated from the outside boundary of the easement on the lot. All
secondary trails shall be owned and maintained by the subdivision HOA and shall
be available for public use.
   4.4.4   [RESERVED]
   4.4.5   Airport Overlay
      (A)   Purpose and Intent
         The Airport Overlay is established to accomplish the following
purposes:
         (1)   To limit allowable land uses in the immediate vicinity of
Raleigh-Durham International Airport to non-residential uses, such as
industrial, agricultural, commercial, or conservation uses, which are not
subject to high population concentrations, and to keep residential and
institutional uses from developing in those areas that are subject to the
highest levels of aircraft noise;
         (2)   To ensure that such uses are located, designed, constructed, and
maintained in a manner that does not impair the safe operation of the airport;
         (3)   To ensure that such uses contribute to the attractiveness of the
roadside, which will in turn contribute to and enhance trade, tourism, capital
investment, property values, and the general welfare; and
         (4)   To ensure that such uses are in compliance with the Raleigh-
Durham International Airport Height Zoning Ordinance and other supplemental
regulations.
      (B)   Location and Applicability; Compliance Required
         The Airport Overlay is an overlay district that applies over lands in
the vicinity of the Raleigh-Durham International Airport. The boundaries of the
Airport Overlay shall be shown on the Official Zoning Map.
      (C)   Process for Reviewing Developments; Approval by the Raleigh-Durham
Airport Authority
         (1)   Raleigh-Durham Airport Authority Approval
            The authority shall be involved with the review of development
plans and building permits for structures over fifty (50) feet as measured to
the highest part of the structure. The following requirements are to ensure
compliance with the authority's ordinances.
            (a)   No development plan for property located within the Overlay
may be approved unless notification has been received from the Airport
Authority that the development complies with its Height Zoning Ordinance and
any other supplemental regulations that may apply. The applicant is required to
secure and provide the necessary documentation from the Authority on compliance
with its ordinances to the Planning Director.
            (b)   No building permit shall be issued for establishment of a
structure or expansion of an existing structure at a height of greater than
fifty (50) feet unless there has first been issued by the Raleigh-Durham
Airport Authority (1) a permit for the structure under the provisions of its
ordinances, or (2) a determination that a permit is not required for the
structure.
         (2)   Supplemental Regulations of the Raleigh-Durham International
Airport Authority
            All development within the Airport Overlay shall also comply with
the airspace regulations adopted by the Raleigh-Durham International Airport
Authority, as may be amended from time to time, which are incorporated herein
by reference. Whenever said airspace regulations impose more stringent
requirements or limitations than are required by this Ordinance, the provisions
of the airspace regulations shall control.
      (D)   Prohibited Uses and Structures
         (1)   Prohibited Uses
            (a)   Residential uses, including all forms of dwellings,
manufactured homes, nursing homes, and life care communities;
            (b)   Places of public assembly and institutional uses including
schools, colleges, churches, day care centers, clubs and lodges, libraries,
museums, and hospitals, but not including arenas or stadiums for sporting
events;
            (c)   Indoor and outdoor amusement establishments;
            (d)   Guest houses;
            (e)   Correctional or penal institutions;
            (f)   Radio and television broadcasting stations;
            (g)   Landfills or quarries;
            (h)   Warehousing/above-ground bulk storage of explosive,
hazardous, flammable, or combustible materials, and related facilities or
operations that could pose a threat to the welfare of the public in the event
of an aircraft crash or other mishap;
            (i)   Petroleum refining and other related uses that may be
susceptible to explosion or fire;
            (j)   Outdoor storage of certain goods and materials, including but
not limited to the following: oxides; coal; ores; minerals; produce; furniture;
flammable or combustible building supplies; paper and frame products; or
wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled vehicles.
            (k)   Wildlife sanctuaries, refuges, and other uses that may be an
attractant to birds.
         (2)   Prohibited Lighting
            (a)   Any moving, pulsating, flashing, rotating, or oscillating
light, other than navigational markings or lights marking potential
obstructions in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration requirements;
            (b)   Flood lights, spot lights, or other lighting devices which
are not shielded so as to prevent illumination in an upward direction;
            (c)   Any lights which make it difficult for pilots to distinguish
between airport lights and others, results in glare in the eyes of pilots using
the airport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of the airport or otherwise in
any way endangers or interferes with the landing, takeoff or maneuvering of
aircraft intending to use the airport.
         (3)   Prohibited Electronic Signals
            Any electronic impulse or signal which interferes with radio
communications between aircraft and the airport, or which interferes with
established navigation aids, is prohibited in the Airport Overlay.
         (4)   Prohibited Structures
            Structures in excess of the applicable height limit established for
the Zones specified in the "Raleigh-Durham International Airport Height Zoning
Ordinance" adopted by the Raleigh-Durham Airport Authority and as may be
amended from time to time by the Raleigh-Durham Airport Authority are
prohibited in the Airport Overlay. Structure means an object, including a
mobile object, constructed, or installed by man, including, but not limited to,
buildings, towers, cranes, earth formations, and overhead transmission lines.
      (E)   Nonconforming Uses and Structures
         Nonconforming uses and structures may be continued in the Airport
Overlay in accordance with
Chapter 10 of this Ordinance. However, no building permit shall be issued that
would allow the expansion of a structure or use that does not comply with the
requirements of this Ordinance.
      (F)   Location of Buildings and Parking Areas
         All buildings and structures located in the Airport Overlay shall meet
the minimum setback requirements of the underlying zoning district and any
other applicable setback requirements set forth elsewhere in this Ordinance.
All parking areas in the Airport Overlay shall be located no less than thirty
(30) feet from the right-of-way of a major thoroughfare.
   4.4.6   Watershed Protection Overlay
      (A)   Purpose and Intent
         The intent of the Watershed Protection Overlay is to ensure the
availability of public water supplies at a safe and acceptable level of water
quality for present and future residents of the Town and the surrounding
region. Watershed protection measures allowed by this section include:
         (1)   Restriction of land uses allowed within water supply basins;
         (2)   Impervious area and density limitations; and
         (3)   Engineered stormwater control measures and the best management
practices as listed in the Department of Environmental Quality State Design
Manual.
      (B)   Applicability
         (1)   Designated Watersheds
            The Watershed Protection Overlay is an overlay district to be
applied to all lands lying within the watershed of a public water supply. The
boundaries of the Watershed Protection Overlay shall be shown on the Town of
Cary Official Zoning Map. The Watershed Protection Overlay consists of three
sub-areas:
            (a)   Swift Creek Watershed;
            (b)   Jordan Lake Watershed; and
            (c)   Jordan Lake Watershed Critical Water Quality Area.
         (2)   Applicability to Development Activity
            (a)   The following types of development activity are exempt from
the requirements of this Section
4.4.6:
               1.   Development existing prior to June 30, 1993;
               2.   Development on vacant lots inside of PDs approved prior to
June 30, 1993;
               3.   Development on vacant lands in subdivisions platted prior
to June 30, 1993, unless such lands have undergone a zoning change after June
30, 1993 and new development is required to submit a development plan; and
               4.   Redevelopment provided there is no increase in the total
amount of impervious surface for a lot or development site.
            (b)   The requirements of this Section
4.4.6 shall apply to the following:
               1.   Vacant land that is rezoned from its designation in place
on June 30, 1993;
               2.   New lands added to a planned development after June 30,
1993, even if the original planned development was approved prior to June 30,
1993;
               3.   Development in a planned development if the development had
to be amended after June 30, 1993, to accommodate the development;
               4.   Any expansions to existing development in place as of June
30, 1993 (provisions are only applied to the addition, not the impervious
surface in place on June 30, 1993).
         (3)   Sedimentation and Erosion Control
            Responsible control of erosion and sedimentation is crucial to the
protection of stormwater quality and the continued proper function of the
measures required in this section. Requirements pertaining to sedimentation and
erosion control are addressed in Section
14.4 of this Ordinance.
      (C)   Procedures for Development Approval
         (1)   Development Review
            All development within the Watershed Protection Overlay shall
demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Section
4.4.6 at the time of approval of a development plan. Applicants complying with
the standards of this section must also satisfy all other applicable
requirements and obtain all other necessary approvals or permits under this
Ordinance.
         (2)   Protection Measures Prerequisite to Certificate of Occupancy
            A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued for any development
in the Watershed Protection Overlay until all of the watershed protection
measures required by this section have been approved and are in place on the
property.
      (D)   Overview of High Density and Low Density Development Options
         There are two (2) development options in the Watershed Protection
Overlay, a Low Density Option and a High Density Option, each with different
provisions related to either the Swift Creek Watershed or the Jordan Lake
Watershed as well as to sub-areas within either watershed.
         (1)   Impervious Surfaces
            The maximum allowable amount of impervious surface within a
proposed development is limited based upon the Low or High Density Option, and
differs from Watershed to watershed as depicted in Table
4.4-5.
         (2)   Calculation of Impervious Surfaces
            Calculation of impervious surface area shall include the pavement
area of all existing and proposed internal public and private streets, one-half
(1/2) of the width of roadways on the perimeter of the project, driveways,
rooftops, parking lots, patios, and all other impervious surfaces. For the
purpose of calculating the impervious surface of roadways on the perimeter of a
project, the ultimate pavement cross section of the roadway based on the
Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan and any sidewalk(s) or greenway(s) along the
perimeter roadway will be included in the calculation. For purposes of
calculating the percentage of impervious area coverage, the total project area
shall be regarded as the actual area of the property plus the area within the
rights-of-way of the internal and perimeter streets included in the calculation
of impervious area.
         (3)   Residential Density
            In addition to limitations on the amount of impervious surface, the
Low and High Density Development Options limit the gross residential densities
of projects based upon the watershed where they are proposed, with higher
densities allowed under the High Density Option as depicted in Table
4.4-5.
         (4)   Runoff Control
            Engineered stormwater control measures intended to contain the
runoff from the first one (1) inch of rainfall are required in any development
utilizing the High Density Option in either watershed.
      (E)   Restrictions on Allowed Uses
         The uses allowed within the Watershed Protection Overlay are the same
as the uses permitted in the general use zoning district within which the land
is located, pursuant to Table
5.1-1. However, the following uses are allowed within the overlay district only
if they comply with the performance standards set forth in this Section
4.4.6.
         (1)   Swift Creek Watershed and the Jordan Lake Watershed
            (a)   All industrial service uses;
            (b)   All waste-related uses;
            (c)   Uses producing and/or storing toxic and/or hazardous
materials; and
            (d)   Any use discharging sewage, industrial waste and/or non-
process industrial waste.
         (2)   Jordan Lake Watershed Critical Water Quality Area
            All uses set forth in paragraph (1) above; and all agricultural
uses.
      (F)   Limitations on Impervious Surface Area and Density
         (1)   Low Density Option
            Maximum impervious surface limits for the Low Density Option are
set forth in the table below. Separate regulations are provided for the Jordan
Lake and Swift Creek areas. The Jordan Lake regulations recognize two sub-
areas, the Critical Area and the remainder of the watershed; while the Swift
Creek regulations distinguish between three (3) different sub-areas: New
Suburban, New Urban, and Existing Urban development. These sub-areas are
depicted on the Town's Official Zoning Map.
TABLE 4.4-4: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE LIMITS: LOW DENSITY OPTION
Suburban-New                Urban-New                   Existing Urban
Residential Non-Residential Residential Non-Residential Residential and Non-
                                                        Residential
Swift Creek Watershed
TABLE 4.4-4: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE LIMITS: LOW DENSITY OPTION
Suburban-New                                                                          Urban-New               Existing
                                                                                                              Urban
                                                                          Non-                    Non-        Residential
Residential                                                               Residential Residential Residential and Non-
                                                                                                              Residential
Swift Creek Watershed
                                                                                      Six (6.0)
                                                                                      dwelling
                                                                                      units per
                                                                                      acre east
                                                                                      of Holly
                                                                                      Springs and             The
                                                                                      Jones                   impervious
                                                                                      Franklin                surface of
                                                                                      Roads,                  the
                                                                                      Greater                 underlying
                                                                                      than six                zoning of
Two and one-half (2.5) dwelling units per acre not to exceed twelve (12) Twelve (12) (6.0) units Twelve (12) the
percent impervious surface area.                                          percent     per acre    percent     property
                                                                                      west of                 not to
                                                                                      Holly                   exceed
                                                                                      Springs and             twelve (12)
                                                                                      Jones                   percent
                                                                                      Franklin                impervious
                                                                                      Roads, not              surface
                                                                                      to exceed               area.
                                                                                      twelve (12)
                                                                                      percent,
                                                                                      impervious
                                                                                      surface
                                                                                      area.
Jordan Lake Watershed
Impervious surfaces shall not exceed twenty-four (24) percent of the project area, or two (2)  dwelling units  per acre;
or three (3)  dwelling units  per acre and thirty-six (36) percent  impervious surface area  for projects containing
streets built without curbs and gutters.
Jordan Lake Watershed Critical Area
Non-residential and multi-family residential development's impervious surface ratios shall not exceed twenty-four (24)
percent. Residential density (other than multi-family) shall not exceed two (2) dwelling units per acre.
 
         (2)   High Density Option
            High Density Option development proposals may be approved, provided
that the development applications are consistent with the following standards:
TABLE 4.4-5: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE LIMITS: HIGH DENSITY OPTION
 Suburban-New                Urban-New                   Existing Urban
 Residential Non-Residential Residential Non-Residential Residential and Non-
                                                         Residential
Swift Creek Watershed
TABLE 4.4-5: MAXIMUM IMPERVIOUS SURFACE LIMITS: HIGH DENSITY OPTION
            Suburban-New              Urban-New                   Existing
                                                                  Urban
                         Non-                       Non-          Residential
            Residential  Residential  Residential   Residential   and Non-
                                                                  Residential
Swift Creek Watershed
                                      Six (6.0)
                                      dwelling
                                      units per
                                      acre east of
                         The          Holly Springs
            Two and one- impervious   and Jones     The           The
            half (2.5)   area allowed Franklin      impervious    impervious
            dwelling     under the    Roads.        area allowed  area allowed
Maximum     units per    underlying   Greater than  under the     under the
Impervious  acre not to  general use  six (6.0)     underlying    underlying
Surface     exceed       zoning       units per     general use   general use
Limits      thirty (30)  districts,   acre west of  zoning        zoning
            percent      not to       Holly Springs districts,    districts,
            impervious   exceed       and Jones     not to exceed not to exceed
            surface      thirty (30)  Franklin      seventy (70)  seventy (70)
            area.        percent .    Roads, not to percent .     percent .
                                      exceed
                                      seventy (70)
                                      percent
                                      impervious
                                      surface area.
Sewer       Required                                            
            Required to contain and treat the runoff from the first one (1)
Impoundment inch of rainfall and to achieve a minimum of eighty-five (85)
and         percent average annual removal for Total Suspended Solids (TSS).
Maintenance Public or private maintenance. [Other SCMs besides impoundments may
            be available; consult the Department of Environmental Quality State
            Design Manual.]
Jordan Lake Watershed
Where new development exceeds the Low Density Option Standards above,
stormwater control measures shall be used to control and treat runoff from the
first inch of rainfall and to achieve a minimum of eighty-five (85) percent
average annual removal for Total Suspended Solids (TSS). Development shall not
exceed seventy (70) percent impervious surface area.
Jordan Lake Watershed Critical Area
Where proposed development exceeds the Low Density Option Standards above,
stormwater control measures are required to control and treat runoff from the
first inch of rainfall and to achieve a minimum of eighty-five (85) percent
average annual removal for Total Suspended Solids (TSS). Development shall not
exceed fifty (50) percent impervious surface area.
 
      (G)   Engineered Stormwater Control Measures
         (1)   Ownership and Design Requirements
            Stormwater control measures shall be owned by a property owner's
association, or, for non-residential or multi-family development, the owner of
the property. All stormwater control measures shall be designed by either a
North Carolina registered professional engineer or landscape architect, to the
extent that the N.C. General Statutes allow. Other stormwater systems shall be
designed by a North Carolina registered professional with qualifications
appropriate for the type of system required; these registered professionals are
defined as professional engineers, landscape architects, to the extent that the
N.C. General Statutes allow and land surveyors, to the extent that the design
represents incidental drainage within a subdivision, as provided in N.C.
General Statutes.
         (2)   Measures Required for High-Density Option
            (a)   All development under the high-density option shall use
engineered stormwater control measures as a primary treatment system.
Engineered stormwater control measures shall be designed for specific pollutant
removal according to modeling techniques approved by the North Carolina
Department of Environmental Quality. Specific requirements for these systems
shall be in accordance with the State’s Minimum Design Criteria and Cary’s
Standard Engineering Details and Specifications Manual.
            (b)   SCM’s that control stormwater on a runoff volume basis may be
used in lieu of an SCM designed for specific pollutant removal in accordance
with Section
4.4.6(G)(2)(a) provided that the post development volume of stormwater leaving
the site is equal to or less than the predevelopment volume for the ninetieth
(90th) percentile storm.
         (3)   Ground Cover Required
            In addition to the vegetative filters required in Cary’s Standard
Engineering Details and Specifications Manual, all land areas outside of the
engineered stormwater control measures shall be provided with a ground cover
sufficient to restrain erosion within fifteen (15) days after any land
disturbance. Upon completion of the stormwater control measure, a permanent
ground cover shall be established and maintained as part of the maintenance
plan described in Section
4.4.6(G)(8) below.
         (4)   Legal Description Required
            A legal description of the area containing the stormwater control
measure shall be prepared and filed consistent with Section
4.4.6(G)(8) as a separate deed with the appropriate County’s Register of Deeds
along with any easements necessary for general access to the stormwater control
measure. The deeded area shall include sufficient area to perform inspections,
maintenance, repairs and reconstruction. The deeded area shall include, but is
not limited to detention pond, vegetative filters, all pipes and water control
structures, berms and dikes.
         (5)   Computation of Total Built-Upon Area
            Qualifying areas of the stormwater control measure may be
considered pervious when computing total built-upon area. However, if the
measure is used to compute the percentage built-upon area for one (1) site, it
shall not be used to compute the built-upon area for any other site or area.
         (6)   Stormwater Control Measures
            Stormwater Control Measures (SCM) including Regional SCM’s designed
following the State Design Manual and Cary’s Standard Engineering Details and
Specifications Manual, properly constructed, with all required financial
assurances and maintenance agreements in place may be regarded as adequate to
satisfy the requirements of the entire upstream contributory drainage basin.
         (7)   Establishment of a Dedicated Maintenance Account
            Owners of a privately owned and maintained stormwater control
measure shall establish, collect, and retain funds in a segregated account
equal to ten (10) percent of the stormwater control measure’s original cost of
construction as determined by a licensed Professional Engineer. Such funds
shall be used solely for the purposes of maintaining, repairing, replacing, and
reconstructing the owner’s stormwater control measures. The required funds
shall be collected and retained in the segregated account within five (5) years
from the date of the Certificate of Watershed Compliance.
         (8)   Certificate of Watershed Compliance
            (a)   Easement and Maintenance Agreement
               For all development built under the high-density development
option, the owner shall enter into a binding Stormwater Control Structure
Access and Easement Agreement (Easement and Maintenance Agreement) with the
Town. Said Easement and Maintenance Agreement shall require the owning entity
to inspect, maintain, repair and, if necessary, reconstruct the stormwater
control measure in accordance with the operation and maintenance plan or manual
provided by the owner. The owner of the stormwater control measure shall file
the Easement and Maintenance Agreement with the appropriate County’s Register
of Deeds.
            (b)   The Stormwater Manager shall inspect the stormwater control
measure after the owning entity notifies the Stormwater Manager that all
construction-related work has been completed. At this inspection, the owning
entity shall provide the following documents for the Stormwater Manager’s
review:
               1.   The executed deed, related easements, maintenance
agreement, and survey plat for the stormwater control measure ready for filing
with the appropriate County’s Register of Deeds;
               2.   A certification sealed by a qualified professional stating
that the stormwater control measure is complete and complies fully with the
approved plans and specifications; and
               3.   Reproducible as built plans and/or record drawings showing
the stormwater control measures.
            (c)   If deficiencies are found in the documents required by
Section
4.4.6(G)(8)(b), the Stormwater Manager shall direct the owning entity to
correct the deficiencies, make improvements, and/or correct the documents and
submit proof of the corrections and/or improvements to the Stormwater Manager.
            (d)   Upon the Stormwater Manager’s approval of the documents, the
owning entity shall file the Easement and Maintenance Agreement and survey plat
with the appropriate Counties’ Register of Deeds and provide proof of
recordation to the Stormwater Manager.
            (e)   Following approval of Cary’s inspection, receipt of all
required documents required by section
4.4.6(G)(8)(b), and proof of the establishment of a dedicated maintenance
account as required by Section
4.4.6(G)(7), the Stormwater Manager will issue a Certificate of Watershed
Compliance.
            (f)   A Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued for the final
building within the permitted development until the Stormwater Manager has
issued the Certificate of Watershed Compliance.
         (9)   Maintenance and Inspections
            (a)   An operation and maintenance plan or manual shall be provided
by the developer for each stormwater control measure, indicating what operation
and maintenance actions are needed, what specific quantitative criteria will be
used for determining when those actions are to be taken and who is responsible
for those actions. The plan shall clearly indicate the steps that will be taken
for restoring a stormwater control measure to design specifications if a
failure occurs.
            (b)   The owner of each stormwater control measure shall submit a
Maintenance Inspection Report annually on the anniversary date of the
Certificate of Watershed Compliance to the Stormwater Manager. A qualified
professional, licensed in the state of North Carolina, shall conduct the
inspection. Records of inspection shall be maintained on forms approved or
supplied by Cary and shall be provided to the Stormwater Manager in a timely
manner.
            (c)   In the event the annual inspection reveals the need for
corrective action or improvements, the Stormwater Manager shall notify the
owning entity of the needed improvements and the date by which the corrective
action is to be completed. All improvements shall be made consistent with the
plans and specifications of the stormwater control measure and the operation
and maintenance plan or manual as provided by Section
4.4.6(G)(9)(a). After all corrective actions have been taken, the qualified
professional shall re-inspect the stormwater control measure and certify that
the appropriate corrective actions have been taken.
            (d)   Landscaping and grounds management shall be the
responsibility of the owning entity. However, vegetation shall not be
established or allowed to mature to the extent that the integrity of the
stormwater control measure is diminished or threatened, or to the extent of
interfering with any easement or access to the stormwater control measure.
            (e)   Except for general landscaping and grounds management, the
owning entity shall notify the Stormwater Manager prior to any repair or
reconstruction of the stormwater control measure. All improvements shall be
made consistent with the approved plans and specifications of the stormwater
control measure and the operation and maintenance plan or manual. After all
repairs have been completed, the owning entity shall engage the services of a
qualified professional, licensed in the state of North Carolina, to inspect
said improvements and to issue a report to the Stormwater Manager. The owning
entity shall perform all additions, changes, or modifications noted in the
inspection report supplied by the qualified professional in a timely manner.
            (f)   The Stormwater Manager retains the right to perform
inspections, deemed necessary by the Stormwater Manager, on any stormwater
control measure.
            (g)   Amendments to the plans and specifications of the stormwater
control measure and/or the operation and maintenance plan or manual shall be
submitted to the Stormwater Manager for review. Proposed changes shall be
prepared by a qualified professional.
               1.   If the Stormwater Manager approves the proposed changes,
the owning entity of the stormwater control measure shall file sealed copies of
the revisions with the Office of the Stormwater Manager.
               2.   If the Stormwater Manager disapproves the changes, the
proposal may be revised and resubmitted as a new proposal. If the proposal has
not been revised and is essentially the same as that already reviewed, it shall
be returned to the applicant.
            (h)   If the Stormwater Manager finds that the operation and
maintenance plan or manual is inadequate for any reason the Stormwater Manager
shall notify the owning entity of any required changes and the owning entity
shall prepare and file copies of the revised agreement first with the
appropriate County’s Register of Deeds. The owning entity shall then file a
copy certified by the Register of Deeds with the Stormwater Manager.
         (10)   Appeals of any order, requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Stormwater Manager pursuant to this Section
4.4.6(G) may be made to and decided by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (H)   Clustered Development Option
         Clustering of development in the Watershed Protection Overlay may be
allowed as an optional configuration in either Low Density or High Density
developments on a project-by-project basis. Clustering shall follow the
procedures and standards set forth in Section
8.4, and is subject to the following additional criteria:
         (1)   The overall density and/or impervious surface coverage of the
project may not exceed the density and/or impervious surface coverage allowed
under either the Low Density or the High Density option. At a minimum, lot
sizes shall conform to the standards of the TR district (see
Chapter 6) for residential cluster development projects; however the total
number of lots shall not exceed the number of lots allowed for residential
subdivision development under any
Chapter 4 zoning district; and
         (2)   Impervious surfaces shall be designed and sited to minimize
stormwater runoff impacts on the receiving waters and to minimize the
concentration of stormwater flow; and
         (3)   The remaining undeveloped portion of the tract shall remain in
an undisturbed vegetated or natural state. Where the development has an
established property owner's association, the title to the open space area
shall be conveyed to the association. Where a property owner's association has
not been established, a maintenance agreement shall be filed with the County's
Register of Deeds.
      (I)   Modifications and Variances
         Requests for relief from the requirements of this Section
4.4.6 shall be decided either by the Zoning Board of Adjustment or by the
Environmental Management Commission, depending on the watershed and the type of
standard from which relief is sought.
         (1)   Variances Granted by the Environmental Management Commission
            The Environmental Management Commission shall have the sole
authority to grant major variances from the provisions of this Section
4.4.6 for properties in the Jordan Lake Watershed and Jordan Lake Watershed
Critical Area. For purposes of this section, a major variance is a variance
from the minimum statewide watershed protection or Jordan Rules (contained in
15A NCAC Chapter 2B) that results in (a) the relaxation, by factor greater than
five percent (5%) of any buffer, density or built upon area requirement under
the high density option; (b) any variation in the design, maintenance or
operation requirements of a wet detention pond or other approved stormwater
management system; or (c) relaxation by a factor greater than ten percent
(10%), of any management requirement under the low density option.
         (2)   Modifications Granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment
            The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have primary, but not sole,
authority to grant modifications from the provisions of this Section
4.4.6 for properties in the Swift Creek Watershed, pursuant to this Sub-
section.
            (a)   In the Swift Creek Watershed, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
may modify the standards of Section
4.4.6(F), Limitations on Impervious Area and Density, where using perimeter or
adjacent roadways in the impervious surface calculation causes a development to
exceed the allowed impervious surface percentage.
            (b)   In the Swift Creek Watershed, the Zoning Board of Adjustment
may modify the standards of Section
4.4.6(F), Limitations on Impervious Area and Density, to allow impervious
surface ratios greater than twelve (12) percent but less than twenty-four (24)
percent. However, requests for relief greater than twenty-four (24) percent
shall be forwarded for review and decision by the Environmental Management
Commission.
         (3)   Recommendation by Zoning Board of Adjustment to the
Environmental Management Commission
            If an application calls for the granting of a modification as
listed in paragraph (2b) or paragraph (1) above that requires a decision by the
Environmental Management Commission, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall first
reach a recommendation on the modification in accord with the requirements of
Section
3.19. If the Zoning Board of Adjustment decides in favor of granting the
modification, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall prepare a preliminary record
of the hearing as soon as possible and forward it to the Environmental
Management Commission. The preliminary record of the hearing shall include:
            (a)   The modification application;
            (b)   The hearing notices;
            (c)   The evidence presented;
            (d)   Motions, offers of proof, objections to evidence, and rulings
on them;
            (e)   Proposed findings and exceptions;
            (f)   The proposed decision, including all conditions proposed to
be added to the permit.
         (4)   Decision by the Environmental Management Commission
            (a)   Approval
               If the Commission approves the variance as proposed or with
additional conditions, the Commission shall prepare a decision and send it to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall prepare a
final decision in accordance with the Commission's decision.
            (b)   Disapproval
               If the Commission denies the variance as proposed the Commission
will prepare a decision and send it to the Zoning Board of Adjustment. The
Zoning Board of Adjustment shall prepare a final decision in accordance with
the Commission's decision.
      (J)   Violations; Enforcement
         This Section
4.4.6 shall be enforced by the Town Manager or designee. Any person or
association who fails to comply with any provision of this Section
4.4.6, or who fails to submit a report, or who submits a fraudulent or false
report, shall be in violation of this Ordinance for each occurrence or non-
compliance.
   4.4.7   Historic Preservation Overlay
      (A)   Purpose and Intent
         The Historic Preservation Overlay is established with the purpose of
implementing additional protections and controls on properties and structures
located within locally designated Historic Districts. Local historic districts
shall be areas which are deemed to be of special significance in terms of their
history, architecture, and/or culture, and to possess integrity of design,
setting, materials, feeling, and association.
      (B)   Location of Districts and Applicability
         The provisions of the Historic Preservation Overlay shall apply to the
geographic areas designated as local historic districts on the Official Zoning
Map. All uses permitted in the zoning district underlying a historic district
are permitted in the historic preservation overlay.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05;
Ord. No. 05-015, 9-08-05; Ord. No. 06-005, adopted 3-23-06; eff. 3-23-06; Ord.
No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07;
Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-02, 3-26-09; Ord. No. 2009-
LDO-06, 8-13-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11;
Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-
LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-02, 6-26-14;
Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-05, 12-11-14; Ord. No. 2015-
LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-002, 6-25-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-
15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No.
2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-
10-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No.
2023-LDO-02, 3-23-23; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-
16-23)
4.5   FLEXIBLE USE DISTRICTS
   TABLE 4.5-1: FLEXIBLE USE DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
 
TABLE 4.5-1: FLEXIBLE USE DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED
District Name                      Abbreviation
Mixed Use District                 MXD
Minor Planned Development District PDD Minor
Major Planned Development District PDD Major
 
   4.5.1   Flexible Use Districts Generally
      (A)   Purpose of Flexible Use Districts
         Flexible Use Zoning Districts are districts in the nature of
legislatively approved conditional zoning districts that allow for the
establishment of certain uses, or mixes of uses, which because of their nature
or scale cannot be properly accommodated within a general use zoning district.
Flexible use zoning districts allow opportunity for greater flexibility in
design and development of property. Since flexible use zoning is not tied to a
corresponding general use zoning district and its associated zoning standards,
applicants requesting a flexible use zoning district for property may propose
zoning and development standards that are specific to that particular property
(or district) that can be more or less restrictive than standards associated
with general use districts. Flexible use districts permit multiple, coordinated
uses in an integrated concept; require an overall master development plan; and
provide suitable open space amenities, resource protection, gathering spaces,
recreational opportunities; and architectural cohesion.
      (B)   Process Required
         Rezoning to a flexible use district shall require submission and
approval of an application for a rezoning in accordance with the general
procedures set forth in Section
3.4.1, and any modifications applicable to the particular type of flexible use
district requested. A rezoning to a flexible use district may be initiated only
by an application signed by all of the owners of the property to be included in
the district or by an agent authorized by all of the owners to file such
application. If the application is approved, the Town Council shall adopt an
ordinance authorizing the requested use with such reasonable conditions as are
mutually approved by the applicant and Town Council and determined to be
desirable in promoting public health, safety and general welfare.
      (C)   Conditions
         (1)   Rezoning applications for a flexible use rezoning district
shall, depending on the type of flexible use district requested, include a
master land use plan, preliminary development plan or development plan that
specifies the use or uses that are intended for the property, as well as any
additional conditions on the use of the property that the applicant may propose
as conditions of the rezoning. The applicant may propose conditions regarding
building design elements as defined in G.S. 160D-702 and other development
considerations. Conditions are limited to:
            (a)   Those that address conformance of the development and use of
the site to Town ordinances or officially adopted plans; or
            (b)   Those that address the impacts reasonably expected to be
generated by the development and use of the site.
         (2)   No condition shall be made part of the application, or shall be
attached to approval of the flexible use district, which specifies the
ownership status, race, religion, or character of the occupants of housing
units, the minimum value of improvements, a minimum square footage of any
structures subject to regulation under the North Carolina Residential Code for
One- and Two-Family Dwellings, or any illegal exclusionary device; or which
states that the use of the property will not be subject to regulations or
restrictions set forth in this Ordinance which would apply to the property in
any event, such as the regulations for an overlay district which covers the
property.
   4.5.2   MXD: Mixed Use District
      This Mixed Use District (MXD) was established on August 13, 2009 and may
only be used in areas already zoned Mixed Use Overlay District (MUOD). In
support of the MUOD provisions, the Mixed Use District (MXD) is a type of
flexible zoning district that allows property owners to rezone land subject to
specific requirements set forth in a preliminary development plan.
      (A)   Intent
         Every rezoning to a MXD district must be accompanied by a preliminary
development plan (PDP) that illustrates how the proposed district is consistent
with and furthers policies identified in the Comprehensive Plan, applicable
requirements of the Land Development Ordinance, and other applicable plans,
ordinances and manuals identified in Section
1.4. Depending upon the location and the existing nature of development, it is
not the intent of a MXD district to require each separate building or every
individual development site to include a complete, integrated mix of land uses
but rather for the Mixed Use Overlay District as a whole to contain a mix of
uses designed to meet the Town's overall planning objectives.
      (B)   Approval Procedure
         Approval of a MXD district shall require a rezoning pursuant to the
procedure set forth in Section
3.4.5 which shall include submission, review, and approval of a preliminary
development plan (PDP) or development plan.
      (C)   Geographic Coverage
         Unless there is no adjacent or closely located property under the same
or closely related ownership that qualifies for MXD zoning a single, small
parcel or portion of a parcel should not be rezoned to a MXD district when a
larger geographic area of developable or redevelopable land could be included.
In keeping with the Town's longstanding preference for comprehensively planned
areas, the intent of this district is to encompass as much land area as
practicable to successfully implement the Comprehensive Plan. However,
depending upon the location, size and scale of the Mixed Use Overlay District,
nature of the property proposed to be rezoned, the existing zoning in the
vicinity, whether or not the adjoining land is developed or vacant, and
ownership patterns, the amount of land included in any MXD rezoning case may
vary and cannot be predicted in advance. Following a required presubmittal
meeting, the Development Review Committee staff will recommend the extent of
property(ies) that should be included in any Mixed Use District rezoning
application.
      (D)   General Use and Development Standards
         (1)   Uses Allowed
            The extent of appropriate uses and development intensity within
Mixed Use Overlay Districts increases from neighborhood to community to
regional in scale.
Table 5.1-1 found in
Chapter 5 of this Ordinance identifies allowed uses within each category.
         (2)   Applicable Standards
            There shall be no minimum dimensional standards for developments in
a MXD district. Dimensional standards shall be stated on the approved
preliminary development plan. The applicant shall demonstrate that the
requirements of the proposed MXD district satisfy applicable approval criteria.
            (a)   Development in a MXD district shall be subject to all
applicable overlay district regulations in Chapter 4, all applicable use
regulations set forth in Chapter 5, and all applicable general regulations set
forth in Chapters
6,
7, and
8, unless otherwise waived or modified by the approved preliminary development
plan. The application shall include development conditions assuring that the
proposed preliminary development will meet or exceed the standard requirements
of the aforementioned chapters. The preliminary development plan may modify
procedural requirements of this Ordinance. Where the preliminary development
plan is silent as to a term or requirements, the requirements/standards of this
Ordinance and the approved policies and procedures of the Town shall control.
            (b)   Notwithstanding paragraph (a) above, in no case shall the
Town Council approve an MXD zoning district and associated preliminary
development plan that waives or modifies environmental or infrastructure
adequacy standards for a proposed MXD zoning district including but not limited
to:
               1.   Zones 1, 2, and 3 of urban transition buffers;
               2.   [Reserved];
               3.   Stormwater control requirements, and
               4.   Nitrogen reduction requirements.
      (E)   Considerations for Mixed Use District Rezonings
         In addition to the considerations for a general rezoning contained in
Section 3.4.1(E), and without limiting council’s broad discretion, council may,
when reviewing a proposed rezoning request to a MXD district, consider whether
         (1)   The preliminary development plan includes an appropriate
intensity, type, and mix of land uses, as outlined by the guidelines contained
in the Comprehensive Plan. This may be assessed in relation to the scale of the
Mixed Use Overlay District and the mix and relationship of existing and planned
uses, including residential, commercial, office, and institutional uses;
         (2)   The preliminary development plan shows how the proposed
development will meet or exceed the Site Design Standards and other established
Town standards, including connections and linkages to immediately adjacent
properties;
         (3)   The preliminary development plan provides the expected land
uses, including medium- and higher-density housing, outlined by the numerical
and other guidelines contained in the Comprehensive Plan;
         (4)   The preliminary development plan includes some formal outdoor
space(s) for public use, such as a park, village green, or plaza; and
         (5)   The preliminary development plan demonstrates that the proposed
development is appropriate for the context and location, responds to the unique
conditions of the area, and provides reasonable transitions within and adjacent
to the district.
      (F)   Changes to the Preliminary Development Plan Component of an
Approved MXD District
         Changes to preliminary development plans associated with previously-
approved MXD zoning districts shall only be allowed in accordance with the
provisions in Section
4.4.2(H) or as otherwise stated in this Ordinance.
   4.5.3   PDD: Planned Development Districts
      This section sets forth regulations for the two (2) types of planned
development district (PDD) zoning districts. All PDD zoning districts shall be
established either as initial zoning at the time of annexation, or through a
rezoning pursuant to the procedures and criteria for rezoning to PDD set forth
in Section 3.4.3. PDDs are base zoning districts under this Ordinance (rather
than overlay districts, which they were under the previous Unified Development
Ordinance).
      (A)   General Intent/Purposes of the PDD Districts
         The PDD zoning districts allow projects of innovative design and
layout that would not otherwise be permitted under this Ordinance because of
the strict application of zoning district or general development standards. The
PDD districts encourage innovative land planning and design concepts by:
         (1)   Reducing or eliminating the inflexibility that sometimes results
from strict application of zoning and development standards that were designed
primarily for individual lots;
         (2)   Allowing greater freedom in selecting the means to provide
access, light, open space, and design amenities;
         (3)   Allowing greater freedom in providing a mix of land uses in the
same development, including a mix of housing types, housing prices, lot sizes,
densities, and non-residential uses in a planned development;
         (4)   Promoting quality urban design and environmentally sensitive
development by allowing development to take advantage of special site
characteristics, locations, and land uses; and
         (5)   Encouraging quality urban design and environmentally sensitive
development by allowing increases in base densities when such increases can be
justified by superior design or the provision of additional amenities such as
public and/or private open space.
         In return for greater flexibility in site design requirements, planned
developments are expected to deliver exceptional quality community designs that
preserve critical environmental resources, provide above-average open space
amenities, incorporate creative design in the layout of buildings, open space
and circulation; assure compatibility with surrounding land uses and
neighborhood character; and provide greater efficiency in the layout and
provision of roads, utilities, and other infrastructure. The PDD districts
shall not be used as a means of circumventing the Town's adopted land
development regulations for routine developments.
      (B)   Types of PDD Districts
         (1)   Major PDD District
            Lands rezoned to the Major PDD district shall be twenty-five (25)
acres or more in size.
         (2)   Minor PDD District
            Lands rezoned to the Minor PDD district shall be at least ten (10)
and less than twenty-five (25) acres in size.
      (C)   Designation Procedure
         Designation of either a Major or Minor PDD shall require a rezoning
pursuant to the procedure set forth in Section
3.4.3, which shall include submission, review, and approval of a planned
development master plan. Simultaneous submission of a development plan is
optional for a Major or Minor PDD application.
      (D)   General Use and Development Standards for All PDD Districts
         (1)   Uses Allowed
            A planned development may contain any or all of the uses specified
in the approved PDD master plan, provided such uses are consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan. A wide range of uses is possible in a PDD district, and the
specific uses allowed may be different in each PDD district, so the use tables
in
Chapter 5 (
Table 5.1-1) do not include the PDD districts. All uses that are set out in an
approved master plan shall be treated as permitted uses within the planned
development, except that uses which are prohibited in this Ordinance shall not
be permitted within a PDD. Any use not set out in an approved master plan is a
prohibited use, except that accessory uses shall be permitted unless explicitly
prohibited. The PDD master plan and/or document shall specify the particular
use(s) permitted and their locations within the areas of the PDD. Specific use
designations in the PDD shall use the same corresponding terms listed in
Chapter 5 of this Ordinance.
         (2)   Mixed Uses Encouraged
            (a)   Mixed use developments are strongly encouraged in the PDD
zoning districts, including the mixing of principal residential uses with
principal non-residential uses. Mixed use development may occur by having two
(2) or more principal uses located in the same building (e.g., retail on ground
floor, office space above) or by having two (2) or more principal uses located
in different buildings sited on the same lot or parcel (e.g., freestanding
child day care center located on the same parcel as an office building).
            (b)   Planned developments containing both residential and non-
residential uses shall be designed, located, and oriented on the site so that
non-residential uses are directly accessible to residents of the development.
For the purposes of this section, "directly accessible" shall mean pedestrian
and vehicular access by way of improved sidewalks or paths and streets that do
not involve leaving the planned development or using a major thoroughfare.
"Directly accessible" does not necessarily mean that non-residential uses need
to be located in a particular location, but that the siting of such uses
considers the accessibility of the residential component of the development to
the non-residential use.
         (3)   Applicable Standards
            (a)   Dimensional standards for development within a PDD zoning
shall be stated on the approved master land use plan and/or in the associated
document(s). Development in a PDD district shall be subject to all applicable
overlay district regulations in
Chapter 4, all applicable use regulations set forth in
Chapter 5, and all applicable general regulations set forth in Chapters
6,
7, and
8, unless otherwise waived or modified by the Town in the terms of the approved
master land use plan. In case of any conflict between a specific regulation set
forth in this Section
4.5.3 and any regulation set forth in Chapters
4,
5, and
7, the regulation in this section shall apply unless otherwise expressly
allowed.
            (b)   Notwithstanding paragraph (a) above, in no case shall the
decision-making body waive or modify the following standards for a proposed PDD
zoning district:
               1.   Zones 1, 2, and 3 of stream buffers;
               2.   Design guidelines;
               3.   [Reserved]
               4.   Ownership requirements for any open space, buffers, or
streetscapes unless otherwise permitted within this Ordinance;
               5.   Preservation of existing vegetation in streetscapes,
floodplains, and/or buffers;
               6.   Street connectivity requirements;
               7.   Sidewalk and greenway requirements;
               8.   Mixed Use Center requirements (if applicable);
               9.   Stormwater control requirements;
               10.   Nitrogen reduction requirements; and
               11.   Setback reduction below the minimum required by section
(c) below.
            (c)   There shall be no minimum dimensional standards for planned
developments, provided that dimensional standards are stated in the master land
use plan and/or the associated development plan, with the following exception:
               1.   A building setback of less than three (3) feet is permitted
only where firewalls are provided in accordance with all applicable building
code requirements.
               Where the master land use plan and other documents approved as
part of the PDD zoning are silent as to a term or requirements, the
requirements/standards of this Ordinance and the approved policies and
procedures of the Town that are applicable to that aspect of development shall
control.
         (4)   Transportation and Circulation System
            The planned development's master plan shall demonstrate a safe and
adequate on-site transportation system that addresses vehicular, bicycle,
transit and pedestrian circulation. The on-site transportation system shall be
integrated with the off-site transportation circulation system of the Town.
         (5)   Off-Street Parking and Loading
            The planned development's master plan shall comply with the off-
street parking and loading requirements of Section
7.8, except that variations from these standards may be permitted if a
comprehensive parking and loading plan for the development is submitted as part
of the master plan that is suitable for the development and consistent with the
intent and purpose of the off-street parking and loading standards of this
Ordinance.
         (6)   Landscaping
            (a)   Compliance with General Landscaping Requirements
               Landscaping shall comply with the standards of Section
7.2, except that variations from these standards may be permitted where it is
demonstrated that the proposed landscaping sufficiently buffers uses from each
other, ensures compatibility with land uses on surrounding properties, creates
attractive streetscapes and parking areas, and is consistent with the urban
design objectives and/or character of the area.
            (b)   Stream Buffers Not Variable
               Variations from the minimum state-mandated stream buffers
including any Neuse River Riparian Buffer shall not be allowed without
requisite approvals from the appropriate state agency.
         (7)   Recreational and Open Space Requirements
            (a)   Dedication of Recreation Land
               Each residential planned development (or residential portion of
a mixed use planned development) shall dedicate recreational open space
consistent with the requirements in
Chapter 8.
            (b)   Common Open Space
               Each residential planned development (or residential portion of
a mixed use planned development) shall provide common open space as a
percentage of the entire parcel according to the following table:
TABLE 4.2-4: COMMON OPEN SPACE PROVISION IN PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
Number of Acres in Percent of Parcel to be Used Average Gross Density
Development        as Open Space
TABLE 4.2-4: COMMON OPEN SPACE PROVISION IN PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS
Number of Acres in Percent of Parcel to be Used Average Gross Density
Development        as Open Space
10 to 49           5.0                          0 to 4 units per acre
10 to 49           5.0                          4.1 to 8 units per acre
51 to 75           7.5                          0 to 4 units per acre
51 to 75           7.5                          4.1 to 8 units per acre
76 and above       10.0                         0 to 4 units per acre
76 to 100          10.0                         4.1 to 8 units per acre
101 to 200         12.5                         4.1 to 8 units per acre
201 and above      15.0                         4.1 to 8 units per acre
 
            (c)   Open Space Utilization
               Each residential planned development (or residential portion of
a mixed use planned development) shall provide adequate private, common open
space facilities including both active and passive recreational uses.
            (d)   Timing of Completion of Open Space Requirements
               All open space and recreational amenities shall be completed and
conveyed before certificates of occupancy may be issued for more than fifty
(50) percent of the dwelling units in the planned development or, if the
approved master plan divides the development into phases, in that phase of the
development of which the amenity is a part.
            (e)   Contingency Plan for Reserve Land
               Planned developments with seven hundred (700) or more
residential units which are required to set aside reserve land for potential
purchase by the Town for use as recreation land shall be required to include
alternative contingency plans for the reserve land in the event it is not
acquired by the Town.
(Ord. No. 2009-LDO-06, 8-13-09; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2017-
LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-02, 12-14-17; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-
19; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2023-
LDO-03, 6-22-23; Ord. No. 2025-CODE-01, 4-10-25)
Chapter 5:   USE REGULATIONS
5.1   TABLES OF PERMITTED USES
   
5.1.1   Explanation of Table Abbreviations
   (A) Permitted Uses
   (B) Special Uses
   (C) Accessory Uses
   (D) Prohibited Uses
   (E) Use Class
   (F) Additional Regulations
   
5.1.2   Table of Permitted Uses - General Use Districts (Except TC & CT)
   
5.1.3   Table of Permitted Uses - TC District
   
5.1.4   Table of Permitted Uses - CT District, Walnut Street Corridor
5.2   USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS
   
5.2.1   Residential Uses
   (A) Boarding House
   (B) Bed and Breakfast
   (C) Dormitory
   (D) Group Home; Family Care Home
   (E) Life Care Community
   (F) Multi-Family Dwelling, and Multi-Family Dwelling, Mid-Rise
   (G) Nursing Home
   (H) Patio Dwelling
   (I) Residential Use in Non-Residential Building
   (J) Residential Use in Mixed-Use Building
   (K) Manufactured Home
   (L) Semi-Detached/Attached Dwelling and Townhouse
   (M) Detached Dwelling
   (N) Tandem Dwelling Unit
   (O) Manufactured Home Parks
   (P) Detached Multi-family Dwellings
   
5.2.2   Public/Institutional Uses
   (A) Athletic Field, Public
   (B) Day Care Centers
   (C) School
   (D) Neighborhood Recreation Center, Public
   (E) Religious and Other Assembly Uses
   (F) College
   (G) Town Owned and/or Operated Facilities and Services
   (H) Governmental Offices
   
5.2.3   Commercial Uses
   (A) Athletic Field, Private
   (B) [Reserved]
   (C) Agricultural Uses
   (D) Electronic Gaming Operation
   (E) Kennel
   (F) Commercial Indoor Recreational Facility
   (G) Nightclub/Bar
   (H) [Reserved]
   (I) Postal Center, Private
   (J) Parking Lot as a Principal Use
   (K) Restaurant; Retail Store
   (L) Radio or TV Broadcasting Studio
   (M) Adult Business
   (N) Vehicle Filling Station, Vehicle Repair, Vehicle Service, Car Washes,
and Towing and Vehicle Storage
   (O) Veterinary Hospital/Office
   (P) Private Transportation Service
   (Q) Motor Vehicle Sales/Rental
   (R) Wellness Center
   (S) Trade School
   
5.2.4   Industrial Uses
   (A) Outdoor Storage as a Principal Use
   (B) Recycling and Salvage Operation
   (C) Resource Extraction
   (D) Telecommunications Facilities
   (E) Research Laboratory
   (F) Warehousing and Distribution Establishment and Wholesale Establishment
   (G) Light Industrial
   (H) Small Wireless Facilities
   (I) Brewery, Distillery, or Winery
5.3   ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
   
5.3.1   Purpose
   
5.3.2   General Standards and Limitations
   (A) Compliance with Ordinance Requirements
   (B) Approval of Accessory Uses and Structures
   (C) Accessory Use Permit
   (D) Location of Accessory Buildings, Structures, or Vehicles
   (E) Size of Residential Accessory Buildings and Structures
   (F) Signs
   (G) Temporary Accessory Uses and Structures
   
5.3.3   Accessory Uses Prohibited
   (A) Prohibited in All Zoning Districts
   (B) Prohibited in Residential Zoning Districts
   
5.3.4   Accessory Uses and Structures Allowed
   (A) Accessory Dwelling Units
   (B) Utility Dwelling Units
   (C) Home Occupations
   (D) Outdoor Display and Sales
   (E) Outdoor Storage as an Accessory Use
   (F) Satellite Dish Antenna
   (G) Vehicular Gate
   (H) Recycling Drop-Off Stations
   (I) Swimming Pools, Hot Tubs and Spas
   (J) Animal Husbandry
   (K) Yard Parking on Single-Unit and Duplex Residential Lots
   (L) Day Care Homes, Large
   (M) Day Care Homes, Small
   (N) Caretaker’s Residence
   (O) Beekeeping
   (P) Food Trucks
   (Q) Cluster Box Unit - Mailbox
   (R) Electronic Gaming Machines
   (S) Photovoltaic Systems
5.4   TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
   
5.4.1   Purpose
   
5.4.2   Table of Allowed Temporary Uses and Structures
   
5.4.3   [Reserved]
   
5.4.4   Temporary Use Permits
   
5.4.5   General Requirements for All Temporary Uses and Structures
   
5.4.6   Specific Regulations for Certain Temporary Uses and Structures
   (A) Expansion or Replacement of Existing Facilities
   (B) Real Estate Sales Office and Model Sales Home
   (C) Sale/Display of Goods Other Than Agricultural Products
   (D) Sale of Agricultural Products Grown Off-Site
   (E) Sale of Fireworks
   (F) Temporary Structures In or Near the Flood Hazard Area
   
5.4.7   Events
   (A) Purpose and Intent
   (B) Types of Events
   (C) Permit Required
   (D) No Permit Required
   (E) Term of Approval/Permit
   (F) Additional Planning Requirements
   (G) Submittal Requirements
5.1   TABLES OF PERMITTED USES
   Table
5.1-1 below sets forth the uses allowed within all general use districts except
the Town Center district, Table
5.1-2 below sets forth the uses allowed within the Town Center district and
Table 5.1-3 sets forth the uses allowed within the Corridor Transition
district. Each of the uses listed in Tables
5.1-1,
5.1-2, and
5.1-3 are defined in the "Use Classifications" section of
Chapter 12. Allowable uses for the PDD districts are discussed in Section
4.5.3(D). Any use not listed in Tables
5.1-1,
5.1-2, or
5.1-3 as a permitted use and not otherwise prohibited or restricted by this
Ordinance is an "unlisted use" that shall only be permitted if approved by the
Planning Director pursuant to Section 12.3.1 of this Ordinance.
   5.1.1   Explanation of Table Abbreviations
      (A)   Permitted Uses
         A "P" in a cell indicates that a use category is allowed by right in
the respective zoning district. Permitted uses are subject to all other
applicable regulations of this Ordinance, including the General Development
Regulations set forth in
Chapter 7.
      (B)   Special Uses
         An "S" in a cell indicates that a use category is allowed only if
reviewed and approved as a special use, in accordance with the special use
review procedures of Section
3.8.
      (C)   Accessory Uses
         An "A" in a cell indicates that a use category is allowed by right as
an accessory, ancillary, or incidental use to a legally-established principal
use in the respective zoning district. Accessory uses are subject to all other
applicable regulations of this Ordinance.
      (D)   Prohibited Uses
         A blank cell indicates that the use type is prohibited in the zoning
district.
      (E)   Use Class
         Adjacent to the "Use Type" entries in Table
5.1-1 is a number or numbers which correspond to the use's "Use Class". This is
a figure utilized in Section
7.2 of this Ordinance to determine the required width and type of perimeter
landscaping buffer required between two (2) individual uses. The information is
provided in Table
5.1-1 for convenience, and more detail is available in Section
7.2.
      (F)   Additional Regulations
         Regardless of whether a use category is permitted by right, as a
special use, or as an accessory use, there may be additional regulations that
are applicable to a specific use. The existence of these use-specific
regulations is noted through a section reference in the last column of the use
summary table entitled "Additional Regulations." References refer to
subsections of Section
5.2, Use-Specific Regulations. These regulations apply to all districts unless
otherwise specified and may not be varied.
   5.1.2   Table of Permitted Uses - General Use Districts (Except TC & CT)
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_5.1-1
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC &
CT) AND MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance
Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed
herein as Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same
use-specific standards, provided that the use is represented on the approved
Preliminary Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2 Mixed Use
Overlay District (MUOD) - Neighborhood, as delineated on the Official Zoning
Overlay Map. 3 MUOD - Community, as delineated on the Official Zoning Overlay
Map. 4 MUOD - Regional, as delineated on the Official Zoning Overlay Map.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers,
and is repeated in Section
7.2
         Use                                              MIXED USE   Use-
Use      Type   RESIDENTIAL               NON-RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY     Specific
Category and                                              DISTRICT 1  Stds
         [Use   R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I  N 2 C 3 R 4
         Class]
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC &
CT) AND MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed herein
as Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same use-specific
standards, provided that the use is represented on the approved Preliminary
Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2 Mixed Use Overlay District
(MUOD) - Neighborhood, as delineated on the Official Zoning Overlay Map. 3 MUOD -
Community, as delineated on the Official Zoning Overlay Map. 4 MUOD - Regional,
as delineated on the Official Zoning Overlay Map.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and
is repeated in Section
7.2
                                                                MIXED
                                                 NON-           USE      Use-
Use       Use Type and RESIDENTIAL               RESIDENTIAL    OVERLAY  Specific
Category  [Use Class]                                           DISTRICT Stds
                                                                1
                       R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I N C  R 4
                                                                2 3
RESIDENTIAL USES
Group     Dormitory                                P  P  P     P P  P   5.2.1(C)
Living    [5]
Group     Life care
Living    community                      S  P      P     S     P P  P   5.2.1(E)
          [5]
Group     Nursing home                   S  S      P  S  S     P PS PS  5.2.1(G)
Living    [4]
Household Bed and      S   S                                             5.2.1(B)
Living    Breakfast
Household Boarding        S   S   S   S  S  P                  S S  S   5.2.1(A)
Living    house [4]
Household Detached
Living    dwelling [2/ P   P   P   P   P  P                     P P  P   5.2.1(M)
          3]
Household Duplex                         P  P                  P P  P
Living    dwelling [5]
Household Family care
Living    home [5]     PZ
                       Allowed in all residential dwellings as otherwise 5.2.1(D)
Household Group home   permitted by law, and may not be prohibited       (2)
Living    [5]          through zoning conditions

Household Manufactured P   P   S                                         5.2.1(K)
Living    home [4]
Household Manufactured
Living    home park     
          [4]
Household Mobile home                                                   5.2.1(O)
Living
Household Multi-family                      P                  P P  P   5.2.1(F)
Living    dwelling [4]
Household Patio                          P  P                  P P  P   5.2.1(H)
Living    dwelling [4]
          Residential
Household use in non-
Living    residential                           P     P     P P  P   5.2.1(I)
          building [4/
          5/6]
          Semi-
Household detached/                     P  P                  P P  P   5.2.1(L)
Living    attached
          dwelling [4]
Household Townhouse                      P  P                  P P  P   5.2.1(L)
Living    [4]
 
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC &
CT) AND MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed
herein as Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same
use-specific standards, provided that the use is represented on the approved
Preliminary Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2 Neighborhood
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 3 Community
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 4 Regional
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and
is repeated in Section
7.2
         Use                                              MIXED USE    Use-
Use      Type   RESIDENTIAL               NON-RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY      Specific
Category and                                              DISTRICT 1   Stds
         [Use   R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I  NC CC 3 RC 4
         Class]                                           2
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC & CT) AND
MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed herein as
Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same use-specific
standards, provided that the use is represented on the approved Preliminary
Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2 Neighborhood Activity Center, as
delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 3 Community Activity Center, as delineated
on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 4 Regional Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-
wide Land Use Plan.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and is
repeated in Section
7.2
                                                                     MIXED
                                                      NON-           USE      Use-
             Use Type and   RESIDENTIAL               RESIDENTIAL    OVERLAY  Specific
Use Category [Use Class]                                             DISTRICT Stds
                                                                     1
                            R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I NC CC RC
                                                                     2  3  4
PUBLIC/INSTITUTIONAL USES
             Airport/
Aviation     landing strip                                         S
             [7]
Aviation     Heliport [7]                                S         S
Cemetery     All [1]        S   S   S   S   S  S  S      S  S  S   S
Cultural     Library [4]        S   S   S   S  S  S      P  P  P     P  P  P
Facilities
Cultural     Museum [4]         S   S   S   S  S  S      P  P  P     P  P  P
Facilities
Day Care     Day care       S   S   S   S   S  S  S      P  P  P     P  P  P  5.2.2(B)
             center [4/5]
Government   Governmental   S   S   S   S   S  S  S   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P  5.2.2(H)
Services     office [4]
Government   Public safety  P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P
Services     station [4]
Government   Public utility P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P
Services     facility [7]
             Town owned/
Government   operated       P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P  5.2.2(G)
Services     facilities and
             services
Hospital     All [5]                                     P  P  P    P  P  P
Park and     Athletic
Open Space   field, public  P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P  5.2.2(A)
             [4]
Park and     Community      P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P
Open Space   garden [1]
Park and     Outdoor
Open Space   amphitheater,      S   S   S   S  S  S   S  S  S  S   S P  P  P
             public [5,6]
Park and     Park, public   P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P
Open Space   [1]
             Neighborhood
Park and     recreation     P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P  5.2.2(D)
Open Space   center, public
             [4]
Park and     Resource
Open Space   conservation   P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P     S     P  P  P
             facility [1]
Religious    All [4]        S/P S/P S/P S/P S/ S/ S/P    P  P  P   P P  P  P  5.2.2(E)
Assembly                                    P  P
Educational  Pre-school [4/ S   S   S   S   S  S  S      P  P  P     P  P  P
Use          5]
Educational  College [4]                                 S/ S/ P   P    P  P  5.2.2(F)
Use                                                      P  P
Educational  School [4]         S/P S/P S/P S/ S/ S/P    P  P  S     P  P  P  5.2.2(C)
Use                                         P  P
Non-         Utility
Governmental facility,      S   S   S   S   S  S  S   S  S  S  S   S
Utilities    major [7]
Non-         Transportation
Governmental facility [7]                      S  S      P  P  P   P P  P  P
Utilities
Non-         Utility
Governmental substation,    P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P P  P  P
Utilities    minor [5]
 
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC &
CT) AND MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed
herein as Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same
use-specific standards, provided that the use is represented on the approved
Preliminary Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2 Neighborhood
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 3 Community
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 4 Regional
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and
is repeated in Section
7.2
         Use                                              MIXED USE    Use-
Use      Type   RESIDENTIAL               NON-RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY      Specific
Category and                                              DISTRICT 1   Stds
         [Use   R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I  NC CC 3 RC 4
         Class]                                           2
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC & CT) AND
MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed herein as
Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same use-specific standards,
provided that the use is represented on the approved Preliminary Development Plan
component of the MXD district. 2 Neighborhood Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-
wide Land Use Plan. 3 Community Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use
Plan. 4 Regional Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and is
repeated in Section
7.2
                                                                        MIXED
                                                                        USE      Use-
               Use Type and   RESIDENTIAL               NON-RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY  Specific
Use Category   [Use Class]                                              DISTRICT Stds
                                                                        1
                              R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I  NC CC RC
                                                                        2  3  4
COMMERCIAL USES
Agricultural   Agri-Tourism   P   P                                              5.2.3(C)
Agricultural   Farming,       P   P   P                              P           5.2.3(C)
               general [1]
Agricultural   Forestry [1]   P   P   P                                          5.2.3(C)
Agricultural   Produce stand  P   P                                              5.2.3(C)
               [1]
Animal Service Kennel, indoor S   S                        P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(E)
               only [4]
               Kennel,
Animal Service indoor/outdoor S   S                        S  S  P   P           5.2.3(E)
               [6]
               Veterinary
               hospital/
Animal Service office, with                                P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(O)
               indoor kennel
               [4]
               Veterinary
               hospital/
Animal Service office, with                                   S  S   P           5.2.3(O)
               outdoor kennel
               [6]
Assembly       Club, lodge,                                P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.2(E)
               or hall [4]
Assembly       Special Event                               P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.2(E)
               Center [4]
Financial      Bank, with
Institution    drive- through                              P  P  P   P  P  P  P
               service [5]
Financial      Bank, without
Institution    drive- through                              P  P  P   P  P  P  P
               service [5]
Food and       Nightclub/bar,
Beverage       indoor                                      S  P         P  P  P  5.2.3(G)
Service        operation [6]
Food and       Nightclub/bar,
Beverage       with outdoor                                   S         P  P  P  5.2.3(G)
Service        operation [6]
Food and       Restaurant,
Beverage       indoor                                      P  P         P  P  P  5.2.3(K)
Service        operation [6]
Food and       Restaurant,
Beverage       with outdoor                                   S         P  P  P  5.2.3(K)
Service        operation [6]
               Office,
Office         business or                                 P  P  P   P  P  P  P
               professional
               [4/5/6]
               Radio or TV
Office         broadcasting                                P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(L)
               studio [4/5/6]
Office         Wellness       -   -   -   -   -  -  -      P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(R)
               Center [6]
Public         Hotel or motel                              S  P  P      P  P  P
Accommodation  [5/6/7]
Recreation/    Amusement
Entertainment, establishment                                  P  S      P  P  P
Indoor         [5]
Recreation/    Commercial
Entertainment, indoor                                      P  P  P   S  P  P  P  5.2.3(F)
Indoor         recreational
               facility [5]
Recreation/    Electronic
Entertainment, Gaming                                         PZ PZ  PZ          5.2.3(D)
Indoor         Operation [6]
               Neighborhood
Recreation/    recreation
Entertainment, center,        P   P   P   P   P  P  P                   P  P  P  5.2.3(F)
Indoor         indoor/
               outdoor,
               private [4]
Recreation/    Pool or
Entertainment, billiard hall                                  P         P  P  P
Indoor         [5]
Recreation/    Theater, large
Entertainment, [5]                                                      S  P  P
Indoor
Recreation/    Theater, small
Entertainment, [5]                                            P         P  P  P
Indoor
Recreation and Athletic
Entertainment, field, private P   P   P   S   S  S      P        S   S        S  5.2.3(A)
Outdoor        [4]
Recreation and Commercial
Entertainment, outdoor                                        S      S  S  S  S
Outdoor        recreational
               facility [6]
Recreation and Golf course,
Entertainment, privately-     S   S   S   S   S  S      P
Outdoor        owned [4]
Recreation and Golf driving
Entertainment, range [4]                                   S  S  S   S        P
Outdoor
Recreation and Motor vehicle
Entertainment, raceway [7]                                           S
Outdoor
Recreation and Outdoor
Entertainment, amphitheater,                                     S   S     S  S
Outdoor        commercial [6]
Retail Sales   ABC store [6]                                  P         P  P  P
and Service
Retail Sales   Convenience                                    P         P  P  P
and Service    store [6]
Retail Sales   Farm market                                 S  P  P      P  P  P
and Service    [5]
Retail Sales   Crematorium                                 P  P      P  P  P  P
and Service    [6]
Retail Sales   Funeral home                                P  P         P  P  P
and Service    [6]
Retail Sales   Shopping
and Service    Center,                                        P         P  P  P
               General [6]
Retail Sales   Shopping
and Service    Center, Small                                  P         P  P  P
               [6]
Retail Sales   Moped sales/                                   S  P   P  S  S  S  5.2.3(Q)
and Service    rental [6]
Retail Sales   Postal center,                              S  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(I)
and Service    private [6]
               Personal
Retail Sales   service                                     P  P  P   P  P  P  P
and Service    establishment
               [6]
Retail Sales   Retail store                                P  P         P  P  P  5.2.3(K)
and Service    [6]
Retail Sales   Adult business                                    S/P    S  S  S  5.2.3(M)
and Service    [6]
Retail Sales   Trade school                                S/ S/ P   P  S  S  S  5.2.3(S)
and Service    [6]                                         P  P
Parking        Parking lot                                 P  S  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(J)
               [4/6]
Parking        Parking                                     P     P      P  P  P
               structure [6]
Vehicles and   Motor vehicle                                  S/        S/ S/ S/
Equipment      sales/rental                                   P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(Q)
               [6]
Vehicles and   Car wash [6]                                   P      P  P  P  P
Equipment
               Heavy
Vehicles and   equipment                                             P
Equipment      sales/rental
               [6]
Vehicles and   Private
Equipment      Transportation                              P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(P)
               Service [6]
Vehicles and   Towing and
Equipment      vehicle                                           S   P
               storage [6]
Vehicles and   Vehicle
Equipment      filling                                        P      P  P  P  P  5.2.3(N)
               station [6]
Vehicles and   Vehicle
Equipment      repair, heavy                                     S   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(N)
               [6]
Vehicles and   Vehicle
Equipment      service, light                                 P  S   P  P  P  P  5.2.3(N)
               [6]
 
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC &
CT) AND MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed
herein as Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same
use-specific standards, provided that the use is represented on the approved
Preliminary Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2 Neighborhood
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 3 Community
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 4 Regional
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and
is repeated in Section
7.2
         Use                                              MIXED USE    Use-
Use      Type   RESIDENTIAL               NON-RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY      Specific
Category and                                              DISTRICT 1   Stds
         [Use   R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I  NC CC 3 RC 4
         Class]                                           2
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC & CT) AND MIXED USE
OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed herein as Special Use
shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same use-specific standards, provided that the
use is represented on the approved Preliminary Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2
Neighborhood Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 3 Community Activity
Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 4 Regional Activity Center, as delineated
on the Town-wide Land Use Plan.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and is repeated in
Section
7.2
                                                                                MIXED
                                                                                USE      Use-
                   Use Type and [Use  RESIDENTIAL               NON-RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY  Specific
Use Category       Class]                                                       DISTRICT Stds
                                                                                1
                                      R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I  NC CC RC
                                                                                2  3  4
INDUSTRIAL USES
Industrial Service General industrial                                        P     S  S
                   service [7]
Industrial Service Research                                              P   P  P  P  P
                   laboratory [7]
Manufacturing and  Manufacturing,                                            S
Production         heavy [7]
Manufacturing and  Manufacturing,                                        P   P  S  S  P
Production         light [7]
Manufacturing and  Brewery [6]                                        P  P   S/ P  P  P  5.2.4(I)
Production                                                                   P
Manufacturing and  Distillery [6]                                     P  P   S/ P  P  P  5.2.4(I)
Production                                                                   P
Manufacturing and  Winery [6]                                         P  P   S/ P  P  P  5.2.4(I)
Production                                                                   P
Manufacturing and  Prototype process
Production         and production                                        P   P  S  S  P
                   plant [7]
Manufacturing and  Resource                                                  S           5.2.4(C)
Production         extraction [7]
                   Concealed
                   (stealth)
                   telecommunica
Telecommunications tions facility     S/P S/P S/P S/P S/ S/ S/P P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.4(D)
Facilities         (antennae and                      P  P
                   wireless support
                   structures) [4/5/
                   6/7]
                   Non-stealth
                   telecommunications
Telecommunications facility on        P   P                     P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.4(D)
Facilities         existing building
                   or structure [4/5/
                   6/7]
                   Other freestanding
Telecommunications non-stealth                                  S/ S/ S/     S/ S/ S/ S/
Facilities         wireless support   S   S                     P  P  P  S/P P  P  P  P  5.2.4(D)
                   structures [4/5/6/
                   7]
                   Collocation on
Telecommunications small wireless     P   P   P   P   P  P  P   P  P  P  P   P  P  P  P  5.2.4(H)
Facilities         facilities [4/5/6/
                   7]
                   City utility poles
                   and utility poles
Telecommunications associated with                                                       5.2.4(H)
Facilities         small wireless
                   facilities [4/5/6/
                   7]
Warehouse and      Mini-storage [6]                                      S   P
Freight Movement
Warehouse and      Outdoor storage                                    P      P           5.2.4(A)
Freight Movement   [7]
Warehouse and      Railroad stations                                         S
Freight Movement   and yards [7]
Warehouse and      Warehousing and
Freight Movement   distribution                                       S  P   P
                   establishment [6]
Warehouse and      Wholesale                                          S  P   P     S  P
Freight Movement   establishment [6]
                   Recycling and
Waste-Related Uses salvage operation                                         S           5.2.4(B)
                   [7]
 
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC &
CT) AND MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed
herein as Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same
use-specific standards, provided that the use is represented on the approved
Preliminary Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2 Neighborhood
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 3 Community
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 4 Regional
Activity Center, as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and
is repeated in Section
7.2
         Use                                              MIXED USE    Use-
Use      Type   RESIDENTIAL               NON-RESIDENTIAL OVERLAY      Specific
Category and                                              DISTRICT 1   Stds
         [Use   R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I  NC CC 3 RC 4
         Class]                                           2
TABLE 5.1-1: TABLE OF PERMITTED USES - GENERAL USE DISTRICTS (EXCEPT PDD, TC &
CT) AND MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICT
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
1 Where the base zoning district is Mixed Use District (MXD), a use listed herein
as Special Use shall instead be a Permitted Use, subject to the same use-specific
standards, provided that the use is represented on the approved Preliminary
Development Plan component of the MXD district. 2 Neighborhood Activity Center,
as delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 3 Community Activity Center, as
delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan. 4 Regional Activity Center, as
delineated on the Town-wide Land Use Plan.
Use Class is listed for determining the type of required perimeter buffers, and
is repeated in Section
7.2
                                                                MIXED
                                                 NON-           USE      Use-
Use       Use Type and RESIDENTIAL               RESIDENTIAL    OVERLAY  Specific
Category  [Use Class]                                           DISTRICT Stds
                                                                1
                       R80 R40 R20 R12 R8 TR RMF RR OI GC ORD I NC CC RC
                                                                2  3  4
ACCESSORY USES
Accessory Accessory
Uses      dwelling     A   A   A                                A  A  A  5.3.4(A)
          unit
Accessory Beekeeping   A   A   A   A   A  A  A   A  A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(O)
Uses
Accessory Day care     S   S   S   S   S  S  S                  S  S  S  5.2.2(L)
Uses      home, large
Accessory Day care     A   A   A   A   A  A  A                  A  A  A  5.3.4(M)
Uses      home, small
Accessory Home         A   A   A   A   A  A  A      A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(C)
Uses      occupation
Accessory Kennel       A   A                        A  A  A   A          5.2.3(E)
Uses
Accessory Outdoor
Uses      display/                                  A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(D)
          sales
Accessory Outdoor                                A  A  A  A   A          5.3.4(E)
Uses      storage
Accessory Photovoltaic A   A   A   A   A  A  A   A  A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(S)
Uses      System
Accessory Satellite    A   A   A   A   A  A  A   A  A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(F)
Uses      dish antenna
Accessory Swimming
Uses      pool, hot    A   A   A   A   A  A  A   A  A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(I)
          tub, or spa
Accessory Recycling
Uses      drop-off                           A      A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(H)
          station
Accessory Vehicular                              A  A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(G)
Uses      gate
Accessory Animal       A   A   A   A   A  A                     A  A  A  5.3.4(J)
Uses      husbandry
Accessory Caretaker's
Uses      residence                                       A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(N)
          [4]
Accessory Food truck   A   A   A   A   A  A  A   A  A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(P)
Uses
Accessory Cluster box
Uses      unit -       A   A   A   A   A  A  A   A  A  A  A   A A  A  A  5.3.4(Q)
          Mailbox
Accessory Electronic
Uses      Gaming                                       AZ                5.3.4(R)
          Machine [6]
 
   5.1.3   Table of Permitted Uses - TC District
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_5.1-2
TABLE 5.1-2: TABLE OF TOWN CENTER (TC) DISTRICT USES
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
Use      Use           HDR       HDR            LDR PKS/              OFC/     OFC/ Use
Category Type HMXD MXD Mid- MXDR Garden MDR LDR -12 OS   CB&R COM CLI INS  INS IND  Specific
                       Rise                                                         Stds
TABLE 5.1-2: TABLE OF TOWN CENTER (TC) DISTRICT USES
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
Use                             HDR       HDR            LDR PKS/              OFC/     OFC/ Use
Category  Use Type     HMXD MXD Mid- MXDR Garden MDR LDR -12 OS   CB&R COM CLI INS  INS IND  Specific
                                Rise                                                         Stds
RESIDENTIAL USES
Group     Dormitory    P    P   P    P    P                            P       P    P   P    5.2.1(C)
Living
Group     Life care    P    P   P    P    P                                                  5.2.1(E)
Living    community
Group     Nursing home S    P   P    S                                 S       P    P        5.2.1(G)
Living
Household Bed and      P    P                                     P    P                     5.2.1(B)
Living    Breakfast
Household Boarding     S    S   S    S    S                       S        S   S    S   S    5.2.1(A)
Living    house
Household Detached     S             P           P   P   P        P                          5.2.1(M)
Living    dwelling
Household Detached
Living    multi-family S                                                                     5.2.1(P)
          dwelling
Household Duplex                    P           P
Living    dwelling
Household Family care  PZ                                                                    5.2.1(D)
Living    home [5]     Allowed in all residential dwellings as otherwise permitted by law,   (2)
Household Group home   and may not be prohibited through zoning conditions
Living    [5]
Household Manufactured  
Living    home
Household Manufactured  
Living    home park
Household Mobile home   
Living
Household Multi-family P    P   P    P    P      P                P                          5.2.1(F)
Living    dwelling
Household Multi-family
Living    dwelling,    P    P   P    P    P      P                                           5.2.1(F)
          mid- rise
Household Patio                P    P    P      P   P   P                                   5.2.1(H)
Living    dwelling
          Residential
Household use in non-  P    P                                     P                          5.2.1(I)
Living    residential
          building
Household Residential
Living    use in mixed P    P                                     P                          5.2.1(J)
          use building
          Semi-
Household detached/    P    P   P    P    P      P
Living    attached
          dwelling
Household Townhouse    P    P   P    P    P      P                                           5.2.1(L)
Living
 
TABLE 5.1-2: TABLE OF TOWN CENTER (TC) DISTRICT USES
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
Use      Use           HDR       HDR            LDR PKS/              OFC/     OFC/ Use
Category Type HMXD MXD Mid- MXDR Garden MDR LDR -12 OS   CB&R COM CLI INS  INS IND  Specific
                       Rise                                                         Stds
TABLE 5.1-2: TABLE OF TOWN CENTER (TC) DISTRICT USES
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
                                     HDR       HDR            LDR PKS/              OFC/     OFC/ Use
Use Category Use Type       HMXD MXD Mid- MXDR Garden MDR LDR -12 OS   CB&R COM CLI INS  INS IND  Specific
                                     Rise                                                         Stds
PUBLIC/INSTITUTIONAL USES
Aviation     Heliport       S    S                                                           S
Cemetery     All                                                                    P    P
Day Care     Day care       S    S   S    S    S      S   S   S             P   P   P        P    5.2.2(B)
             center
Government   Governmental   P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P    5.2.2(H)
Services     office
Government   Public safety  P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P
Services     station
Government   Public utility P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P
Services     facility
             Town owned/
Government   operated       P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P    5.2.2(G)
Services     facilities and
             services
Cultural     Library        P    P   S    S    S      S   S   S             P       P    P   P
Facilities
Cultural     Museum         P    P   S    S    S      S                     P       P    P   P
Facilities
Park and     Athletic                S    S                       P                 S    S   S    5.2.2(A)
Open Space   field, public
Park and     Community      P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P
Open Space   garden
Park and     Outdoor
Open Space   amphitheater,  S    S                                P         S       S    S   S
             public
Park and     Park, public   P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P         P       P    P   P
Open Space
Park and     Neighborhood
Open Space   recreation     P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P                 P    P   P    5.2.2(D)
             center, public
Park and     Resource
Open Space   conservation   P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P
             facility
Public
Safety       All            P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P
Station
Religious    All            S    S   S    S    S      S   S   S        S    P       P    P   S    5.2.2(E)
Assembly
Educational  Pre-school     S    S   S    S    S      S   S   S        S    S   S   P    P   S
Use
Educational  College        P    P   S    S                                 P       P    P   P
Use
Educational  School         P    P   S/P  S/P  S/P    S/P S/P S/P           P       P    P   S    5.2.2(C)
Use
Non-         Utility
Governmental facility,      S    S   S    S    S      S   S   S   S    S    S   S   S    S   S
Utilities    major
Non-         Transportation
Governmental facility       P    P   S    S    S                            P       P        P
Utilities
Non-         Utility
Governmental substation,    P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P
Utilities    minor
 
TABLE 5.1-2: TABLE OF TOWN CENTER (TC) DISTRICT USES
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
Use      Use           HDR       HDR            LDR PKS/              OFC/     OFC/ Use
Category Type HMXD MXD Mid- MXDR Garden MDR LDR -12 OS   CB&R COM CLI INS  INS IND  Specific
                       Rise                                                         Stds
TABLE 5.1-2: TABLE OF TOWN CENTER (TC) DISTRICT USES
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
                                               HDR       HDR            LDR PKS/              OFC/     OFC/ Use
Use Category       Use Type           HMXD MXD Mid- MXDR Garden MDR LDR -12 OS   CB&R COM CLI INS  INS IND  Specific
                                               Rise                                                         Stds
COMMERCIAL USES
Animal Services    Kennel, indoor          P                                          P   P   P        P    5.2.3(E)
                   only
Animal Services    Kennel, indoor/         S                                          S   S   S        S    5.2.3(E)
                   outdoor
                   Veterinary
Animal Services    hospital/office,        P                                          P   P   P        P    5.2.3(O)
                   with indoor kennel
                   Veterinary
Animal Services    hospital/office,        S                                          S   S   S        S    5.2.3(O)
                   with outdoor
                   kennel
Assembly           Club, lodge, or    P    P                                          P   S   P    P   P    5.2.2(E)
                   hall
Assembly           Special Event      P    P                                          P       P             5.2.2(E)
                   Center
Financial          Bank, with drive-  S    P                                          P   P   P        P
Institution        through service
Financial          Bank, without
Institution        drive- through     P    P                                          P   P   P        P
                   service
Food and Beverage  Nightclub/bar,     P    P                                          P   P   P        P    5.2.3(G)
Service            indoor operation
Food and Beverage  Nightclub/bar,
Service            with outdoor       P    P                                          P   P   P        P    5.2.3(G)
                   operation
Food and Beverage  Restaurant, indoor P    P                                          P   P   P        P    5.2.3(K)
Service            operation
Food and Beverage  Restaurant, with   P    P                                          P   P   P        P    5.2.3(K)
Service            outdoor operation
Office             Office, business   P    P                                     P    P   P   P        P
                   or professional
                   Radio or TV
Office             broadcasting       S    S                                     S    P       P        P
                   studio
Office             Wellness Center                                                    P       P    P   P    5.2.3(R)
Public             Hotel or motel     P    P                                          P       S        P
Accommodation
Recreation and     Amusement
Entertainment,     establishment      S    P                                          P   P            S
Indoor
Recreation and     Commercial indoor
Entertainment,     recreational       P    P                                          P   P   P    P   P    5.2.3(F)
Indoor             facility
Recreation and     Electronic Gaming
Entertainment,     Operation                                                          PZ                    5.2.3(D)
Indoor
Recreation and     Neighborhood
Entertainment,     recreation center, S    S   S    S    S      S   S   S        S                          5.2.3(F)
Indoor             indoor/outdoor,
                   private
Recreation and     Pool or billiard
Entertainment,     hall               S    P                                          P   S            S
Indoor
Recreation and
Entertainment,     Theater, large     P    P                                          P       P
Indoor
Recreation and
Entertainment,     Theater, small     P    P                                          P       P    P
Indoor
Recreation and     Athletic field,
Entertainment,     private                                                  P                          S
Outdoor
Recreation and     Commercial outdoor
Entertainment,     recreational                                                       S
Outdoor            facility
Recreation and     Outdoor
Entertainment,     amphitheater,                                                                       S
Outdoor            commercial
Retail Sales and   ABC store          P    P                                          P
Service
Retail Sales and   Convenience store  P    P                                          P   P                 5.2.3(B)
Service
Retail Sales and   Farm market        P    P                                          P       S        P
Service
Retail Sales and   Crematorium
Service
Retail Sales and   Funeral home            S                                          P   S   P
Service
Retail Sales and   Moped sales/rental P/S  P/S                                        P   S            P    5.2.3(Q)
Service
Retail Sales and   Postal center,                                                             P        S    5.2.3(I)
Service            private
Retail Sales and   Personal service   P    P                                     P    P   P   P        P    5.2.3(K)
Service            establishment
Retail Sales and   Retail store       P    P                                     P    P   P   P             5.2.3(K)
Service
Retail Sales and   Shopping Center,                                                   P
Service            General
Retail Sales and   Shopping Center,                                                   P
Service            Small
Retail Sales and   Trade school                                                       S       S        P    5.2.3(S)
Service
Parking            Parking lot        S    S                                          S       P        P    5.2.3(J)
Parking            Parking structure  P    P                                                  P        P
Vehicles and       Motor vehicle      P/S  P/S                                        P   S            P    5.2.3(Q)
Equipment          sales/rental
Vehicles and       Car wash           P/S  P/S                                        P                     5.2.3(N)
Equipment
Vehicles and       Towing and vehicle P/S  P/S                                                S        P    5.2.3(N)
Equipment          storage
Vehicles and       Heavy equipment                                                                     S
Equipment          sales/rental
Vehicles and       Vehicle filling    P/S  P/S                                        P   S            S    5.2.3(N)
Equipment          station
Vehicles and       Vehicle service/   P/S  P/S                                        P   S   P        P    5.2.3(N)
Equipment          repair
Industrial Service Research                         P                                                  P    5.2.4(E)
                   laboratory
Manufacturing and  Manufacturing,
Production         heavy
Manufacturing and  Manufacturing,     P    S/P                                        P                P    5.2.4(G)
Production         light
Manufacturing and  Brewery            P    P                                          P   P            P    5.2.4(I)
Production
Manufacturing and  Distillery         P    P                                          P   P            P    5.2.4(I)
Production
Manufacturing and  Winery             P    P                                          P   P            P    5.2.4(I)
Production
Manufacturing and  Prototype process
Production         and production          S                                                           P
                   plant
                   Concealed
                   (stealth)
Telecommunications telecommunications
Facilities         facilities         S    S   S    S    S      S   S   S   S    S    P   P   P    P   P    5.2.4(D)
                   (antennae and
                   wireless support
                   structures)
                   Non-stealth
Telecommunications telecommunications
Facilities         facility on        S    S   S    S    S      S   S   S   S    S    P   P   P    P   P    5.2.4(D)
                   existing building
                   or structure
Telecommunications Other freestanding
Facilities         non-stealth        S    S                                                  S    S   S    5.2.4(D)
                   support structures
Telecommunications Collocation of
Facilities         small wireless     P    P   P    P    P      P   P   P   P    P    P   P   P    P   P    5.2.4(H)
                   facilities
                   City utility poles
Telecommunications and utility poles
Facilities         associated with                                                                          5.2.4(H)
                   small wireless
                   facilities
Warehouse and      Mini-storage                                                                        S
Freight Movement
Warehouse and      Outdoor storage    P/S  P/S                                        P                     5.2.4(A)
Freight Movement
Warehouse and      Railroad stations                                                          P
Freight Movement   and yards
Warehouse and      Warehousing and
Freight Movement   distribution       P/S  P/S                                                         P    5.2.4(F)
                   establishment
Warehouse and      Wholesale          P/S  P/S                                                         S    5.2.4(F)
Freight Movement   establishment
Waste-Related Uses Recycling and                                                                       S    5.2.4(B)
                   salvage operation
 
TABLE 5.1-2: TABLE OF TOWN CENTER (TC) DISTRICT USES
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
Use      Use           HDR       HDR            LDR PKS/              OFC/     OFC/ Use
Category Type HMXD MXD Mid- MXDR Garden MDR LDR -12 OS   CB&R COM CLI INS  INS IND  Specific
                       Rise                                                         Stds
TABLE 5.1-2: TABLE OF TOWN CENTER (TC) DISTRICT USES
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use; PZ = Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit;
AZ = Accessory Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit
Use                             HDR       HDR            LDR PKS/              OFC/     OFC/ Use
Category  Use Type     HMXD MXD Mid- MXDR Garden MDR LDR -12 OS   CB&R COM CLI INS  INS IND  Specific
                                Rise                                                         Stds
ACCESSORY USES
Accessory Accessory
Uses      dwelling                               A   A   A        A                          5.3.4(A)
          unit
Accessory Beekeeping   A    A   A    A    A      A   A   A   A    A    A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(O)
Uses
Accessory Day care     A    A                            A             A   A   A    A        5.3.4(M)
Uses      home, small
Accessory Day care     S    S                            S                          A   A    5.3.4(L)
Uses      home, large
Accessory Home         A    A   A    A    A      A   A   A        A    A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(C)
Uses      occupation
Accessory Kennel                                                                             5.2.3(E)
Uses
Accessory Outdoor
Uses      display/     A    A                                     A    A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(D)
          sales
Accessory Outdoor                                                 A    A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(E)
Uses      storage
Accessory Photovoltaic A    A   A    A    A      A   A   A   A    A    A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(S)
Uses      System
Accessory Satellite    A    A   A    A    A      A   A   A        A    A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(F)
Uses      dish antenna
Accessory Swimming
Uses      pool, hot    A    A   A    A    A      A   A   A        A                          5.3.4(I)
          tub, or spa
Accessory Recycling
Uses      drop-off     A    A   A    A    A                            A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(H)
          station
Accessory Vehicular    A    A                                          A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(G)
Uses      gate
Accessory Caretaker's
Uses      residence    A    A   A                                                            5.3.4(N)
          [4]
Accessory Animal                                 A   A   A                                   5.3.4(J)
Uses      husbandry
Accessory Food truck   A    A   A    A    A      A   A   A        A    A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(P)
Uses
Accessory Cluster box
Uses      unit -       A    A   A    A    A      A   A   A        A    A   A   A    A   A    5.3.4(Q)
          Mailbox
Accessory Electronic
Uses      Gaming                                                       AZ                    5.3.4(R)
          Machine
 
   5.1.4   Table of Permitted Uses - CT District, Walnut Street Corridor
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_5.1-3
TABLE 5.1-3: TABLE OF CORRIDOR TRANSITION (CT) DISTRICT USES
Walnut Street Corridor
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use
PZ=Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit (Uses not listed are prohibited)
                                                                               Town
                          Family           Multi-   Live/ Day   Day   Public   owned/                      Club,                          Personal
Corridor Nursing Detached Care & Townhouse family   work  care  care  utility  operated   Park,  Religious lodge Office Bed and   Funeral service       Retail Restaurant
Sub-Area home    dwelling Group            dwelling unit  home, home, facility facilities public assembly  or           Breakfast home    establishment store
                          Home 1                          large small          and                         hall
                                                                               services
TABLE 5.1-3: TABLE OF CORRIDOR TRANSITION (CT) DISTRICT USES
Walnut Street Corridor
P = Permitted Use; S = Special Use (see Section
3.8); A = Accessory Use
PZ=Permitted Use Requiring Zoning Compliance Permit (Uses not listed are prohibited)
                                                                                    Town
                               Family           Multi-   Live/ Day   Day   Public   owned/                      Club,                          Personal
Corridor Sub- Nursing Detached Care & Townhouse family   work  care  care  utility  operated   Park,  Religious lodge Office Bed and   Funeral service       Retail Restaurant
Area          home    dwelling Group            dwelling unit  home, home, facility facilities public assembly  or           Breakfast home    establishment store
                               Home 1                          large small          and                         hall
                                                                                    services
Conversion           P        PZ                        S/P   S     P              P          P                      S/P    S/P               S/P
Area
Redevelopment
Area (on
parcels with         P        PZ                        P     P     P              P          P                      P      P                 P
less than 1
acre)
Redevelopment
Area (on
parcels with  P       P        PZ               P        P     P     P     P        P          P      P         P     P      P         P       P             P      P
1 or more
acres)
Infill Area
(1st 300 feet P       P        PZ     P         P        P     P     P     P        P          P      P         P     P      P         P       P             P      P
from Walnut
Street)
Infill Area
(301 or more
feet from            P        PZ     P                                             P          P      P
Walnut
Street)
Use Specific  5.2.1            5.2.1                           5.3.4 5.3.4                     5.2.2            5.2.2        5.2.1(B)                        5.2.3
Standards     (G)     5.2.1(M) (D)    5.2.1(L)  5.2.1(F)       (L)   (M)            5.2.2(G)   (A) &  5.2.2(E)  (E)          )                 5.2.3(K)      (K)    5.2.3(K)
                                                                                               (D)
1 Family care Homes and Group Homes are allowed in all residential dwellings as otherwise permitted by law, and may not be prohibited through zoning conditions.
 
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 06-005, adopted 3-
23-06; eff. 3-23-06; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord.
No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-02,
1-28-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-03, 2-25-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord.
No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-05, 12-15-11; Ord. No. 12-LDO-01,
2-23-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-03, 5-10-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No.
2012-LDO-07, 8-23-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-
13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No.
2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006,
12-10-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord.
No. 2017-LDO-02, 3-30-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-02,
12-14-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No.
2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-01, 1-13-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-
22-23; Ord. No. 2025-CODE-01, 4-10-25; Ord. No. 2025-CODE-02, 5-22-25)
5.2   USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS
   5.2.1   Residential Uses
      (A)   Boarding House
         (1)   A minimum of four (4) off-street parking spaces shall be
provided for the principal dwelling. The Planning Department may approve an
exception to this requirement if the property owner provides written
verification that the occupants of the sleeping room(s), due to age or
disability, will not have vehicles on-site.
         (2)   No more than two (2) vehicles owned by the boarder(s) of each
room shall be permitted, and all vehicles on-site shall be parked off-street.
         (3)   All parking provided for a boarding house shall meet the
requirements of this Ordinance unless otherwise permitted.
         (4)   Each rental room shall house no more than two (2) persons.
      (B)   Bed and Breakfast
         (1)   The operator of the bed and breakfast must reside on the
premises on a full-time basis;
         (2)   The property owner shall maintain a current guest register;
         (3)   The structure(s) shall be located on a lot which complies with
the required minimum lot area and dimensional standards for existing uses in
its respective zoning district;
         (4)   The structure(s) shall not be altered in a way that changes its
general residential appearance;
         (5)   No meals other than breakfast may be served to registered
guests;
         (6)   No meals shall be served to the general public;
         (7)   No cooking or kitchen facilities, apart from microwaves or mini-
refrigerators, shall be allowed in the guest rooms;
         (8)   A maximum of eight (8) bedrooms may be rented to registered
guests;
         (9)   A particular guest stay shall not exceed fourteen (14)
consecutive days;
         (10)   One (1) off-street parking space shall be required for each
guest bedroom in addition to parking required for the residential dwelling;
         (11)   In the R-40 and R-80 zoning districts, guest parking located
less than fifty (50) feet from side and rear property lines shall be screened
with landscaping meeting the performance standard of a Type A opaque buffer.
Guest parking shall not be located within twenty (20) feet of a side or rear
property line or within the applicable front setback. This section
5.2.1(B)(10) shall not apply to Bed and Breakfast use in the Town Center; and
         (12)   The resident owner shall comply with all laws and regulations
of the Town of Cary, the applicable county, and the State of North Carolina.
      (C)   Dormitory
         (1)   The dormitory shall be accessory to a training facility located
on the same property; and
         (2)   The dormitory shall house only persons who are students at or
employees of the facility.
      (D)   Group Home; Family Care Home
         (1)   Group Home
            (a)   Group homes shall be limited to a maximum of ten (10)
residents.
            (b)   Group homes with four (4) or more residents shall be spaced
at least one-quarter mile (1,320 feet) from any other group or family care home
with four (4) or more residents.
            (c)   Parking shall be as required for group homes by
Table 7.8-1 of this Ordinance.
            (d)   Where four (4) or more parking spaces are required, parking
areas shall be clearly delineated, and shall be screened to a minimum height of
three (3) feet from the view of adjacent residential properties. Such screening
may be provided by evergreen plantings that will attain a minimum height of
three (3) feet within three (3) years of planting, or by the use of a fence
made of wood (or a comparable composite material) that is at least three (3)
feet in height and is designed to screen at least three-quarters (3/4) of the
view through the fence from adjacent properties. Screening shall not be
required for parking areas located in the portion of a one (1)- or two (2)-car
wide driveway between the street and the front of the residence or located
adjacent to non-residential property except where such areas are being expanded
to meet parking requirements.
            (e)   Group homes must comply with any applicable federal, state
and local licensing requirements and health regulations.
            (f)   The property owner may request a reasonable accommodation to
the requirements of Section
5.2.1(D)(1)(a) through (d), or any other standards of this ordinance as needed
to ensure compliance with the Federal Fair Housing Act.
         (2)   Family Care Home
            (a)   Family care homes shall be limited to a maximum of six (6)
residents.
            (b)   Family care homes with four (4) or more residents shall be
spaced one-quarter mile (1,320 feet) from any other family care or group home
with four (4) or more residents.
            (c)   Family Care homes must comply with all applicable federal,
state and local licensing requirements and health regulations.
            (d)   The property owner may request a reasonable accommodation to
the requirements of Section
5.2.1(D)(2)(a) and (b), or any other standards of this ordinance as needed to
ensure compliance with the Federal Fair Housing Act.
      (E)   Life Care Community
         (1)   The life care community shall be for the sole residency of
persons sixty-two (62) years old or older, and shall not exceed the density set
forth in the following table, not including the number of persons occupying
hospital or clinic beds:
 
TABLE 5.2-1: DENSITY FOR LIFE CARE COMMUNITIES
District             Density (units/acre)
TR                   7
RMF                  8
OI ORD               12*
TC Mixed Use Overlay no density limit
* For the purpose of calculating residential density in the OI and ORD
districts, dwelling units or rooming units in a structure housing three or
more such units shall be equivalent to ½ dwelling unit.
 
         (2)   The number of persons who may be housed in non-independent rooms
or apartments (not including hospital or clinic beds) shall not exceed the
number of persons housed in independent dwelling units by a ratio of greater
than three to one (3:1);
         (3)   The number of hospital or clinic beds shall not be more than
fifty (50) percent of the total number of permitted dwelling units;
         (4)   All retail stores and personal service establishments located
within the life care community shall be part of an existing building and may
not exceed twenty (20) percent of the floor area of the building; and
         (5)   The life care community shall provide open space and/or
recreational facilities in the same amount and ratios as required in Section
8.3.1 of this Ordinance.
      (F)   Multi-Family Dwelling, and Multi-Family Dwelling, Mid-Rise
         (1)   Individual storage space containing at least twenty-four (24)
square feet of enclosed floor area with a minimum height of seven (7) feet,
shall be provided for each dwelling unit in a multi-family development. Such
storage space shall be located either in the same building as the dwelling unit
it serves or in an accessory building that may also house parking,
recreational, laundry, or other facilities that serve the occupants of the
development.
         (2)   The development shall include sufficient open space and
recreational facilities to meet the needs of its residents in accordance with
the provisions of Section
8.3.1 of this Ordinance.
         (3)   The development shall provide adequate and appropriate
facilities for waste disposal, and such facilities shall be screened from view
in a manner consistent with the requirements of this Ordinance.
         (4)   The maximum density for multi-family dwelling developments shall
be as follows:
            (a)   In the RMF district, the total density shall be in accordance
with
Table 6.1-1, Table of Density and Dimensional Standards Residential Districts
(Not including TC District);
            (b)   within the TC district, total density shall be in accordance
with
Table 6.1-3, Table of Density and Dimensional Standards Town Center District;
            (c)   for multi-family dwellings approved through the mixed use
district (MXD) zoning process, Section
3.4.5, the maximum density shall be that shown on the approved preliminary
development plan (PDP);
            (d)   for multi-family dwellings approved through the Planned
Development District (PDD) zoning process, Section
3.4.3, the maximum density shall be that shown on the approved master plan.
         (5)   Mid-rise multi-family dwellings shall comply with the following
additional standards:
            (a)   In districts where a mixing of residential and non-
residential uses is allowed, such uses may include ground-level retail stores
and personal service establishments as incidental uses, to provide goods and
services to residents of the building. Greater amounts of retail and/or
personal service establishments may be permitted within a Mixed Use Overlay
District, subject to the provisions of
4.4.2 and Table
5.1-1 of this Ordinance.
         (6)   Multi-family dwelling units shall be allowed in the
Redevelopment Area and first three hundred (300) feet of Infill Area portions
of the Corridor Transition District for the Walnut Street Corridor provided the
following conditions are met:
            (a)   The principal use of the building is for offices or personal
services; and
            (b)   Such uses combined shall not have more than one (1) entrance
for units separate from that of the principal use.
      (G)   Nursing Home
         (1)   The nursing home shall not exceed the density set forth in the
following table:
 
TABLE 5.2-2: DENSITY FOR NURSING HOMES
District          Density (units/acre)
TR                10
GC RMF TC         15
OI ORD            20
Mixed Use Overlay no density limit
 
         (2)   All retail stores and personal service establishments located
within the nursing home shall be part of an existing building and shall not
exceed twenty (20) percent of the floor area of such building; and
         (3)   The nursing home shall provide open space and/or recreational
facilities in the same amount and ratios as required in Section
8.3.1 of this Ordinance.
      (H)   Patio Dwelling
         (1)   In the RMF district, the density of patio dwelling units shall
not exceed twelve (12) dwelling units per acre.
         (2)   In the TR district, the density of patio dwelling units shall
not exceed six (6) dwelling units per acre.
         (3)   There are no density limits for patio homes within a Mixed Use
Overlay District.
         (4)   Density limits for patio homes within the TC district shall be
in accordance with
Table 6.1-3.
      (I)   Residential Use in Non-Residential Building
         In the OI and ORD districts, residential uses may be permitted in non-
residential buildings without a rezoning provided the following standards are
met:
         (1)   A development plan (see Section
3.9) shall be required prior to occupation of any residential uses;
         (2)   At least fifty (50) percent of the building's total floor space
(in square feet) must be reserved for office uses;
         (3)   Up to fifty (50) percent of the building's total floor space (in
square feet) may be utilized for residential uses;
         (4)   No more than twenty (20) percent of the building's total floor
space (in square feet) may be utilized for retail or personal services uses;
         (5)   The development shall include sufficient open space and
recreational facilities to meet the needs of its residents; and
         (6)   All residential and non-residential uses must be integrated into
the same structure, and stand-alone residential structures are prohibited.
      (J)   Residential Use in Mixed-Use Building
         In the HMXD district of the Town Center, at least twenty (20) percent
of the total floor area must be dedicated to a non-residential use.
      (K)   Manufactured Home
         Each manufactured home shall be located on an individual lot meeting
the requirements of the applicable base zoning district and shall meet the
following requirements:
         (1)   All electrical and telephone lines connected directly to the
home shall be installed underground.
         (2)   There shall be a masonry foundation around the exterior
perimeter of all dwellings. The foundation shall have a minimum depth of twelve
(12) inches below grade.
         (3)   The pitch of the main roof shall not be less than one (1) foot
of rise for each four (4) feet of horizontal run. The roofing materials shall
be similar in color, texture, and materials to other dwellings in the same
zoning district in which the home is to be located.
      (L)   Semi-Detached/Attached Dwelling and Townhouse
         (1)   Densities within the TC district shall be in accordance with
Table 6.1-3.
         (2)   All developments shall include sufficient open space and
recreational facilities to meet the needs of its residents in accordance with
the provisions of Section
8.3.1 of this Ordinance.
         (3)   In the Infill Sub-district of the Corridor Transition (CT)
District, townhouses are a permitted use up to five (5) units per acre.
         (4)   Dwellings in the TR, RMF and MUOD zoning districts that have
driveways on alleys shall be limited to a maximum of eight (8) units per
building. All other dwellings in the TR, RMF and MUOD zoning districts shall be
limited to a maximum of five (5) units per building. For such dwellings that
are part of a development plan submitted prior to May 7, 2020 and subsequently
approved in accordance with G.S. 143-755, more than eight (8) or five (5) units
respectively may be attached.
      (M)   Detached Dwelling
         (1)   Detached dwellings constructed in the Infill Area portion of the
Corridor Transition District for the Walnut Street Corridor shall be limited to
a maximum allowable density of five (5) units per acre on parcels or portions
of parcels located three hundred (300) or more feet away from the ultimate
right-of-way boundary for Walnut Street.
         (2)   Detached dwellings may be allowed in a Neighborhood Center
provided the entrance to the subdivision or Planned Development District (PDD)
housing the detached dwellings fronts a thoroughfare or collector roadway.
         (3)   Detached dwellings may be allowed in a Community Center provided
the entrance to the subdivision or Planned Development District (PDD) housing
the detached dwellings fronts a thoroughfare or collector roadway.
         (4)   Detached dwellings may be allowed in a Destination Center
provided the following standards are met:
            (a)   There is an approved mixed use sketch plan that specifies a
reasonable mix of housing types and densities consistent with the vision of the
Comprehensive Plan, including higher-density housing types such as multi-family
dwellings, semidetached/ attached dwellings, or townhouses; and
            (b)   The detached dwellings constitute a reasonable portion of the
total housing stock planned for the Destination Center, and do not dominate the
overall Destination Center housing stock.
         (5)   Detached dwellings may be allowed in the HMXD sub-district of
the Town Center provided the following standards are met:
            (a)   Such uses shall obtain a Special Use Permit consistent with
Section
3.8 of this Ordinance; and
            (b)   The property is located within the Downtown Historic
District.
            (c)   Evidence of issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness from
the Wake County Historic Preservation Commission for any building or property
designated as a Cary/Wake County Landmark shall be provided.
      (N)   Tandem Dwelling Unit
         [Reserved]
      (O)   Manufactured Home Parks
   The following provisions shall apply to manufactured home parks established
prior to July 1, 2003:
         (1)   Manufactured homes lawfully permitted within a manufactured home
park established prior to July 1, 2003 may be removed or replaced with another
manufactured home or relocated to an alternative manufactured home space within
the boundaries of the manufactured home park. A manufactured home shall not be
replaced with a modular home or site-built home.
         (2)   After January 11, 2011, manufactured home park owners shall not
permit the replacement or relocation of a manufactured home, or permit the
addition, relocation or modification of an accessory structure or building to
the manufactured home within the manufactured home park unless all of the
following are met:
            (a)   An application for a building permit shall be submitted for
the replacement or relocation of a manufactured home, or the addition,
relocation or modification of an accessory structure or building to a
manufactured home.
            (b)   The building permit application shall include a sketch that
includes the location of manufactured homes and other improvements on the
manufactured home lot and all adjoining manufactured home lots, sufficient to
demonstrate compliance with the following:
               1.   A minimum separation of ten (10) feet between a
manufactured home on a manufactured home space, and a manufactured home on an
adjoining manufactured home space;
               2.   A minimum separation of ten (10) feet between an accessory
building or structure located on a manufactured home space, and a manufactured
home, accessory building or accessory structure located on an adjoining
manufactured home space; and
               3.   The combined floor area of all detached accessory
structures shall occupy no more than thirty-three percent (33%) of the total
heated floor area of the manufactured home, unless otherwise allowed in this
Ordinance. The accessory structure shall be deemed attached if it is located
closer than five (5) feet to the manufactured home.
         (3)   Manufactured homes, and accessory structures and buildings
existing on January 11, 2011, that do not meet the requirements of
5.2.1(O)(2),shall be deemed conforming with regard to those requirements
provided that:
            (a)   The manufactured home is in compliance with the HUD-
administered National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards
Act of 1974, as amended; and
            (b)   Accessory structures or buildings on the site comply with
requirements of the North Carolina State Building Code.
      (P)   Detached Multi-family Dwellings
         (1)   Detached multi-family dwellings may be allowed in the HMXD sub-
district of the Town Center provided the following standards are met:
            (a)   Such uses shall obtain a Special Use Permit consistent with
Section
3.8 of this Ordinance; and
            (b)   The property is located within the Downtown Historic
District.
            (c)   Evidence of issuance of a Certificate of Appropriateness from
the Historic Preservation Commission for any building or property designated as
a Landmark shall be provided.
   5.2.2   Public/Institutional Uses
      (A)   Athletic Field, Public
         (1)   All facilities shall be designed to be compatible with the
surrounding landscape, such that the minimum possible grading will be required
and the minimum disturbance and removal of existing vegetation will be
required.
         (2)   Any enclosure, such as fences and walls, shall be designed to be
compatible with surrounding structures and shall not include the use of barbed
or razor wire.
         (3)   If installed, exterior lighting shall meet the functional needs
of the facility without adversely affecting adjacent properties or the
neighborhood. Exterior lighting shall not be used before 7:00 am or after 10:00
pm.
      (B)   Day Care Centers
         Day care facilities shall comply with all state and federal laws that
pertain to child health, safety, and welfare. In addition, all day care
facilities shall comply with the following specific requirements:
         (1)   The center shall provide a fenced play area as required by the
General Statutes. The fence shall be a solid (opaque) fence at least four (4)
feet high. This requirement is not applicable for adult day care homes;
         (2)   Landscaping shall be provided in order to blend the center into
the neighborhood, screen its purely functional aspects from the street and
neighboring yards, and absorb and/or deflect any excessive noise; and
         (3)   The structure in which the center is located is similar in
appearance to the character of the neighborhood in terms of architectural
style, predominant building materials, building mass and height, and setbacks.
         (4)   If a new center is proposed for property in a residential
district, then all the development standards of this Ordinance shall be met,
and minor modifications or other reductions to the standards shall not be
granted.
         (5)   If the center is proposed for property in a residential
district, then it must be located on property which fronts a thoroughfare or
collector street as depicted in the Cary Transportation Plan.
      (C)   School
         (1)   Any proposed school, whether public or private, proposed within
a residential district on a site or parcel of twenty (20) acres in size or
smaller shall be required to meet the following standards:
            (a)   Such uses shall obtain a Special Use Permit consistent with
Section
3.8 of this Ordinance;
            (b)   Such uses shall be located on parcel or site which fronts a
thoroughfare or collector roadway; and
            (c)   New schools shall meet all the development standards of this
Ordinance, and minor modifications or other reductions to the standards shall
not be granted; and
            (d)   Expansions or alterations to existing schools shall be
required to meet these requirements to the maximum extent practicable.
            (e)   Any subsequent principle or accessory use associated with an
existing school (which is required to obtain a Special Use Permit) which would
increase the intensity of the facility shall also be required to obtain a
special use. For the purposes of this Section, increases in intensity shall be
measured as increases in vehicular trips generated and/or increases in
impervious surface by five (5) percent or more for either aspect.
         (2)   Temporary structures serving as expansion space for schools are
allowed in all districts in which schools are allowed, subject to the following
standards:
            (a)   Such temporary structures shall not be located between the
principal building and any abutting right-of-way. An exception to this
requirement may be considered where there is no other practical alternative due
to topography, presence of utilities or easements, existence of undisturbed
open space and buffers, or other site features that are beyond the applicant's
control.
            (b)   At least six hundred (600) square feet of evergreen screening
material shall be provided in the immediate vicinity of each temporary
structure in order to screen the base of the structures from the view of other
properties and public streets.
         (3)   Any proposed school, whether public or private, required by
Section
3.9.2 to submit a Traffic Management Plan shall comply with the terms of the
approved Traffic Management Plan.
      (D)   Neighborhood Recreation Center, Public
         (1)   Enclosure Required for Swimming Pools, Hot Tubs, and Spas
            (a)   General Requirement
               In order to protect unattended children from the risk of
drowning:
               1.   All below-ground outdoor swimming pools, hot tubs, or spas
having a depth of eighteen (18) inches or greater at the deepest point shall be
completely surrounded by a fence or wall with a height of no less than four (4)
feet. The fence or wall may be made of any suitable and durable material. The
fence or wall shall be designed so that a four and one-half (4½) inch diameter
sphere cannot pass through any opening. The principal or accessory building may
be used as part of such enclosure.
               2.   All above-ground swimming pools shall maintain gates at
access points into the pool.
               3.   All gates required by this section shall have self-closing
and self-latching devices that keep the gate or door closed at all times when
not in actual use. However, the door of any dwelling that furnishes part of the
enclosure need not be so equipped.
            (b)   Exemption
               A portable spa or hot tub with a safety cover that complies with
ASTM ES13 entitled "Emergency Standard Performance Specifications for Safety
Covers and Labeling Requirements for All Covers for Swimming Pools, Spas, and
Hot Tubs," 1989 edition, is exempt from the requirements of this section.
         (2)   Separate Approval Required
            The approval of the Planning Director shall be required prior to
the construction of a swimming pool, hot tub, or spa covered by subsection (a)
above. The Director shall approve the swimming pool, hot tub, or spa if it
meets all of the above standards.
      (E)   Religious and Other Assembly Uses
         (1)   Any religious or other assembly use (i.e., club, lodge, or hall)
located upon residentially-zoned property that is twenty (20) acres in size or
smaller shall be required to meet the following standards:
            (a)   Such uses shall obtain a Special Use Permit consistent with
Section
3.8 of this Ordinance. This requirement shall also apply to residentially-zoned
properties twenty (20) acres in size or smaller located within a Mixed Use
Overlay District and/or a residentially-designated portion of a planned
development district;
            (b)   New or proposed religious or other assembly uses shall be
located on parcel or site which fronts a thoroughfare or collector roadway; and
            (c)   Such uses shall meet all the development standards of this
Ordinance, and minor modifications or other reductions to the standards shall
not be granted. Existing religious or other assembly uses shall meet this
requirement to the maximum extent practicable.
            (d)   Any subsequent principal or accessory use associated with an
existing religious or other assembly (which is required to obtain a Special Use
Permit) that would increase the intensity of the facility shall also be
required to obtain a special use. For the purposes of this Section, increases
in intensity shall be measured as increases in vehicular trips generated and/or
increases in impervious surface by five (5) percent or more for either aspect.
            (e)   Uses that have or are intended to have more than one worship
ceremony or meeting within any two (2) hour window shall be required to provide
overflow parking at one (1) space for every two and one-half (2.5) persons of
maximum fire-rated occupancy in addition to the standard parking requirements
listed in Section
7.8.
         (2)   Any religious or other assembly use (i.e., club, lodge, or hall;
special event center) required by Section
3.9.2 to submit a Traffic Management Plan shall comply with the terms of the
approved Traffic Management Plan.
         (3)   Special event centers shall be required to meet the following
standards: Outdoor space for tables and/or seating to accommodate event guests
may be provided, however the size of such area shall not exceed the event space
within the building.
 
PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION
For the use-specific standards included in Sections
5.2.2(B), (C) and (E), the intent of prohibiting minor modifications or other
reductions to development standards is to maximize the compatibility of such
proposed uses with surrounding uses when located in residential areas.
Reductions or modifications to development standards such as, but not limited
to, buffers, landscaping, setbacks, parking, and building height (i.e.
standards included in
Chapter 6 - Dimensional Standards and Measurements, and
Chapter 7 - Development and Design Standards of this Ordinance) would be
inconsistent with the intent of creating and operating uses on sites that are
compatible, to the extent practical, with their surroundings.
 
      (F)   College
         (1)   Special Use Permit approval (see Section
3.8) shall be required for colleges within the OI and GC districts if:
            (a)   The campus includes athletic fields, gymnasiums, auditoriums
or residential use including dormitories; or
            (b)   The property is located within four hundred (400) feet of a
residential use or zoning district.
      (G)   Town Owned and/or Operated Facilities and Services
         (1)   The development standards for sites and/or uses, including but
not limited to setbacks, buffers, landscaping, parking, etc., shall be those
specified for the same (or most similar in nature) use listed in
Chapter 12 of this Ordinance.
      (H)   Governmental Offices
         To the extent allowed by state and federal law, (see LDO section
1.6), the following use-specific standards apply to governmental offices that
are not Town owned or operated:
         In any residential, resource/recreational, and/or general commercial
districts, government offices may be allowed as either a permitted or a special
use in
Table 5.1-1, provided that:
         (1)   For a federal office, the federal building security level is
Level 2 or less as defined by the U.S. Department of Justice; and
         (2)   the site contains no physical perimeter security barriers to the
building and/or parking areas through the use of fencing or other obstructions.
         These types of governmental offices may also be allowed in all Town
Center sub-districts that permit residential dwelling units.
         All types of governmental offices may be allowed as either a permitted
or a special use in
Table 5.1-1 or
Table 5.1-2 in all other districts not specifically mentioned above.
   5.2.3   Commercial Uses
      (A)   Athletic Field, Private
         Private athletic fields shall comply with the use-specific standards
for Public Athletic Fields set forth in Section
5.2.2(A).
      (B)   [Reserved]
      (C)   Agricultural Uses
         (1)   Produce Stands
            In the R-40 and R-80 districts, any structure or building used for
the sale of products grown or raised on the premises shall have a floor area or
lot coverage no greater than five hundred (500) square feet, be located no
closer than one hundred (100) feet from the side or rear property line, and
have a height less than fifteen (15) feet. Such uses shall provide safe
vehicular access and adequate parking for customers, and shall comply with
applicable sign requirements as set forth in Section
9.3.2 of this Ordinance.
         (2)   Agri-tourism
            In the R40 and R-80 districts, farming operations may operate
education and entertainment programs including but not limited to corn mazes,
petting zoos of farm animals, hay rides and farming techniques. Accessory uses
to the agri-tourism enterprise may include refreshments and concessions,
entertainment, and the sale of farm or agricultural related products which may
or may not be produced on site.
         (3)   Bona Fide Farms
            Property that is located in the Town's extraterritorial
jurisdiction and that is used for bona fide farm purposes is exempt from the
provisions of this Ordinance to the same extent bona fide farming activities
are exempt from county zoning pursuant to G.S. 160D-903, as further described
in LDO Section
1.6.5.
      (D)   Electronic Gaming Operation
         (1)   In the GC, ORD, and I zoning districts, such use shall be
separated by a minimum of five hundred (500) feet from any residence and/or
residentially-zoned property, religious assembly, licensed day care facility,
public or private school, or another electronic gaming operation. The five
hundred (500)-foot distance shall be measured on a straight line from property
line to property line, with no consideration as to intervening structures,
roads, or land forms.
         (2)   In the ORD district, such use shall be allowed only on
properties within the Airport Overlay District.
         (3)   In the Town Center Commercial (COM) sub-district, such use shall
be separated by a minimum distance of five hundred (500) feet from any other
electronic gaming operation. The five hundred (500)-foot distance shall be
measured on a straight line from property line to property line, with no
consideration as to intervening structures, roads, or land forms.
         (4)   No alcohol may be served in the establishment.
      (E)   Kennel
         (1)   Requirements for All Kennels
            (a)   All kennel buildings shall be sufficiently insulated so that
no unreasonable noise or odor shall be detected off-premises.
            (b)   Indoor and outdoor kennels may be allowed in the R-40 and R-
80 districts as a special use provided that the kennel is accessory to an
existing principal dwelling unit on the same parcel.
         (2)   Additional Requirements for Outdoor Kennels
            An outdoor run or pen shall be located on site and shall be
screened from the view of all adjacent streets and properties by fencing or
vegetation. No unreasonable noise or odor shall be detected off-premises.
      (F)   Commercial Indoor Recreational Facility
         (1)   All swimming pools, hot tubs, and spas shall provide an
enclosure meeting the standards set forth in Section
5.2.2(D) above.
         (2)   In the OI district, the use shall be allowed only if all of the
following conditions are present:
            (a)   The principal use of the building is office;
            (b)   The total floor area of all such uses and/or structures is no
greater than twenty (20) percent of the total gross floor area of the building;
            (c)   Such uses combined do not have more than one (1) entrance for
customers separate from that of the office use;
            (d)   The use does not have a drive-up window, nor an outside
amphitheater, stage, or other provision for live or recorded acoustic or
amplified entertainment outside of the building.
         (3)   In the OFC/INS subdistrict of the TC district, this use may be
allowed as an ancillary use whose primary purpose is to service the needs of
another principal use that is allowed as either a permitted or a special use in
Table
5.1-2, provided that:
            (a)   The total floor area of all such uses and/or structures is no
greater than twenty (20) percent of the total gross floor area of the building;
            (b)   Such uses combined do not have more than one (1) entrance for
customers separate from that of the office use; and
            (c)   The use does not have a drive-up window, nor an outside
amphitheater, stage, or other provision for live or recorded acoustic or
amplified entertainment outside of the building.
      (G)   Nightclub/Bar
         (1)   General Provisions
            The use shall not have a drive-up window, nor an outside
amphitheater, stage, or other provision for live or recorded acoustic or
amplified entertainment outside of the building, unless such feature is
approved as part of a special use permit.
         (2)   Outdoor Activities as Part of a Special Use Permit
            Nightclubs and bars having any outside amphitheater, stage, sports
equipment, playing field or court, or any provision for live or recorded
acoustic or amplified entertainment outside of the building, shall comply with
the following standards:
            (a)   The use shall be located no closer than one hundred (100)
feet from any residential zoning district or use.
            (b)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may establish a closing time
for any outside facility that is earlier than the closing time of the
activities that occur entirely within the building.
         (3)   OI District
            Nightclubs or bars may be approved as a special use in the OI
district provided they comply with the following standards:
            (a)   The principal use of the building shall be office.
            (b)   The total floor area of all such uses shall not be greater
than twenty (20) percent of the total gross floor area of the building.
            (c)   Such uses combined shall not have more than one (1) entrance
for customers separate from that of the office use.
         (4)   In the OFC/INS subdistrict of the TC district, this use may be
allowed as an ancillary use whose primary purpose is to service the needs of
another principal use that is allowed as either a permitted or a special use in
Table
5.1-2, provided that:
            (a)   The total floor area of all such uses and/or structures is no
greater than twenty (20) percent of the total gross floor area of the building;
and
            (b)   Such uses combined do not have more than one (1) entrance for
customers separate from that of the office use.
      (H)   [Reserved]
      (I)   Postal Center, Private
         In the OI district, such uses shall meet the following standards:
         (1)   The principal uses of the business shall be parking and office,
and floor space for the private postal center shall be limited to no more than
twenty (20) percent of the gross square footage of the office building.
         (2)   Vehicle and/or equipment maintenance, repair, and warehouse uses
shall not be permitted.
      (J)   Parking Lot as a Principal Use
         Parking lots shall only be allowed as a permitted principal use of
property if the following conditions are met:
         (1)   The parking lot is used for shared parking with another
principal use and/or offsite parking; or
         (2)   The property is located in the Airport Overlay district.
      (K)   Restaurant; Retail Store
         (1)   OI District
            In the OI district, the use shall be allowed as a permitted use
only if all of the following conditions are present:
            (a)   The principal use of the building is office;
            (b)   The total floor area of all such uses is no greater than
twenty (20) percent of the total gross floor area of the building;
            (c)   Such uses combined do not have more than one (1) entrance for
customers separate from that of the office use;
            (d)   The use does not have a drive-up window, nor an outside
amphitheater, stage, or other provision for live or recorded acoustic or
amplified entertainment outside of the building.
         (2)   In the OFC/INS subdistrict of the TC district, this use may be
allowed as an ancillary use whose primary purpose is to service the needs of
another principal use that is allowed as either a permitted or a special use in
Table
5.1-2, provided that:
            (a)   The total floor area of all such uses and/or structures is no
greater than twenty (20) percent of the total gross floor area of the building;
            (b)   Such uses combined do not have more than one (1) entrance for
customers separate from that of the office use; and
            (c)   The use does not have a drive-up window, nor an outside
amphitheater, stage, or other provision for live or recorded acoustic or
amplified entertainment outside of the building.
         (3)   In the OFC/IND district, the use shall be allowed as a permitted
use provided that:
            (a)   The total floor area of all such uses is no greater than
thirty-three (33) percent of the total gross floor area of the building; and
            (b)   The use does not have a drive-through facility, nor an
outside amphitheater, stage, or other provision for live or recorded acoustic
or amplified entertainment outside of the building.
         (4)   Outdoor Activities
            Restaurants having any outside amphitheater, stage, sports
equipment, playing field or court, or any provision for live or recorded
acoustic or amplified entertainment outside of the building, shall comply with
the following standards:
            (a)   The use shall be located no closer than one hundred (100)
feet from any residential zoning district or use; and
            (b)   The Town Council may establish a closing time for any outside
facility that is earlier than the closing time of the activities that occur
entirely within the building.
         (5)   CT District
            Restaurants (indoor and/or outdoor) and/or retail stores shall be
allowed in the Redevelopment Area and first three hundred (300) feet of Infill
Area portions of the Corridor Transition District for the Walnut Street
Corridor provided the following conditions are met:
            (a)   The principal use of the building is office or personal
services;
            (b)   The total square footage of such uses (whether combined or
otherwise) shall be limited to twenty (20) percent of the total building square
footage;
            (c)   Such uses combined do not have more than one (1) entrance for
customers which is separate from that of the office use; and
            (d)   Such uses do not have a drive-up window, nor an outside
amphitheater, stage or other provision for live or recorded acoustic or
amplified entertainment outside of the building.
      (L)   Radio or TV Broadcasting Studio
         Such uses shall require approval of a special use permit for
associated towers or helipads.
      (M)   Adult Business
         (1)   In the Mixed Use Overlay District, and the portion of the ORD
district outside of the Airport Overlay District, adult businesses may be
permitted with a special use permit (see Section
3.8) provided that:
            (a)   No such business shall locate within two thousand (2,000)
feet of any other adult business, as measured in a straight line from property
line to property line;
            (b)   No adult business shall be located within one thousand
(1,000) feet of a church, public or private elementary or secondary school,
child day care center or nursery school, public park, residences and/or
residentially zoned property, or any establishment with an on-premise ABC
license. The one thousand (1,000) foot distance shall be measured on a straight
line from property line to property line, with no consideration as to
intervening structures, roads or land forms;
            (c)   There shall not be more than one (1) adult business on the
same property or in the same building, structure, or portion thereof;
            (d)   No other principal or accessory use may occupy the same
building, structure, property, or portion thereof with any adult business; and
            (e)   Except for the signs permitted under Section
9.3 of this Ordinance, no other advertisements, displays or signs or other
promotional materials shall be visible to the public from pedestrian sidewalks,
walkways, or vehicular use areas.
         (2)   In the portion of the ORD district within the Airport Overlay
District, adult businesses shall be permitted by right subject to the use-
specific standards listed in
5.2.3(M)(1).
      (N)   Vehicle Filling Station, Vehicle Repair, Vehicle Service, Car
Washes, and Towing and Vehicle Storage
         (1)   No vehicle shall be parked or stored as a source of parts and no
vehicle shall be parked for the purpose of sale or lease/rent.
         (2)   All repairs and storage shall be contained within an enclosed
building. Temporary vehicle storage may be allowed in an outdoor storage area
that shall be no larger than twenty-five (25) percent of the total lot area.
Such areas shall be located to the rear of the principal structure and shall be
screened from offsite views by a solid, decorative fence or masonry wall at
least eight (8) feet in height. The height of materials and equipment stored
shall not exceed the height of the screening fence or wall.
         (3)   No vehicle that has been repaired and is awaiting removal, or
that is awaiting repair, shall be stored or parked for more than thirty (30)
consecutive days.
 
PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION
In cases where a vehicle has been abandoned by its lawful owner prior to or
during the repair process, the vehicle may remain on  site  as long as is
necessary after the thirty (30) day period provided that the owner or operator
of the establishment can demonstrate that steps have been taken to remove the
vehicle following the  premises  using the appropriate legal means.
 
         (4)   Uses established after July 1, 2003 or alterations to existing
uses established prior to July 1, 2003 shall require compliance with Section
14.3 Illegal Discharges to the Storm Sewer System.
         (5)   In the HMXD and MXD subdistricts of the TC district, such uses
may be permitted based upon the following conditions:
            (a)   Such uses must be lawfully established prior to July 1, 2003;
            (b)   Expansion of the building(s) or increased use of the site
beyond that legally established on July 1, 2003 is permitted by right, provided
that such expansions comply with the TC district standards;
            (c)   Maintenance and minor repair of structures and/or the site is
permitted by right;
            (d)   If the use ceases or is interrupted for more than one hundred
and eighty (180) consecutive days, then the use shall not be re-established,
with the exception of vehicle service and repair use, which may be re-
established by right provided that:
               1.   The existing building was legally used for vehicle service
and repair use at some point in past; and
               2.   The building has been vacant for a period of at least
twenty-four (24) months; and
               3.   All restoration activities, and storage of automotive parts
and materials, shall be contained within an enclosed building, except that
storage of vehicles may be allowed in an outdoor storage area that meets all of
the following requirements:
                  a)   is no larger than twenty-five (25) percent of the total
lot area.
                  b)   is located to the rear of the principal structure; and
                  c)   is screened from offsite views by a solid, decorative
fence or masonry wall at least eight (8) feet in height.
         (6)   In the HMXD and MXD subdistricts of the TC district, such uses
may be permitted with a special use permit (see section
3.8) if there is an addition of land to a parcel or site containing such uses
through an action of the owner or their agent after July 1, 2003.
         (7)   These standards shall also apply within the HMXD and MXD
subdistricts to other land uses in the Vehicles and Equipment Use Category of
Table
5.1-2, including but not limited to, car washes and towing and vehicle storage
establishments.
      (O)   Veterinary Hospital/Office
         (1)   No kennel shall be maintained outside of the principal building.
         (2)   Where outdoor enclosed yard area is provided, such yard area
shall be enclosed by a solid, decorative fence or masonry wall at least eight
(8) feet in height.
         (3)   The animal hospital structure shall be insulated and
soundproofed, in order to minimize all loud and disturbing noises that might
disturb those persons in adjoining structures or in the nearby vicinity.
      (P)   Private Transportation Service
         Businesses that provide transportation services to move people from
one (1) location to another location using passenger vehicles such as sedans,
sport utility vehicles, vans, buses, or limousines. The business may include
both an office component and a parking component, with the opportunity for the
parking component to occur independently of the office component, on a separate
lot with a different principal use, if certain conditions are met. This use
does not include taxis or medical transportation vehicles.
         (1)   Vehicle Types Defined
            For the purpose of this section, vehicle types shall be
distinguished as follows:
            (a)   Type I Passenger Fleet Vehicles
               Type I passenger fleet vehicles are limited to two (2)-axle and
four (4)-tire vehicles that are manufactured primarily for the purpose of
carrying passengers. Such vehicles include sedans, coupes, station wagons,
sport utility vehicles and mini-vans.
            (b)   Type II Passenger Fleet Vehicles
               Type II passenger fleet vehicles are limited to two (2) axles
and six (6) tires, and are manufactured primarily for the purpose of carrying
passengers. Such vehicles are typically taller, longer or heavier than Type I
passenger vehicles, and may include stretch limousines and buses.
         (2)   Development Standards
            Specific standards for the private transportation service use,
including both on-site and off-site passenger fleet parking, shall be met in
accordance with
Table 5.2-2a.
 
TABLE 5.2-2a USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR PRIVATE TRANSPORTATION SERVICE
USE-SPECIFIC DEVELOPMENT   ZONING DISTRICTS WHERE USE IS PERMITTED
STANDARDS                  OI          GC           I              MXD
Office Component - Parking As required for Office, Business or Professional,
                           per Table 7.8-1
              Vehicle Type Type I only Type I and   Type I and     Type I only
              (s) Allowed              Type II      Type II
              Maximum
Passenger     Number of    30          60           No limit       30
Fleet Parking vehicles per
Component     site
              Location of              Side or Rear
              Parking      Rear of     of Building  No Restriction Rear of
              Spaces on    Building(s) (s)                         Building(s)
              Site
 
         (3)   Additional Fleet Parking Requirements
            (a)   Such parking spaces shall be in excess of the minimum
required for the principal use of the property.
            (b)   For off-site passenger fleet parking, a notarized statement
from the property owner, or a copy of a parking agreement ensuring permission
to utilize the off-site parking spaces, shall be submitted prior to development
plan approval.
            (c)   When fleet parking is located adjacent to or across a local
street from property that is zoned OI or zoned for residential use, the areas
being used for fleet parking shall be screened from the view of such properties
through the use of either a six (6)-foot tall opaque fence (in addition to
normal buffer planting requirements) or through the use of evergreen
landscaping (minimum height of six (6) feet at installation, planted every six
(6) feet on center) that will screen the view of the fleet parking from the
ground level up. If the evergreen landscaping option is selected in this
situation, then the evergreen material being utilized to provide this required
screening may be counted towards any comparable evergreen plantings associated
with the normal buffer landscape requirements.
      (Q)   Motor Vehicle Sales/Rental
         (1)   In the GC district and the Mixed Use Overlay District, motor
vehicle rental shall be permitted by right based upon the following conditions:
            (a)   The rental office is located within a tenant space in a
general shopping center use;
            (b)   The portion of the parking lot utilized by rental vehicles
consists of no more than ten (10) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet
of heated leasable space for the rental use or as determined by private
contract with the property management, whichever is less;
            (c)   The vehicles available for rent shall be limited to passenger
vehicles; and
            (d)   No signage may be displayed on vehicles.
         (2)   In the GC district and the Mixed Use Overlay District, motor
vehicle sales and rental shall be permitted as Special Uses based upon the
following conditions:
            (a)   The use is proposed or was established or enlarged after
March 22, 2001;
            (b)   The vehicles sales or rental lot is separated from any other
business use by at least a thirty (30) foot Type A perimeter buffer; and
            (c)   A permanent sales or rental office is located on the site of
the sales or rental use.
         (3)   In the HMXD and MXD subdistricts of the TC district, motor
vehicle sales and rental shall be permitted by right based upon the following
conditions:
            (a)   Such uses must be lawfully established prior to July 1, 2003;
            (b)   Expansion of the building(s) or increased use of the site
beyond that legally established on July 1, 2003 is permitted by right, provided
that such expansions comply with the TC district standards;
            (c)   Maintenance and minor repair of structures and/or the site is
permitted by right;
            (d)   If the use ceases or is interrupted for more than one hundred
eighty (180) consecutive days, then the use shall not be re-established;
            (e)   An addition of land to a parcel or site containing such uses
through an action of the owner or their agent after July 1, 2003 shall require
special use permit approval (see Section
3.8).
      (R)   Wellness Center
         (1)   OI District
            In the OI district, the use shall be allowed as a permitted use
only if all of the following conditions are present:
            (a)   The principal use of the building is office;
            (b)   The total floor area of all such uses is no greater than
fifty (50) percent of the total gross floor area of the building, or ten
thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is less;
            (c)   Such uses combined do not have more than one (1) entrance for
customers separate from that of the office use unless required by building or
fire code;
         (2)   ORD District
            In the ORD district, any of these uses shall be permitted as an
ancillary use provided that:
            (a)   The total floor area of all such uses is no greater than
fifty (50) percent of the total gross floor area of the building or ten
thousand (10,000) square feet, whichever is less;
            (b)   Such uses combined do not have more than one (1) entrance for
customers separate from that of the office use unless required by building or
fire code;
      (S)   Trade School
         (1)   Trade schools within the OI and GC districts shall comply with
the following standards:
            (a)   All activities shall be performed inside a building;
            (b)    No outdoor storage shall be associated with the use; and
            (c)   The trade school is not related to metal fabrication,
automotive repair, or other industrial activities.
         (2)   Special Use Permit approval (see Section
3.8) shall be required for trade schools within the OI and GC districts if the
property is located within four hundred (400) feet of a residential use or
zoning district.
   5.2.4   Industrial Uses
      (A)   Outdoor Storage as a Principal Use
         (1)   All outdoor storage areas shall be screened from views from
adjacent parcels and streets by a solid, decorative fence or masonry wall at
least eight (8) feet in height. The height of merchandise, materials, and
equipment stored shall not exceed the height of the screening fence or wall.
         (2)   No customer or vehicular circulation may occur through the area
used for outdoor storage.
         (3)   In the GC district, outdoor storage is limited to twenty-five
(25) percent of the lot area (this limitation shall not apply in the I
district).
         (4)   In the HMXD and MXD subdistricts of the TC district, such uses
may be permitted based upon the following conditions:
            (a)   Such uses must be lawfully established prior to July 1, 2003;
            (b)   Expansion of the building(s) or increased use of the site
beyond that legally established on July 1, 2003 is permitted by right, provided
that such expansions comply with the TC district standards;
            (c)   Maintenance and minor repair of structures and/or the site is
permitted by right;
            (d)   If the use ceases or is interrupted for more than one hundred
and eighty (180) consecutive days, then the use shall not be re-established;
         (5)    In the HMXD and MXD subdistricts of the TC district, such uses
may be permitted with a special use permit (see section
3.8) if there is an addition of land to a parcel or site containing such uses
through an action of the owner or their agent after July 1, 2003.
      (B)   Recycling and Salvage Operation
   In addition to any landscaped buffer required under Section
7.2.3 of this Ordinance, all outdoor storage areas shall be surrounded by a
solid fence that is at least eight (8) feet high, located no less than one
hundred (100) feet from any public right-of-way, and located no less than fifty
(50) feet from any adjacent property.
      (C)   Resource Extraction
         (1)   State Mining Permit
            (a)   Prior to applying for a special use permit, the applicant
shall secure a mining permit issued by the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources, Division of Land Resources, in accordance
with the requirements set forth in the North Carolina Mining Act of 1971 and
G.S. 74-65, as amended;
            (b)   Two (2) copies of all documents required by the State of
North Carolina for a mining permit shall be submitted with the special use
application;
            (c)   If the owner, developer, or operator is granted a
modification of the terms or conditions of his or her State permit or
reclamation plan, the applicant shall be required to reapply to the Town,
within sixty (60) days of approval by the State, to have his or her special use
permit reapproved by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Failure to reapply within
the specified time will result in the automatic revocation of the special use
permit; and
            (d)   The suspension or revocation of a State permit for the use
shall result in automatic revocation of the special use permit.
         (2)   Additional Special Use Permit Requirements
            (a)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may require the submission of
detailed plans, in addition to those required by the soil erosion and
sedimentation control provisions in Section
14.4  of this Ordinance, that specify the type of wind, soil, and water erosion
sedimentation control measures that are to be employed during construction and
general operation of the proposed use;
            (b)   The applicant shall submit additional supporting scientific
data and evidence, such as maps, charts or consultant's reports, satisfactory
to the Zoning Board of Adjustment, to support a conclusion that the standards
and conditions set forth in this Ordinance are met so as to ensure that the
value of the surrounding real property is not depreciated;
            (c)   Recognizing that land values in the Cary area exceed those in
many areas covered by the State Mining Act of 1971, the Zoning Board of
Adjustment may require the applicant to submit a bond, in addition to that
required by the State, for the purpose of reclamation; and
            (d)   The transfer of a special use permit to a new holder shall
require the new holder to apply to the Town within sixty (60) days for transfer
of the special use permit. Failure to apply within the specified time will
result in the automatic revocation of the special use permit.
         (3)   Development Standards
            (a)   All mining activities, buildings, equipment, storage,
parking, grading, related structures, and material shall be located no closer
than three hundred (300) feet to any property line adjacent to said use. An
Opaque Type A buffer, meeting the requirements of this Ordinance (see Section
7.2.3) shall be planted within the three hundred (300) foot setback;
            (b)   All mining activities shall comply with the nuisance and
hazard control standards set forth in Section
14.2; and
            (c)   All mining activities shall conform to the vibration policy
adopted by the North Carolina Department of Health, Environment and Natural
Resources, Division of Land Resources.
      (D)   Telecommunications Facilities
         (1)   Applicability; Definitions.
            This Section
5.2.4(D) applies to telecommunications facilities that are not “qualifying
small wireless facilities,” “qualifying utility poles,” or “qualifying city
utility poles” and that are not exempted in Section
5.2.4(D)(4) or (H)(4). Qualifying small wireless facilities, qualifying utility
poles, and qualifying city utility poles are addressed in Section
5.2.4(H).
            The definitions contained in Section
5.2.4(H) shall apply to this Section
5.2.4(D).
         (2)   Purpose
            The purpose of this section is to:
            (a)   Minimize the impacts of telecommunications facilities on
surrounding areas by establishing standards for location, structural integrity
and compatibility;
            (b)   Encourage the location and co-location of telecommunications
facilities equipment on existing structures thereby minimizing new visual,
aesthetic, and public safety impacts, and to reduce the need for additional
antenna-supporting structures;
            (c)   Encourage coordination between suppliers of
telecommunications services in the Town of Cary and its planning and
development regulation jurisdiction;
            (d)   Accommodate the growing demand for telecommunications
services and the resulting need for telecommunications facilities;
            (e)   Regulate in accordance with all applicable federal and state
laws;
            (f)   Establish review procedures to ensure that applications for
telecommunications facilities are reviewed and acted upon within a reasonable
period of time or any specific period of time required by law;
            (g)   Protect the unique aesthetics of the Town while meeting the
needs of its citizens and businesses to enjoy the benefits of wireless
communications services; and
            (h)   Encourage the use of existing buildings and structures as
locations for telecommunications facilities infrastructure as a method to
minimize the aesthetic impact of related infrastructure.
            It is not the purpose or intent of this section to prohibit, have
the effect of prohibiting, or materially limit or inhibit wireless
communication services; unreasonably discriminate among providers of
functionally equivalent wireless communication services; regulate the
placement, construction or modification of wireless communications facilities
on the basis of the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions where it
is demonstrated that the wireless communications facility does or will comply
with applicable FCC regulations; or prohibit or effectively prohibit
collocations or modification that the town must approve under state or federal
law. The provisions of this Section
5.2.4(D) are in addition to, and do not replace, any obligations an applicant
may have under any franchises, licenses, encroachments, or other permits issued
by the Town.
         (3)   Siting
            (a)   New wireless support structures are prohibited in Town right-
of-way. See LDO Sections
5.2.4(H) and
8.1.4(E) for provisions regarding utility poles.
            (b)   The following list indicates the Town's preferences for
facility locations, in descending order of preference:
            •   Collocations on Existing Wireless Support Structures
            •   Concealed (Stealth) Telecommunications Facility on Existing
Building/Structure
            •   New Concealed (Stealth) Wireless Support Structure
            •   Non-Stealth Telecommunications Facility on Existing Building/
Structure
            •   New Freestanding Non-Stealth Wireless Support Structure
(monopoles)
            •   New Freestanding Non-Stealth Wireless Support Structure
(lattice-type)
            These preferences are intended as guidance for development of an
application for telecommunications facilities.
         (4)   Compliance with Law; Exemptions.
            (a)   Nothing in this ordinance shall be interpreted to excuse
compliance with, or to be in lieu of any other requirement of state or local
law, except as specifically provided herein. Without limitation, the provisions
of this ordinance do not permit placement of telecommunications facilities on
privately-owned utility poles or wireless support structures, or on private
property, without the consent of the property owner or any person who has an
interest in the property.
            (b)   Unless expressly set forth herein, the following categories
of telecommunications facilities are exempt from the requirements in Section
5.2.4(D), provided they meet the location and design requirements set forth
below:
               1.   Any telecommunications facility below sixty-five (65) feet
when measured from ground level which is owned and operated by an amateur radio
operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission and used exclusively
for amateur radio operations.
               2.   Over the air reception devices covered under 47 C.F.R. §
1.4000, so long as it satisfies the requirements set forth in Section
5.3.4(F)(2).
               3.   Removal or replacement of an antenna or equipment on an
existing wireless support structure or base station that does not change the
physical dimensions of the wireless support structure or base station, or
defeat any of the concealment elements of the wireless support structure or
base station.
               4.   Routine maintenance of existing telecommunications
facilities, including activities associated with regular and general upkeep of
transmission equipment, and the replacement of existing telecommunications
facilities with facilities of the same size (so long as any of the concealment
elements of the facilities are not defeated).
               5.   A temporary telecommunications facility, (1) upon the
declaration of a state of emergency by federal, state, or local government, and
a written determination of public necessity by the Town of Cary designees;
except that such facility must comply with all federal and state requirements
and must be removed at the conclusion of the emergency; or (2) if necessary to
continue providing service while a wireless support structure or other
structure upon which the existing telecommunications facility has been placed,
such as a building or water tank, is undergoing maintenance, replacement, or
reconstruction during which it will be impossible or unsafe to operate the
existing telecommunications facility; except that (i) the temporary facility if
located on site must be no taller than the existing wireless support structure
or other structure; (ii) the temporary facility if located off site must be no
taller than one hundred fifty (150) feet and there shall be no more than one
(1) temporary facility per wireless service provider; (iii) the temporary
facility must meet the setback requirements of section
5.2.4(D)(7)(c) (setbacks for concealed (stealth) telecommunications facilities;
these setbacks are applicable for all temporary support structures, whether
concealed (stealth) or non-stealth); (iv) the temporary facility must comply
with all federal and state requirements; and (v) the temporary facility must be
removed within sixty (60) days of the conclusion of the maintenance,
replacement, or reconstruction, or within one (1) year, whichever is shorter,
unless the time is extended by the Planning Director for good cause shown.
               6.   Public safety facilities or installations required for
public safety on public or private property, including transmitters, repeaters,
and remote cameras so long as the facilities are designed to match the
supporting structure.
         (5)   Eligible Facilities Requests and Collocations
            Collocation and eligible facilities requests, as defined in G.S.
160D-931 or 47 U.S.C.1455, shall be processed in accordance with G.S. 160D-933,
160D-934, and/or federal laws and regulations as appropriate. In approving any
eligible facilities request, the Town solely intends to comply with a
requirement of federal law or state law and not to grant any property rights or
interests except as compelled by federal or state law. Without limitation,
approval does not exempt applicant from, or prevent Town from, opposing a
proposed modification that is subject to complaint under the National Historic
Preservation Act or the National Environmental Policy Act. Collocations are
only permitted as provided in LDO Section
5.2.4(D)(6) or (7).
         (6)   Non-Stealth Telecommunications Facility on Existing Building or
Structure
            Non-Stealth Telecommunications facilities on existing buildings or
structures shall be allowed as a permitted use on land used for any purpose in
nonresidential zoning districts, and on land used for non-residential purposes
in the R-40 district, R-80 district, Planned Development District and Mixed Use
Overlay District. Non-stealth telecommunications facilities on existing
buildings or structures are prohibited in the public right-of-way.
            (a)   Height
               (i)   Non-stealth telecommunications facilities on existing
buildings or structures located outside of the right-of-way and not on an
existing utility pole shall have a maximum height as described in
Table 5.2-3. The antenna portion of a non-stealth telecommunications facility
on an existing building or structure shall not exceed ten (10) feet in height.
 
TABLE 5.2-3: MAXIMUM HEIGHT FOR NON-STEALTH TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY ON
EXISTING BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES (outside of right-of-way, not on utility
pole)
                                        Maximum Height (including antennae;
Structure Height                        measured from the height of the
                                        structure)
Over one-hundred fifty (150) feet       Fifteen (15) percent of structure
                                        height
Seventy-five (75) to one hundred forty- Twenty-five (25) percent of structure
nine (149) feet                         height
Less than seventy-five (75) feet        Forty (40) percent of structure height
 
               (ii)   Non-stealth telecommunications facilities are not
permitted to locate on an existing utility pole.
            (b)   The ground-mounted components of non-stealth
telecommunications facilities on existing buildings or structures shall be
located flush to grade where necessary to avoid inconveniencing the public, or
creating a hazard; and to the extent permitted above ground, shall otherwise be
appropriately camouflaged to blend in with the surroundings, and non-reflective
paints shall be used.
            (c)   All structure-mounted telecommunications facilities shall be
designed to meet current building standards and wind load requirements.
         (7)   Concealed (Stealth) Telecommunications Facilities
            (a)   Design Considerations and Visibility
               Concealed (stealth) wireless support structures shall be
designed to complement the physical landscape in which they are intended to be
located. Examples of stealth wireless support structures that may be compatible
include but are not limited to faux pine trees, unipoles/slick sticks, bell
towers, etc. New stealth wireless support structures shall be configured and
located in a manner that shall minimize adverse effects including visual
impacts on the landscape, horizon, and adjacent properties. New freestanding
stealth wireless support structures shall be designed to be compatible with
adjacent structures and landscapes with specific design considerations such as
architectural designs, scale, color, and texture.
            (b)   Review and Decision Authority
               The decision authority and review type for applications for new
concealed (stealth) wireless support structures shall be in accordance with the
following:
 
                     Location of Proposed Stealth Wireless Support Structure
                     Residentially-Zoned                  Residentially-Zoned
Max. Height          Land Used for        Non-Residential Land Used for Non-
                     Residential Purposes Zoning District residential Purposes
                     or Vacant
up to 150 feet       A                    A               A
greater than 150     B                    A               A
feet, up to 175 feet
greater than 175
feet, up to max.     B                    A               A
height allowed
 
A — Planning Director * — Permitted Use with Development Plan Review;
B — Zoning Board of Adjustment — Special Use and Development Plan Review
*   Review and decision by the Planning Director is only permitted when no
reduction in the minimum required setback(s) is requested. If a reduction of
the minimum setback(s) is requested for wireless support structures that could
otherwise be reviewed and decided upon by the Planning Director, review and
decision by the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be required pursuant to LDO
Section
5.2.4(D)(8)(b).
            (c)   Setbacks
               Stealth wireless support structures must comply with the minimum
building setback for the zoning district in which they are located and shall
also be set back as follows:
               1.   From all existing dwellings in a non-residential zoning
district by a minimum of the height of the proposed wireless support structure;
               2.   From the property line of non-residentially zoned property
by a distance equal to one-half (1/2) the height of the proposed wireless
support structure, but in no case less than the minimum required buffer width
(see
Chapter 7 of this Ordinance).
               3.   From the property line of all residentially-zoned property
that is used for residential purposes or is vacant by a minimum of the height
of the proposed wireless support structure;
               4.   From the property line of all residentially-zoned property
used for non-residential purposes by a distance equal to one-half (1/2) the
height of the proposed wireless support structure, but in no case less than the
minimum required buffer width (see
Chapter 7 of this Ordinance); and
               5.   From adjacent road right-of-way boundaries by the height of
the proposed wireless support structure.
            (d)   Height
               The maximum permitted height for stealth wireless support
structures is one-hundred ninety-nine (199) feet.
            (e)   Stealth Antennae
               Stealth antennae shall be allowed as a permitted use in all non-
residential zoning districts, and on residentially-zoned land used for non-
residential purposes. A special use permit granted by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment is required to erect or install any stealth antenna(e) in the RMF
zoning district. Unless otherwise allowed above, stealth antennae shall be
prohibited in all other residential zoning districts. If located in the right-
of-way of any public road or street, stealth antennae shall be located on an
existing utility pole which does not exceed a height of thirty-five (35) feet
above the immediate surrounding ground. Stealth antennae located on an existing
utility pole, whether inside or outside of the right-of-way, shall not be
higher than ten (10) feet above the highest point of the pole. The ground-
mounted components of stealth antennae, whether inside or outside of the right-
of-way, shall be located flush to grade where necessary to avoid
inconveniencing the public, or creating a hazard; and to the extent permitted
aboveground, shall otherwise be appropriately camouflaged to blend in with the
surroundings, and non-reflective paints shall be used.
         (8)   Other Freestanding Non-stealth Wireless Support Structures
            (a)   Review and Decision Authority
               1.   In non-residential zoning districts, a special use permit
granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment is required to erect any freestanding
non-stealth wireless support structure within two hundred (200) feet of the
property line of any property used, zoned, or otherwise approved (e.g., MXD,
MUSP, PDD, etc.) for residential purposes.
               2.   In non-residential zoning districts, freestanding non-
stealth wireless support structures located more than two hundred (200) feet
from the property line of any property used, zoned or otherwise approved (e.g.,
MXD, MUSP, PDD, etc.) for residential purposes may be permitted without a
special use.
               3.   A special use permit granted by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment is required to erect a freestanding non-stealth wireless support
structure in the R40 or R80 zoning districts.
               4.   If a request for reduction of the minimum required setbacks
listed in Section
5.2.4(D) is associated with a freestanding non-stealth wireless support
structure that could otherwise be reviewed and decided upon by the Planning
Director, review and decision by the Zoning Board of Adjustment under a
development plan and special use review as part of a quasi-judicial hearing
process shall be required pursuant to LDO Section
5.2.4(D)(8)(b).
            (b)   Setbacks
               Freestanding non-stealth wireless support structures must comply
with the minimum building setback for the zoning district in which they are
located and shall also be set back as follows:
               1.   From all existing dwellings in a non-residential zoning
district by a minimum of two-hundred (200) feet or two times (2x) the height of
the proposed wireless support structure, whichever is greater;
               2.   From the property line of non-residentially zoned property
by the height of the proposed wireless support structure;
               3.   From the property line of all residentially-zoned property
that is used for residential purposes or is vacant by a minimum of two-hundred
(200) feet or two times (2x) the height of the proposed wireless support
structure, whichever is greater;
               4.   From the property line of all residentially-zoned property
used for non-residential purposes by the height of the proposed wireless
support structure; and
               5.   From adjacent road right-of-way boundaries by the height of
the proposed wireless support structure.
            (c)   Height
               The maximum permitted height for freestanding non-stealth
wireless support structures is three-hundred fifty (350) feet.
         (9)   Additional Requirements/Standards for All Wireless Support
Structures
            (a)   Existing Wireless Support Structures
               New antennae may be co-located upon wireless support structures
that exist on the effective date of this Ordinance. A request for an increase
in height for an existing wireless support structure shall require issuance of
a special use permit by the Zoning Board of Adjustment if a special use permit
would be required to erect a new wireless support structure at the requested
height.
            (b)   Collocation Required
               Wireless support structures shall be constructed to accommodate
antenna arrays as follows:
               1.   All freestanding wireless support structures up to one
hundred twenty (120) feet in height shall be engineered and constructed to
accommodate no less than four (4) antenna arrays.
               2.   All wireless support structures between one hundred twenty-
one (121) feet and one hundred fifty (150) feet shall be engineered and
constructed to accommodate no less than five (5) antenna arrays.
               3.   All wireless support structures between one hundred fifty-
one (151) feet and taller shall be engineered and constructed to accommodate no
less than six (6) antenna arrays.
            (c)   General Development Standards
               1.   Design and Neighborhood Compatibility
                  a.   The exterior appearance of all associated support
structures and buildings shall be compatible with the other buildings in the
surrounding area. Telecommunications facilities shall be blended with the
natural surroundings as much as possible. Colors and materials shall be used
that are compatible with the surrounding area, except when otherwise required
by applicable federal or state regulations. Telecommunications facilities shall
be located, designed, and/or screened to blend in with the existing natural or
built surroundings to reduce the visual impacts as much as possible, and to be
compatible with neighboring land uses and the character of the community.
                  b.   The review and decision body may require the applicant
to apply to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for compliance with FAA
standards for a dual lighting system rather than a red and white marking
pattern, when the review and decision-making body determines such a marking
pattern would cause aesthetic blight due to the visibility of the wireless
support structure.
                  c.   Support buildings located in any residential district
may not be used as an employment center for any worker. This provision does not
prohibit the periodic maintenance or periodic monitoring of equipment and
instruments.
                  d.   No sign shall be permitted on any telecommunications
facility except for official or public notice or warning signs required by a
valid and applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation or chapter; by a
public utility company; or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
               2.   Buffering and Screening
                  a.   All fences and walls shall be screened in accordance
with the requirements of
Chapter 7 of this Ordinance.
                  b.   The base of the wireless support structure and each guy
anchor shall be surrounded by an opaque fence or wall at least eight (8) feet
in height.
            (d)   Neighborhood Meeting
               At the time of submitting an application for a proposed wireless
support structure that requires approval as a special use, the applicant shall
submit written documentation that they have conducted a neighborhood meeting,
to which owners of property within four hundred (400) feet of the subject
property have been invited, to explain the proposed facility and answer
questions. Documentation should include the time, date, and location of the
meeting; a list of meeting attendees; a brief summary of any presentations and/
or information discussed; and questions/concerns expressed by neighboring
property owners.
            (e)   Balloon Test
               A balloon test shall be required for all wireless support
structures that require approval as a special use proposed within four hundred
(400) feet of property zoned and used or otherwise approved for residential
purposes. The balloon test shall be required prior to the submittal of photo
simulations in order to illustrate the proposed height of the wireless support
structure. The applicant shall arrange to raise a colored balloon no less than
three (3) feet in diameter at the maximum height of the proposed wireless
support structure, and within fifty (50) horizontal feet of the center of the
proposed wireless support structure.
               The applicant shall meet the following for the required balloon
test:
               1.   Applicant must inform the Planning Department and abutting
property owners within four hundred (400) feet of the subject property in
writing of the date and times, including alternative date and times, of the
test at least fourteen (14) days in advance.
               2.   The date, time, and location, including alternative date,
time and location, of the balloon test shall be advertised in a locally
distributed paper by the applicant at least seven (7) but no more than fourteen
(14) days in advance of the test date.
               3.   The balloon shall be flown at the required height for at
least four (4) consecutive hours during daylight hours on the date chosen. The
applicant shall record the weather conditions during the balloon test.
         (10)   Additional Requirements/Standards for All Telecommunications
Facilities Requiring a Special Use Permit
            (a)   Availability of Existing Structures
               Applicants seeking a special use permit for wireless support
structures greater than seventy-five (75) feet in height, and proposed to be
located within three thousand (3,000) feet of any other wireless support
structure greater than seventy-five (75) feet in height, shall provide evidence
that reasonable efforts have been made to lease or otherwise acquire space on
all existing, planned, or constructed wireless support structures. No new
freestanding wireless support structure shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates that no existing or previously approved wireless support structure
can reasonably be used for the telecommunications facility placement instead of
the construction of a new wireless support structure; that residential,
historic, and designated scenic areas cannot be served from outside the area;
or that the proposed height of a new wireless support structure or initial
telecommunications facility placement or a proposed height increase of a
substantially changed wireless support structure, or replacement wireless
support structure, is necessary to provide the applicant’s designed service.
Collocation on an existing wireless support structure is not reasonably
feasible if collocation is technically or commercially impractical or the owner
of the wireless support structure is unwilling to enter into a contract for
such use at fair market value.
            (b)   Setback Reductions
               1.   In considering an application for special use and/or
development plan for telecommunications facilities, the ZBOA may grant a
reduction of the minimum required setbacks listed in Section
5.2.4(D) upon consideration of circumstances or aspects which reduce the off-
site effects of the facility on adjacent properties. Such circumstances or
aspects may include, but are not limited to: topography; berms; the proximity
of existing or potential uses; existing vegetation and improvements made or
proposed to the site to obscure or reduce the visibility of the wireless
support structure from adjacent properties; the concentration of existing and/
or proposed wireless support structures in the area; and whether the height,
design (including structural features), placement or other characteristics of
the proposed wireless support structure could be modified to have a less
intrusive impact.
               2.   Requests under this sub-section may be approved provided
that such action is not inconsistent with the general purposes and applicable
approval criteria of this Ordinance. The ZBOA, in considering any request(s)
for reduction of the minimum required setbacks under this Section, shall
consider any unique circumstances for such a request(s).
            (c)   Conditions
               Notwithstanding any of the standards of this Section, the ZBOA
may require any other reasonable conditions (including any modifications of the
standards in this Section
5.2.4(D)) to mitigate the impact of the wireless support structure on adjacent
properties and uses including, but not limited to, conditions or modifications
related to the style, height, and design of the facility.
         (11)   Outside Experts and Disputes
            (a)   Review by an outside consultant shall be required for all
facilities requiring approval of a special use permit. The fee for review by
the outside consultant shall be collected together with the application fee for
the special use permit. Additional reasonable and cost based fees may be
imposed for costs incurred should the applicant amend its application.
Selection of the outside consultant shall be at the sole discretion of the
Town.
            (b)   If an applicant for a telecommunications facility claims that
one (1) or more standards of this Ordinance are inconsistent with federal law
as applied to a particular property, or would prohibit the effective provision
of wireless communications within the relevant market area, the decision-making
body may require that the application be reviewed by a qualified engineer for a
determination of the accuracy of such claims. Any costs shall be charged to the
applicant.
         (12)   Standard Conditions
            (a)   Applicant must obtain all other required permits,
authorizations, approvals, agreements, and declarations that may be required
for installation, modification, and/or operation of the proposed facility under
federal, state, or local law, rules, or regulations, including but not limited
to encroachment agreements and FCC approvals. An approval issued under this
Section
5.2.4(D) is not in lieu of any other permit required under the LDO or Town
Code, nor is it a franchise, license, or other authorization to occupy the
public right-of-way, or a license, lease, or agreement authorizing occupancy of
any other public or private property. It does not create a vested right in
occupying any particular location, and an applicant may be required to move and
remove facilities at its expense consistent with other provisions of applicable
law. An approval issued in error, based on incomplete or false information
submitted by an applicant or that conflicts with the provisions of the LDO, is
not valid. No person may maintain a telecommunications facility in place unless
required state or federal authorization remain in force.
            (b)   All telecommunications facilities and related equipment,
including but not limited to fences, cabinets, poles, and landscaping, shall be
maintained in good working condition over the life of the use. This shall
include keeping the structures maintained to the visual standards established
at the time of approval. The telecommunications facility shall remain free from
trash, debris, litter, graffiti, and other forms of vandalism. Any damage shall
be repaired as soon as practicable, and in no instance more than thirty (30)
calendar days from the date of notification by the Town. All the
telecommunications facility equipment must be removed upon the expiration/
termination/revocation of the approval and/or when no longer in operation,
whichever occurs first.
               In public rights-of-way, damaged or deteriorated components must
be corrected within five (5) business days of notification. If a
telecommunications facility or portions of a telecommunications facility are
taken out of service, the components must be removed within thirty (30)
business days of being taken out of service, and affected facilities restored
to their prior condition.
            (c)   The property owner(s) or applicant shall submit a
certification letter from a North Carolina certified land surveyor or licensed
engineer which verifies that structure height complies with the approved
development plan.
            (d)   Any approval issued by the Town for a new wireless support
structure or collocation that is a substantial change shall be conditioned on
the construction of the approved facilities within twenty-four (24) months.
            (e)   The applicant or owner shall maintain onsite at the
telecommunications facility contact information for all parties responsible for
maintenance of the facility.
            (f)   Telecommunications facilities, whether operating alone or in
conjunction with other facilities, shall not generate radio frequency emissions
in excess of the standards established by the Federal Communications
Commission.
            (g)   After written notice to the applicant and/or owner, the Town
may require the relocation, at the applicant/owner’s expense and according to
the then-existing standards for telecommunication facilities, of any
telecommunication facility located in the public right-of-way, as necessary for
maintenance or reconfiguration of the right-of-way or for other public
projects, or take any other action or combination of actions necessary to
protect the health and welfare of the Town.
            (h)   Collocation or modification of telecommunications facilities
on an existing non-conforming wireless support structure or base station shall
not be construed as an expansion, enlargement, or increase in intensity of a
non-conforming structure and/or use, provided that the collocation or
modification constitute an eligible facilities request.
            (i)   No portion of a telecommunications facility may be placed in
the public right-of-way in a manner that:
               1.   Obstructs pedestrians or vehicular or bicycle access,
obstructs sight lines or visibility for traffic, traffic signage, or signals;
or interferes with access by persons with disabilities. An applicant may be
required to place equipment in vaults to avoid obstructions or interference;
               2.   Results in ground-mounted, above-ground equipment cabinets
in the public right-of-way associated with the support structure that are ten
percent (10%) larger in height or overall volume than other equipment cabinets
in the same area; or
               3.   Involves placement of pole-mounted equipment (other than
cabling) whose lowest point is lower than eight (8) feet above ground level.
         (13)   Submittal Requirements
            (a)   In addition to the submittal requirements of Sections
3.8 (Special Uses) and
3.9 (Subdivision Plats and Development Plans) of this Ordinance, as may be
applicable, applications for proposed telecommunications facilities shall also
include maps, reports, and documents as specified by the Planning Director. At
a minimum, this information shall describe the facility with regard to its
proposed location, design, and operation; and, if applicable, a clear statement
that the request is being made as an eligible facilities request under state
law and/or federal law.
            (b)   If, as part of review by an outside expert, additional
submittal information is determined to be necessary in order to review the
application for compliance with this Ordinance, such information shall be
required regardless of the items initially submitted with the application.
         (14)   Nonconforming Setbacks for Existing Wireless Support Structures
            Wireless support structures that do not meet the minimum required
setbacks from lots that were created after the construction of the wireless
support structure shall be deemed conforming with regard to setbacks for the
purposes of Section
5.2.4(D).
            Note: Refer to Section
6.2.2(C) for requirements associated with creating residentially zoned lots
from an existing lot or parcel that contains a wireless support structure
(stealth or non-stealth).
      (E)   Research Laboratory
         In the MXDR subdistrict of the TC district, such uses shall be
permitted by right based upon the following conditions:
         (1)   Such uses must be lawfully established prior to July 1, 2003;
         (2)   Expansion of the building(s) or increased use of the site beyond
that legally established on July 1, 2003 is permitted by right, provided that
such expansions comply with the TC district standards;
         (3)   Maintenance and minor repair of structures and/or the site is
permitted by right;
         (4)   If the use ceases or is interrupted for more than one hundred
and eighty (180) consecutive days, then the use shall not be re-established;
         (5)   An addition of land to a parcel or site containing such uses
through an action of the owner or their agent after July 1, 2003 shall require
special use permit approval (see Section
3.8).
      (F)   Warehousing and Distribution Establishment and Wholesale
Establishment
         (1)   In the HMXD and MXD subdistricts of the TC district, such uses
may be permitted based upon the following conditions:
            (a)   Such uses must be lawfully established prior to July 1, 2003;
            (b)   Expansion of the building(s) or increased use of the site
beyond that legally established on July 1, 2003 is permitted by right, provided
that such expansions comply with the TC district standards;
            (c)   Maintenance and minor repair of structures and/or the site is
permitted by right;
            (d)   If the use ceases or is interrupted for more than one hundred
and eighty (180) consecutive days, then the use shall not be re-established;
         (2)   In the HMXD and MXD subdistricts of the TC district, such uses
may be permitted with a special use permit (see Section
3.8) if there is an addition of land to a parcel or site containing such uses
through an action of the owner or their agent after July 1, 2003.
      (G)   Light Industrial
         (1)   In the HMXD and COM Sub-districts of the Town Center, goods
produced on site shall be available for retail purchase on the site.
         (2)   In the MXD Sub-district of the Town Center, such use shall be
allowed by right if goods produced on site are available for retail purchase on
the site. Otherwise, such use may be allowed as a special use.
      (H)   Small Wireless Facilities
         (1)   Purpose
            The purpose of this section is to:
            (a)   Minimize the impacts of small wireless facilities on
surrounding areas by establishing standards for location, structural integrity
and compatibility;
            (b)   Encourage the location and collocation of small wireless
facilities equipment on existing structures thereby minimizing new visual,
aesthetic, and public safety impacts, and to reduce the need for additional
antenna-supporting structures;
            (c)   Encourage coordination between suppliers of small wireless
facilities in the Town of Cary and its planning and development regulation
jurisdiction;
            (d)   Accommodate the growing demand for wireless services and the
resulting need for small wireless facilities;
            (e)   Regulate in accordance with all applicable federal and state
laws;
            (f)   Establish review procedures to ensure that applications for
small wireless facilities are reviewed and acted upon within a reasonable
period of time or any specific period of time required by law;
            (g)   Protect the unique aesthetics of the Town while meeting the
needs of its citizens and businesses to enjoy the benefits of wireless
communications services; and
            (h)   Encourage the use of existing buildings and structures as
locations for small wireless facilities infrastructure as a method to minimize
the aesthetic impact of related infrastructure.
               It is not the purpose or intent of this section to prohibit,
have the effect of prohibiting, or materially limit or inhibit wireless
communications services; unreasonably discriminate among providers of
functionally equivalent wireless communication services; regulate the
placement, construction or modification of wireless communications facilities
on the basis of the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions where it
is demonstrated that the small wireless facility does or will comply with
applicable FCC regulations; or prohibit or effectively prohibit collocations or
modification that the town must approve under state or federal law. The
provisions of this Section
5.2.4(H) are in addition to, and do not replace, any obligations an applicant
may have under any franchises, licenses, encroachments, or other permits issued
by the Town.
         (2)   Definitions
            The following terms shall be defined as follows:
            ACCESSORY EQUIPMENT means any equipment installed and owned by a
third party used to deliver a service (other than a communications service) to
a telecommunications facility, such as an electric meter.
            ANTENNA has the same meaning as the term “antenna” defined in G.S.
Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3.
            APPLICABLE CODES has the same meaning as the term “applicable
codes” defined in G.S. Chapter 160A, Part 3E.
            BASE STATION means a structure or equipment at a fixed location
that enables Federal Communications Commission licensed or authorized wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network. The term
does not encompass a wireless support structure or any equipment associated
with such structure. The term includes wireless facilities.
            1.   The term includes, but is not limited to, equipment associated
with wireless communications services such as private, broadcast, and public
safety services, as well as unlicensed wireless services and fixed wireless
services such as microwave backhaul.
            2.   The term includes, but is not limited to, radio transceivers,
antennae, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and
comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration (including
Distributed Antenna Systems and small wireless facilities).
            3.   The term includes any structure other than a wireless support
structure that, at the time the relevant application is filed with the Town
under this section, supports or houses equipment described in paragraphs (1)
through (2) above that has been reviewed and approved under the applicable
zoning or siting process, or under another State or local regulatory review
process, even if the structure was not built for the sole or primary purpose of
providing such support.
            4.   The term does not include any structure that, at the time the
relevant application is filed with the Town under this ordinance, does not
support or house equipment described in paragraphs (1)-(2) above.
            CITY UTILITY POLE has the same meaning as the term “city utility
pole” as defined in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3.
            COLLOCATION has the same meaning as the term “collocation” as
defined in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3.
            CONCEALED WIRELESS FACILITY, CONCEALED WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE,
or CONCEALED ANTENNA means a stealth wireless facility, stealth wireless
support structure, or stealth antenna.
            CONCEALMENT ELEMENT means any design feature, including but not
limited to painting, shielding requirements, shrouds, and restrictions on
location or height in relation to the surrounding area that are intended to
make a telecommunications facility less visible to the casual observer and to
make the facility look like something other than a telecommunications facility.
The design elements of a concealed (stealth) telecommunications facility are
concealment elements. Concealment elements need not have been explicitly
articulated as a condition or requirement of a prior approval; any design
element considered by the Town in its approval of a stealth wireless support
structure or stealth wireless facility is a concealment element, including
requirements for walls or fences surrounding equipment. Such design elements
are intended to be conditions ensuring the equipment is fully obscured and
looks like something other than a telecommunications facility.
            ELIGIBLE FACILITIES REQUEST means any request for modification of
an existing wireless support structure or base station that does not
substantially change the physical dimensions of such telecommunications tower
or base station, as defined in either 47 C.F.R. 1.40001(b) or G.S. Chapter
160D, Article 9, Part 3.
            MONOPOLE means a single, self-supporting, freestanding pole-type
structure built for the sole purpose of supporting one or more antennae. For
the purposes of this LDO, a utility pole is not a monopole.
            QUALIFYING CITY UTILITY POLE means a modified or replacement city
utility pole that does not exceed fifty (50) feet above ground level and that
is associated with a new small wireless facility that does not extend more than
ten (10) feet above such city utility pole.
            QUALIFYING SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY means a new small wireless
facility that does not extend more than ten (10) feet above the utility pole,
city utility pole, or wireless support structure on which it is collocated and
is located either (i) in the Town right-of-way or (ii) outside of Town right-
of-way on property other than single family residential property.
            QUALIFYING SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY means a new small wireless
facility that does not extend more than ten (10) feet above the utility pole,
city utility pole, or wireless support structure on which it is collocated and
is located either (i) in the Town right-of-way or (ii) outside of Town right-
of-way on non-residential or multi-family residential property.
            SHROUD means a box or other container that contains, and is
designed to camouflage or conceal the presence of, a telecommunications
facility, antenna, or accessory equipment.
            SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY has the same meaning as the term “small
wireless facility” as defined in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3.
            STEALTH WIRELESS FACILITY, STEALTH WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE, or
STEALTH ANTENNA means any telecommunications facility, wireless support
structure, or antenna that is integrated as an architectural feature of a
structure or that is designed to camouflage or conceal the presence of the
telecommunications facility, wireless support structure, or antenna so that the
purpose of the telecommunications facility, wireless support structure, or
antenna is not readily apparent to a casual observer. Any telecommunications
facility, wireless support structure, or antenna that was approved with
concealment elements is a stealth wireless facility, wireless support
structure, or antenna.
            SUBSTANTIAL CHANGE has the same meaning as the term “substantial
change” as defined by Federal Communications Commission regulations, 47 CFR
1.40001(b)(7).
            SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION has the same meaning as the term
“substantial modification” as defined in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3.
            TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY means a facility consisting of a base
station and accessory equipment, and the utility pole, city utility pole, or
wireless support structure, if any, associated with the facility.
            UTILITY POLE has the same meaning as the term “utility pole” as
defined in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3.
            WIRELESS FACILITY has the same meaning as the term “wireless
facility” as defined in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 3. The term includes
small wireless facilities.
            WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE has the same meaning as the term
“wireless support structure” as defined in G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part
3. A utility pole or city utility pole is not a wireless support structure.
         (3)   Siting
            To protect the unique aesthetics of the Town, to minimize new
visual, aesthetic, and public safety impacts, and to reduce the need for
additional antenna-supporting structures, the Town prefers that small wireless
facilities be located outside the public right-of-way; collocated on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures; concealed; and have their
accessory equipment mounted on the utility pole or wireless support structure.
These preferences are intended as guidance for development of an application
for small wireless facilities.
         (4)   Applicability; Compliance with Law; Exemptions
            (a)   The standards established herein shall apply only to
qualifying small wireless facilities, qualifying utility poles, and qualifying
city utility poles, as defined herein. Nothing in this ordinance shall be
interpreted to excuse compliance with, or to be in lieu of, any other
requirement of state or local law, except as specifically provided herein.
Without limitation, the provisions of this ordinance do not permit placement of
small wireless facilities on privately-owned utility poles or wireless support
structures, or on private property, without the consent of the property owner
or any person who has an interest in the property.
            (b)   Unless expressly set forth herein, the following categories
of small wireless facilities are exempt from the requirements in Section
5.2.4(H), provided they meet the location and design requirements set forth
below:
               1.   Any telecommunications facility below sixty-five (65) feet
when measured from ground level which is owned and operated by an amateur radio
operator licensed by the Federal Communications Commission and used exclusively
for amateur radio operations.
               2.   Over the air reception devices covered under 47 C.F.R. §
1.4000, so long as it satisfies the requirements set forth in Section
5.3.4(F)(2).
               3.   Eligible facilities requests that satisfy the requirements
set forth in Section
5.2.4(D)(5).
               4.   Routine maintenance of small wireless facilities; the
replacement of small wireless facilities with small wireless facilities that
are the same size or smaller; or installation, placement, maintenance, or
replacement of micro wireless facilities (as defined in G.S. Chapter 160D,
Article 9, Part 3) that are suspended on cables strung between existing utility
poles or city utility poles in compliance with all applicable laws or
regulations by or for a communications service provider authorized to occupy
the Town rights-of-way and who is remitting taxes under G.S. 105-164.4(a)(4c)
or (a)(6).
               5.   A temporary small wireless facility, upon the declaration
of a state of emergency by federal, state, or local government, and a written
determination of public necessity by the Town of Cary; except that such
facility must comply with all federal and state requirements and must be
removed at the conclusion of the emergency.
               6.   Public safety facilities or installations required for
public safety on public or private property, including transmitters, repeaters,
and remote cameras so long as the facilities are designed to match the
supporting structure.
               7.   A small wireless facility located in an interior structure
or upon the site of any stadium or athletic facility, provided that the small
wireless facility complies with applicable codes.
         (5)   Collocation of Small Wireless Facilities
            Collocation of small wireless facilities on land used as single-
unit residential property or vacant land that is zoned for single-unit
residential development, and any small wireless facility that extends more than
ten (10) feet above the utility pole, city utility pole, or wireless support
structure on which it is collocated, are subject to LDO Section
5.2.4(D). Notwithstanding the foregoing, replacement of an existing streetlight
for which the Town is financially responsible with a streetlight capable of
including a collocated, concealed small wireless facility is permitted on land
used as single-unit residential property or vacant land that is zoned for
single-unit residential development, pursuant to the requirements of Section
5.2.4(H)(6).
            Collocations of qualifying small wireless facilities in Town right-
of-way or outside of Town right-of-way on land that is in a non-residential
zoning district or land that is used for non-single-unit residential property,
are subject to the following requirements:
            (a)   Application. Applicants must complete an application as
specified in form and content by the Town.
            (b)   Height. Each new small wireless facility shall not extend
more than ten (10) feet above the utility pole, city utility pole, or wireless
support structure on which it is collocated.
            (c)   Public Safety. In order to protect public safety:
               (1)   Small wireless facilities shall cause no signal or
frequency interference with public safety facilities or traffic control devices
and shall not physically interfere with other attachments that may be located
on the existing pole or structure.
               (2)   A structural engineering report prepared by an engineer
licensed by the State of North Carolina shall be submitted by the applicant,
certifying that the host structure is structurally and mechanically capable of
supporting the proposed additional antenna or configuration of antennae and
other equipment, extensions, and appurtenances associated with the
installation.
               (3)   A traffic and pedestrian management plan must be submitted
for any installation that requires work in the public right-of-way.
               (4)   No portion of a small wireless facility may be placed in
the public right-of-way in a manner that:
                  i.   Obstructs pedestrians or vehicular or bicycle access,
obstructs sight lines or visibility for traffic, traffic signage, or signals;
or interferes with access by persons with disabilities. An applicant may be
required to place equipment in vaults to avoid obstructions or interference; or
                  ii.   Involves placement of pole-mounted equipment (other
than cabling) whose lowest point is lower than eight (8) feet above ground
level.
               (5)   An abandoned small wireless facility shall be removed
within one hundred eighty (180) days of abandonment.
            (d)   Objective Design Standards.
               (1)   No signs are permitted on small wireless facilities except
for official or public notice or warning signs required by a valid and
applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation or chapter; by a public
utility company; or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
               (2)   Small wireless facilities shall be blended with the
natural surroundings as much as possible. Colors and materials shall be used
that are compatible with the surrounding area, except when otherwise required
by applicable federal or state regulations. Small wireless facilities shall be
located, designed, and/or screened to blend in with the existing natural or
built surroundings to reduce the visual impacts as much as possible, and to be
compatible with neighboring land uses and the character of the community.
            (e)   Stealth and Concealment.
               (1)   All small wireless facilities shall be stealth facilities.
Antenna and accessory equipment must be shrouded or otherwise concealed. Small
wireless facilities shall blend with or match the structure to which they are
attached.
               (2)   Small wireless facilities to be collocated with a
streetlight must be designed such that all cabling is inside the streetlight
pole.
            (f)   Screening, Landscaping, and Spacing Requirements for Ground
Equipment.
               (1)   Ground equipment shall be screened, to the extent
possible, with evergreen plantings or other acceptable alternatives approved by
the Planning Director.
            (g)   Historic Preservation.
               (1)   Small wireless facilities located in designated historic
districts or on property designated as a landmark (pursuant to G.S. Chapter
160D, Article 9, Part 4) shall be required to obtain a Certificate of
Appropriateness as required by LDO Section
3.27.
            (h)   Applicable Codes.
               (1)   Small wireless facilities must meet applicable codes.
         (6)   Utility Poles and City Utility Poles Associated with Small
Wireless Facilities
            The placement of new utility poles is prohibited by the Town’s
undergrounding requirements in LDO Section
8.1.4(E)(2), unless permitted by that section. Modification or replacement of
qualifying utility poles and qualifying city utility poles existing as of
December 14, 2017, is not prohibited; however, the maintenance, modification,
operation, or replacement of qualifying utility poles and qualifying city
utility poles associated with small wireless facilities are subject to the
following requirements:
            (a)   Application.
               Applicants must complete an application as specified in form and
content by the Town.
            (b)   Height.
               Each modified or replacement utility pole or city utility pole
shall not exceed (i) forty (40) feet above ground level on property zoned for
or used as single-unit residential property, or in the right-of-way adjacent to
such property, where existing utilities are installed underground, unless a
variance is granted pursuant to LDO Section
3.20; or (ii) fifty (50) feet above ground level on all other property. Each
new small wireless facility shall not extend more than ten (10) feet above the
associated utility pole, city utility pole, or wireless support structure on
which it is collocated.
            (c)   Small Wireless Facilities.
               All requirements of LDO Section
5.2.4(H)(5) apply to small wireless facilities located on a utility pole, city
utility pole, or wireless support structure.
            (d)   Public Safety.
               In order to protect public safety:
               (1)   No replacement utility poles or city utility poles
associated with a small wireless facility are permitted in the clear zone as
defined in the Town of Cary Standard_Specifications_&_Details_Manual unless
such replacement pole is breakaway rated.
               (2)   No portion of a utility pole or city utility pole
associated with a small wireless facility may be placed in the public right-of-
way in a manner that:
                  i.   Obstructs pedestrians or vehicular or bicycle access,
obstructs sight lines or visibility for traffic, traffic signage, or signals;
or interferes with access by persons with disabilities. An applicant may be
required to place equipment in vaults to avoid obstructions or interference; or
                  ii.   Involves placement of pole-mounted equipment (other
than cabling) whose lowest point is lower than eight (8) feet above ground
level.
            (e)   Objective Design Standards.
               (1)   No signs are permitted on utility poles or city utility
poles except for official or public notice or warning signs required by a valid
and applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation or chapter; by a public
utility company; or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
               (2)   Utility poles or city utility poles associated with a
small wireless facility shall be blended with the natural surroundings as much
as possible. Colors and materials shall be used that are compatible with the
surrounding area, except when otherwise required by applicable federal or state
regulations. Utility poles or city utility poles associated with a small
wireless facility shall be located, designed, and/or screened to blend in with
the existing natural or built surroundings to reduce the visual impacts as much
as possible, and to be compatible with neighboring land uses and the character
of the community.
            (f)   Stealth and Concealment.
               (1)   All antenna and accessory equipment must be shrouded or
otherwise concealed and shall blend with or match the pole to which they are
attached.
               (2)   Small wireless facilities to be collocated with a
streetlight must be designed such that all cabling is inside the streetlight
pole.
            (g)   Historic Preservation.
               (1)   Utility poles or city utility poles associated with a
small wireless facility located in designated historic districts or on property
designated as a landmark (pursuant to G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 9, Part 4)
shall be required to obtain a Certificate of Appropriateness as required by LDO
Section
3.27.
            (h)   Applicable Codes.
               (1)   Utility poles and city utility poles associated with a
small wireless facility must meet applicable codes.
      (7)   Standard Conditions
         (a)   Applicant must obtain all other required permits,
authorizations, approvals, agreements, and declarations that may be required
for installation, modification, and/or operation of the proposed facility under
federal, state, or local law, rules, or regulations, including but not limited
to encroachment agreements and FCC approvals. An approval issued under this
Section
5.2.4(H) is not in lieu of any other permit required under the LDO or Town
Code, nor is it a franchise, license, or other authorization to occupy the
public right-of-way, or a license, lease, or agreement authorizing occupancy of
any other public or private property. It does not create a vested right in
occupying any particular location, and an applicant may be required to move and
remove facilities at its expense consistent with other provisions of applicable
law. An approval issued in error, based on incomplete or false information
submitted by an applicant or that conflicts with the provisions of the LDO, is
not valid. No person may maintain a small wireless facility in place unless
required state or federal authorization remain in force.
         (b)   All small wireless facilities and related equipment, including
but not limited to fences, cabinets, poles, and landscaping, shall be
maintained in good working condition over the life of the use. This shall
include keeping the structures maintained to the visual standards established
at the time of approval. The small wireless facility shall remain free from
trash, debris, litter, graffiti, and other forms of vandalism. Any damage shall
be repaired as soon as practicable, and in no instance more than thirty (30)
calendar days from the date of notification by the Town. In public rights-of-
way, damaged or deteriorated components must be corrected within five (5)
business days of notification.
         (c)   The property owner(s) or applicant shall submit a certification
letter from a North Carolina certified land surveyor or licensed engineer which
verifies that structure height complies with the approved development plan.
         (d)   The applicant or owner shall maintain onsite at the facility
contact information for all parties responsible for maintenance of the
facility.
         (e)   Small wireless facilities, whether operating alone or in
conjunction with other facilities, shall not generate radio frequency emissions
in excess of the standards established by the Federal Communications
Commission.
         (f)   After written notice to the applicant and/or owner, the Town may
require the relocation, at the applicant/owner’s expense, of any small wireless
facility, and the associated utility pole, city utility pole, or wireless
support structure on which it is collocated, located in the public right-of-
way, as necessary for maintenance or reconfiguration of the right-of- way or
for other public projects, or take any other action or combination of actions
necessary to protect the health and welfare of the Town.
         (g)   Collocation or modification of small wireless facilities on an
existing non-conforming wireless support structure or base station shall not be
construed as an expansion, enlargement, or increase in intensity of a non-
conforming structure and/or use, provided that the collocation or modification
constitute an eligible facilities request.
         (h)   Collocation of small wireless facilities shall commence within
six (6) months of approval and each small wireless facility shall be activated
for use no later than one (1) year from the date of approval. These time limits
shall be extended if delay is caused by a lack of commercial power to the small
wireless facility. The Planning Director may grant an extension of these time
limits, for good cause shown, upon receiving a request from the applicant
before the expiration of the applicable time limit. Section
3.9.2(k)(2) of the LDO shall not apply to collocation of small wireless
facilities.
      (I)   Brewery, Distillery, or Winery
         (1)   GC, MXD, HMXD, MXD, CLI, COM
            Breweries, distilleries, or wineries in the GC district, Mixed Use
District, or HMXD, MXD, CLI or COM subdistricts of the Town Center shall
include either a tasting room or restaurant, which shall be open to the public.
         (2)   Industrial District
            Breweries, distilleries, or wineries in the Industrial district
with a tasting room or restaurant are allowed only as a special use.
         (3)   Outdoor Activities Requiring a Special Use Permit
            (a)   In all districts, any brewery, distillery, or wineries
proposed to include an outside amphitheater, stage, or provision for live or
recorded acoustic or amplified entertainment outside of the building within one
hundred (100) feet of the following residential zoning districts shall be
allowed only as a special use: R80, R40, R20, R12, R8, TR, RMF, HDR Mid-Rise,
HDR Garden, MXDR, MDR, and LDR.
            (b)   The one hundred (100) foot distance shall be measured from
the center of the outdoor facility to the property line of the nearest
residential zoning district specified above.
            (c)   Outdoor seating is allowed without a special use permit.
         (4)   Outside Storage
            In all districts, storage of materials, products for distribution,
and other items requiring long-term storage shall be allowed in areas behind
the building, within service alleys, or otherwise screened from view of the
public right-of-way or pedestrian way.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05;
Ord. No. 06-005, adopted 3-23-06; eff. 3-23-06; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06); Ord.
No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-
08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-02, 1-28-10; Ord. No.
2010-LDO-03, 2-25-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-
11-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-05, 12-15-11; Ord. No.
12-LDO-01, 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-03, 5-10-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-
12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No.
2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-06, 11-21-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-
9-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No.
2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01,
7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord.
No. 2017-ACT-02, 12-14-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-03,
11-15-18; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-04, 12-13-18; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord.
No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01,
6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22; Ord.
No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-16-23)
5.3   ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES
   5.3.1   Purpose
   This section authorizes the establishment of accessory uses that are
incidental and customarily subordinate to principal uses. The Town's intent in
adopting this Section is to allow a broad range of accessory uses, so long as
such uses are located on the same site as the principal use, and so long as
they comply with the performance criteria set forth in this section in order to
reduce potentially adverse impacts on surrounding properties.
   5.3.2   General Standards and Limitations
      (A)   Compliance with Ordinance Requirements
         All accessory uses and accessory structures shall conform to the
applicable requirements of this Ordinance, including the use regulations of
Chapter 5 and the dimensional standards of
Chapter 6. The provisions of this section establish additional requirements and
restrictions for particular accessory uses and structures.
      (B)   Approval of accessory uses and Structures
         Unless otherwise specified in this Section, any accessory use or
accessory structure shall be treated as a permitted use in the zoning district
in which it is located. An accessory use or structure may be approved in
conjunction with approval of the principal use or structure.
      (C)   Accessory Use Permit
         Some accessory uses in this Section require the issuance of an
Accessory Use Permit consistent with the requirements set forth in Section
3.5 of this Ordinance.
      (D)   Location of Accessory Buildings, Structures, or Vehicles
         (1)   Definition of Attached Accessory Structure
            If an accessory structure other than a garage is located closer
than five (5) feet to the principal structure, the accessory structure shall be
deemed attached to the principal structure.
         (2)   General Location Restrictions
            Accessory structures or vehicles shall meet the standards set forth
in Chapter 6 of this Ordinance, and shall not be located within any easements.
            In instances where the principal structure is allowed by zoning to
be less than five (5) feet from the rear or side property line, the minimum
required setback of the accessory structure may equal the setback of the
principal structure provided the accessory structure complies with all
applicable building code requirements.
         (3)   Additional Location Restrictions Applicable to Boats, Trailers
and Vehicles
            Storage or parking of all boats, recreational vehicles and utility
or travel trailers or other vehicles allowed by this Section shall be located
as follows:
            (a)   within a side yard (not including corner side yards) such
that they are not closer to the front of a lot or the street than the principal
structure;
            (b)   within a rear yard (not including rear yards adjacent to a
public street); or
            (c)   within a corner side yard, or rear yard that is between the
principal structure and an adjacent public street, where screened from the view
of the street by an opaque fence with a minimum height of six (6) feet, plus
additional opaque fencing (up to a height of eight (8) feet) and/or evergreen
trees sufficient to obscure the full height of the boat, recreational vehicle,
or trailer.
            Storage of such boats, vehicles or trailers shall not occur within
a front yard (defined as the yard between the façade with the front door and
the street) or within a side or rear building setback.
         (4)   Additional Location Restrictions for Accessory Dwelling Units,
Garages and Similar Structures
            (a)   Except as provided in Section (b) below, accessory dwelling
units, garages and similar accessory structures shall be located no closer to
the front of a lot than the principal structure, except where such accessory
structure is attached to the principal structure by a minimum of fifty percent
(50%) of the length of attached side of the accessory structure.
            (b)   Section (a) above shall not apply to accessory dwelling
units, garages and similar accessory structures located on lots forty thousand
(40,000) square feet or larger, provided that the accessory structure is
located a minimum of one hundred (100) feet from the front property line.
            This section (4) shall not apply to carports or other structures
which are open on three (3) or more sides.
      (E)   Size of Residential Accessory Buildings and Structures
         (1)   For structures accessory to residential uses, the combined floor
area of all detached accessory structures shall occupy no more than thirty-
three (33) percent of the total heated floor area of the principal structure,
unless otherwise allowed in this Ordinance.
            This requirement shall not apply to roofed structures without walls
(such as carports) provided such structures are not located within the minimum
required setbacks for the principal structure on the lot.
            For lots forty thousand (40,000) square feet or greater in area:
            a)   The combined floor area of all detached accessory structures
shall not exceed five percent (5%) of the total lot area.
            b)   No single detached structure shall exceed seventy percent
(70%) of the total heated floor area of the principal structure, excluding
accessory structures for agricultural purposes (e.g. barn).
            c)   All detached accessory structures that exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the total heated floor area of the principal structure shall meet the
minimum required setbacks for the principal structure, regardless of their
location on the lot in relation to the principal structure.
            This Section 5.3.2(E)(1) shall not apply to accessory dwelling
units.
      (F)   Signs
         All signs shall be governed by the standards set forth in
Chapter 9.
      (G)   Temporary Accessory Uses and Structures
         Temporary accessory uses and structures shall be governed by the
standards and temporary use permit procedures set forth in Sections
3.7 and
5.4 of this Ordinance.
   5.3.3   Accessory Uses Prohibited
      (A)   Prohibited in All Zoning Districts
         The following activities shall not be regarded as accessory to a
principal use on any site and are prohibited in all zoning districts:
         (1)   Use of Travel Trailer, Recreational Vehicle, or Tent as
Residence
            The use of a travel trailer, recreational vehicle, or tent as a
residence, permanent or temporary is prohibited, with the exception of a
trailer approved as a temporary use for security under Section
5.4. However, a recreational vehicle (RV) may be used as a temporary residence
for up to two (2) weeks, provided the vehicle is located in the driveway or a
side or rear yard, such that the RV is no closer to the front or corner side of
a lot than the principal structure. Utilization of an RV as a temporary
residence is not considered as "storage" as described in Section
5.3.2.
         (2)   Use of Motor Vehicle or Trailer for Sales, Service, Storage, or
Other Business
            The use of any motor vehicle, or trailer or shipping container, as
a structure in which, out of which, or from which any goods are sold or stored,
any services performed, or other businesses conducted. However, this subsection
shall not prohibit the following:
            (a)   The retail sale of agricultural products, as allowed by
Section
5.4.6(D) of this Ordinance; or
            (b)   Use of a motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container in
connection with an approved recycling operation; or
            (c)   Use of a trailer or shipping container in conjunction with
construction authorized by a valid building permit; or
            (d)   Use of a trailer or shipping container for the temporary
loading and unloading of goods not intended for retail sale, provided that no
individual trailer or container is in place longer than forty-eight (48) hours;
or
            (e)   The operation of a food truck as allowed by Section
5.3.4(P) of this Ordinance.
      (B)   Prohibited in Residential Zoning Districts
         The following activities shall not be regarded as accessory to a
residential principal use and are prohibited in residential districts:
         (1)   Automotive Repair
            Automotive repair, including engine, body, or other repair or
repainting of more than one (1) vehicle at any one (1) time; as well as
automotive repair of any vehicle not owned by a person residing at that
address, regardless of whether compensation was paid for the service.
         (2)   Parking of Business Vehicles
            The storage or parking of a vehicle or trailer, for a period of one
(1) or more nights, if the vehicle or trailer is licensed or regularly used for
business purposes, and is either:
            (a)   A vehicle for which a commercial driver's license is required
by state law; or
            (b)   A vehicle or trailer having in excess of two (2) axles; or
            (c)   Any trailer bearing commercial signage, logo, or carrying
commercial or industrial equipment or materials; or
            (d)   A vehicle or trailer having a height in excess of ninety (90)
inches, which is stored or parked in any yard.
   5.3.4   Accessory Uses and Structures Allowed
      (A)   Accessory Dwelling Units
         An accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted as an accessory use
subject to the following standards:
         (1)   Districts Allowed
            Accessory dwelling units, including temporary health care
structures as provided in G.S. 160D-915, shall be allowed as accessory uses to
principal detached dwelling units as depicted in
Table 5.1-1 as well as in planned development districts, unless explicitly
prohibited; and in the TC district, as allowed by Section 4.2.2(N).
         (2)   Where Permitted on Lot
            A permitted accessory dwelling unit shall comply with all
applicable site and building design, access, and other standards for principal
detached dwelling units in the zoning district in which the accessory dwelling
unit will be located; except that such structures, not including temporary
health care structures, shall only be required to meet the setback requirements
for accessory structures. Temporary health care structures shall comply with
all setback requirements that apply to the primary structure.
         (3)   Size of Accessory Dwelling Unit
            (a)   The heated floor area of accessory dwelling units shall not
exceed the lessor of (i) fifty (50) percent of the heated floor area of the
principal detached dwelling, or (ii) eight hundred (800) square feet (if the
total lot is less than forty thousand (40,000) square feet in size) or one
thousand (1,000) square feet (if the total lot is forty thousand (40,000)
square feet or greater), except as provided in subsection (b).
            (b)   The heated floor area of accessory dwelling units that result
from the conversion of an existing level or floor within the principal detached
dwelling (e.g. basement, attic, or second story) with no new heated square
footage added, shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the heated floor area of
the principal dwelling as it existed prior to the conversion.
         (4)   Limit on Number
            There shall be no more than one (1) accessory dwelling unit on a
lot.
         (5)   Off-Street Parking
            At least one (1) off-street parking space shall be provided for an
accessory dwelling unit.
         (6)   Home Occupations
            Home occupations shall be prohibited within an accessory dwelling
unit.
         (7)   Height
            In the R-12, R-8, and TR zoning districts, and for any PDD approved
after June 2, 2025, detached accessory dwelling units shall be no taller than
the principal dwelling. For all other zoning districts, accessory dwelling
units shall not exceed the maximum height for structures for that zoning
district.
         (8)   Access
            Units that are within or attached to the principal detached
dwelling unit shall have a separate exterior entrance, or an entrance to an
internal common area accessible to the outside.
      (B)   [Reserved]
      (C)   Home Occupations
         A home occupation shall be permitted as accessory to a principal
dwelling unit in accordance with the following:
         (1)   General Requirements
         The following standards apply to all home occupation uses:
            (a)   Employees and Residency
               (i)   The principal person or persons providing the business or
service resides in the dwelling on the premises.
               (ii)   The home occupation employs no more than one (1) person
who does not reside on the premises.
            (b)   Neighborhood Compatibility
               (i)   The home occupation causes no change in the external
appearance of the existing buildings and structures on the property.
               (ii)   There shall be no commercial vehicles, and no more than
two (2) noncommercial vehicles associated with the home occupation.
               (iii)   There is sufficient off-street parking for patrons of
the home occupation, with the number of off-street parking spaces required for
the home occupation to be provided and maintained in addition to the space or
spaces required for the dwelling itself pursuant to Section
7.8 of this Ordinance.
               (iv)   No additional parking areas other than driveways shall be
located in the required front setback.
               (v)   [Reserved]
               (vi)   The property contains no outdoor display or storage of
goods or services that are associated with the home occupation.
               (vii)   Wholesale or retail sales of goods do not occur on the
premises.
               (viii)   The home occupation does not create traffic or parking
congestion, noise, vibration, odor, glare, fumes, or electrical or
communications interference which can be detected by the normal senses off the
premises, including visual or audible interference with radio or television
reception.
            (c)   Compliance Regulations for Food Preparation
               Prior to receiving an Accessory Use Permit for businesses
associated with food preparation or catering, the applicant must show proof of
compliance with all County environmental and health regulations and NC State
Building Code regulations.
         (2)   Size and Area
            (a)   Type I Home Occupation
               A Type I home occupation involves administrative support for the
rendering of a service off-site in exchange for monetary fees or other
remuneration, and complies with all of the following:
               (i)   no customers or clients visit the home;
               (ii)   no employees living outside the home are physically
employed at the residence;
               (iii)   no delivery of goods or materials to the home is
required in connection with the business; and
               (iv)   no material goods or products are produced, stored, or
manufactured at the residence.
               A Type I home occupation may occupy up to twenty (20) percent of
the heated floor area of the residence, or five hundred (500) square feet,
whichever is less.
            (b)   Type II Home Occupation
               A Type II home occupation involves the rendering of service on-
site, or administrative or other support for the rendering of a service off-
site in exchange for monetary fees or other remuneration in a manner that
complies with the general requirements specified in Section
5.3.4(C)(1), but does not qualify as a Type I Home Occupation.
               A Type II home occupation may occupy up to ten (10) percent of
the heated floor area of the residence, or five hundred (500) square feet,
whichever is less.
         (3)   Applicability of Accessory Use Permit
            Approval of an accessory use permit shall be required for all Type
II home occupation uses.
         (4)   Applicability to Small and Large Day Care Homes
            Requirements of this Section
5.3.4(O) do not apply to Large and Small Day Care Homes, which are regulated by
Sections
5.3.4(L) and
5.3.4(M), respectively.
      (D)   Outdoor Display and Sales
         Outdoor display and/or sale may be allowed as an accessory use for all
uses requiring development plan approval. It is the intent of this Ordinance to
allow the display of merchandise for sale by the merchant of the principal use,
but not where the display of such items impedes the flow of pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, or creates an unsafe condition. This shall not include
hazardous and flammable materials, such as gasoline, oil, antifreeze, kerosene,
poisons, pesticides and similar items. The display of goods shall meet all of
the following requirements:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7705.jpg]
Outdoor Display and Sales
         (1)   Procedural Requirements
            Outdoor display and/or sale shall require approval of the Planning
Director. All new development plans must show the location of such areas in
accordance with this section. Existing non-residential uses must submit a
sketch showing the location of the outdoor display or sales areas and how the
requirements of this section are to be met. Approval may be subject to
appropriate conditions by the Planning Director.
         (2)   Where Permitted
            (a)   All outdoor display and/or sale of goods shall be located
immediately adjacent to the storefront and not in drive aisles, loading zones,
fire lanes, or parking lots, except as otherwise allowed or required in this
Section
5.3.4(D)(2).
            (b)   The area in front of a store that may be used for outdoor
display and/or sales shall be limited to no more than one-half (1/2) of the
length of the front of the building. In the case of a shopping center, the
"front of the building" shall include the entire frontage of the shopping
center, meaning that the total amount of display for all the in-line tenants
combined shall not exceed fifty (50) percent of the aggregate building frontage
of the overall shopping center. If the store is located in a building that is
one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet or larger in size and meets a
minimum setback of three hundred (300) feet from a thoroughfare, then the area
on one (1) side of the building may be used for outdoor display and/or sales,
as long as the area is limited to no more than three-quarters (3/4) of that
side of the building.
            (c)   The area of outdoor display and/or sales shall not encompass
the width of the entrance doors to the facility as projected straight out from
the facility. For example, if the width of the entrance doors is ten (10) feet,
then there shall be at least a ten (10) foot clearance from the doors as
projected straight out and away from the facility.
            (d)   Where adjacent to and accessible from an on-site parking
area, at least five (5) feet along the parking lot side of the display shall be
maintained free of obstruction to allow for pedestrian and handicap movement,
such that handicapped pedestrians and others do not have to enter the parking
lot or drive aisle to walk around the display.
            (e)   No goods shall be attached to a building's wall surface.
            (f)   The height of the outdoor display shall not exceed six (6)
feet, unless an exception to this provision has been granted by the Planning
Director.
            (g)   Where adjacent to and accessible from an on-site parking
area, the outdoor display and/or sales area shall take place on an improved
surface such as the sidewalk or pavement. Either the outdoor display and/or
sales area, or the required area of pedestrian/handicap movement, must be
clearly marked by a contrasting paint color or a unique surface treatment
(e.g., use of different materials, scored surface, etc.).
            (h)   Retail sales or display of goods, products, or services from
a motor vehicle, trailer, or shipping container is prohibited, unless
explicitly allowed in this Section
5.3.4(D)(2).
            (i)   Where the principal use is located within a general shopping
center (as defined in LDO
Chapter 12), or Mixed Use Overlay District, sale of bulk horticultural or
agricultural products such as plants, mulch and pinestraw may occur in parking
lots from March 15 through June 15 of each year, subject to all of the
following:
               (i)   such display and/or sales may occur from a maximum of two
(2) vehicles, trailers, or shipping containers; and
               (ii)   such display and/or sales may occur outside of drive
aisles within a designated area in the parking lot not to exceed two thousand
(2,000) square feet provided that: any parking spaces located within the
designated area are in addition to the minimum number of parking spaces
required for the principal use; such designated area is delineated by barrier
at least three (3) feet in height, with a single entrance; such designated area
is set back at least five (5) feet from any adjacent drive aisle; and access to
such designated area is located so as to minimize the need to cross drive
aisles;
               (iii)   such designated areas, vehicles, trailers or containers
will not interfere with the movement of emergency vehicles to such an extent
that adequate police, fire, or other emergency services will be impeded and
will not likely cause unreasonable or unwarranted disruption to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic; and
               (iv)   such designated areas, vehicles, trailers or containers
shall be located in a manner that minimizes visibility from public streets.
            (j)   Within the area inside the outer perimeter of the Town Center
District, including all subdistricts and conditional use districts, outdoor
display and sales area may not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of the floor
area of the principal use, subject to the following:
               (i)   all of or a portion of the allowable outdoor display and/
or sales area may be located in the side and/or rear yards if enclosed within a
minimum forty- two (42)-inch-high decorative fence attached to the building;
and
               (ii)    up to forty percent (40%) of the allowable outdoor
display and/or sales area may be located between the front of the building and
the street right-of-way.
         (3)   Temporary Sales Events Distinguished
            Temporary sales events not meeting all requirements of this Section
5.3.4(D) may be allowed as a special event with approval of a temporary use
permit in accordance with Section
5.4.7.
      (E)   Outdoor Storage as an Accessory Use
         Outdoor storage may be allowed as an accessory use for all uses
requiring development plan approval. The storage area shall meet all of the
following requirements:
         (1)   Each outdoor storage area shall be incorporated into the overall
design of the primary structure on the site and shall be located at the rear of
the primary structure.
         (2)   Goods stored in an approved outdoor storage area shall be
limited to those sold on the premises as part of an associated, additional
primary use.
         (3)   Each outdoor storage area shall be screened from view from all
property lines and adjacent rights-of-way by an opaque fence or wall between
six (6) and eight (8) feet in height that incorporates at least one (1) of the
predominant materials and one (1) of the predominant colors used in the primary
structure. The fence may exceed eight (8) feet in height where the difference
in grade between the right-of-way and the outdoor storage area makes a taller
fence necessary to effectively screen the area. Materials may not be stored
higher than the height of the primary structure. The perimeter of the fence or
wall must be landscaped with a seven (7)-foot wide strip containing a minimum
of one (1) tree for every one hundred fifty (150) square feet of lot area.
         (4)   A landscaped earth berm may be used instead of or in combination
with a required fence or wall.
         (5)   If the outdoor storage area is covered, then the covering shall
include at least one (1) of the predominant exposed roofing colors on the
primary structure.
         (6)   Flammable liquids or gases in excess of one thousand (1,000)
gallons shall be stored underground.
         (7)   No materials may be stored in areas intended for vehicular or
pedestrian circulation.
         (8)   If installed, exterior lighting shall meet the functional needs
of the facility without adversely affecting adjacent properties or the
neighborhood.
      (F)   Satellite Dish Antenna
         (1)   Purpose
            These regulations are adopted in order to:
            (a)   Comply with applicable state and federal law, including the
federal Telecommunications Act of 1996;
            (b)   Control the location and screening of satellite dish antennae
to lessen any impact on surrounding properties; and
            (c)   Preserve the Town's image and character.
         (2)   Small Satellite Dish Antennae
            Satellite dish antennae of one (1) meter (or thirty-nine (39)
inches) or less in diameter are permitted accessory uses in all residential and
non-residential zoning districts. Such dishes shall not be located within the
public right-of-way.
         (3)   Large Satellite Dish Antennae
            (a)   Non-Residential Zoning Districts
               Satellite dish antennae measuring one meter (or 39 inches) or
more are permitted accessory uses in non-residential zoning districts.
            (b)   Residential Zoning Districts
               Satellite dish antennae measuring one meter or more are
permitted accessory uses in the residential zoning districts. Such dishes are
subject to the requirements set forth below to the maximum extent feasible, but
only where there is no impairment of acceptable signal quality. These
regulations are not intended to impose unreasonable delays or impose
unreasonable costs on the installation, maintenance, or use of satellite
dishes, and shall not be interpreted or enforced in any manner contrary to
federal or state law.
               1.   Location
                  Satellite dishes shall be located to the rear of the
principal building, but not within ten feet of any side or rear property line
or in any required buffer.
               2.   Screening
                  Satellite dishes shall be screened so that no more than 40
percent of the area of the satellite dish antenna is visible from any public
street or private street open to the public. The screen may consist of, but is
not limited to, fences, buildings, plantings, or any other opaque vegetation or
structure permanently affixed to the real property. Screens of vegetation may
be installed to meet this requirement.
      (G)   Vehicular Gate
         (1)   Purpose and Intent
            The regulations of this section are intended to clarify existing
Town prohibitions on vehicular gates in residential districts and to specify
the conditions under which vehicular gates used for security purposes may be
installed in other districts.
         (2)   Public Streets
            No vehicular gate shall be allowed on any public street, nor on
private streets in residential districts, nor in any residential development.
         (3)   Public Vehicular Areas
            Vehicular gates may be allowed on public vehicular areas only as
set forth in this section. "Public vehicular areas" include areas for driving,
parking, and loading or unloading of vehicles.
            (a)   Residential Districts
               No vehicular gate shall be allowed in any residential district.
            (b)   Non-Residential Districts
               1.   Vehicular gates may be permitted in non-residential
districts, provided they are not in residential use, at entrances and exits of:
                  a.   Parking lots to regulate or control parking where the
parking lot is a principal use of the property;
                  b.   Mini-storage areas, to control access to the mini-
storage containers only; and
                  c.   Outdoor equipment storage areas, provided in all cases
it is only the equipment storage area that is enclosed by the vehicular gate,
and no building access is affected by the vehicular gate.
               2.   Vehicular gates may be permitted in non-residential
districts at the entrances and exists of other uses not listed above provided
the following standards are met:
                  a.   The primary purpose of the gate is to provide safety and
security for the area located beyond the gate by regulating access of motor
vehicles to that area; and
                  b.   The vehicular security gate shall be staffed 24 hours a
day so that police and all emergency vehicles will be allowed immediate access
without delay, unless all emergency service providers find that such staffing
is not necessary; and
                  c.   The vehicular security gate is maintained in good
operating condition.
      (H)   Recycling Drop-Off Stations
         Recycling drop-off stations shall be permitted as accessory uses in
conjunction with any use which does not receive refuse collection from the Town
of Cary. Section 10-37 of the Code of Ordinances states that the Town will not
provide refuse collection services for any building with more than six (6)
units in a residential, office, business or industrial zone or permitted use in
an overlay zone, nor will the Town provide refuse collection services for any
use or building which exceeds the maximum stated volume of refuse (four 32
gallon containers picked up twice a week). Recycling drop-off stations shall
comply with the following standards:
         (1)   All drop-off containers and storage bins, with the exception of
roll-out carts located in townhouse and multi-family developments and recycling
containers located on school sites, shall be screened from view to at least
fifty (50) percent of the height of the containers and bins in the station. The
screen may be fencing or plantings. If plantings are used, the plants must
reach the height indicated in the previous sentence within three (3) years of
planting. Roll-out carts shall be a neutral or earth tone color, not be visible
from a public street, and be located within the interior of the development;
         (2)   The station shall be kept free of litter, debris, and residue;
         (3)   Each station shall be allowed one ground identification sign no
more than sixty (60) inches high and seventeen (17) square feet in area,
apportioned between all the sides of the sign. The sign shall include the name
and telephone number of a party responsible for management and maintenance of
the station shall be clearly posted at the station;
         (4)   Drop-off containers and storage bins shall be located no closer
than fifty (50) feet to a lot occupied by a dwelling;
         (5)   Excluding screening, drop-off containers and storage bins shall
occupy no more than five hundred (500) square feet in total;
         (6)   The station shall not occupy or block access to parking spaces
or aisles which
Chapter 12 of this Ordinance requires for the principal use;
         (7)   The station shall not involve the unattended parking of a
trailer;
         (8)   All drop-off containers and storage bins shall be durable,
waterproof, rustproof, covered, and secure from unauthorized entry, and shall
be clearly marked to indicate the type of material to be deposited therein;
      (I)   Swimming Pools, Hot Tubs and Spas
         (1)   Enclosure Required for Swimming Pools, Hot Tubs, and Spas
            (a)   General Requirement
               In order to protect unattended children from the risk of
drowning:
               1.   All below-ground outdoor swimming pools, hot tubs, or spas
having a depth of eighteen (18) inches or greater at the deepest point shall be
completely surrounded by a fence or wall with a height of no less than four (4)
feet. The fence or wall may be made of any suitable and durable material. The
fence or wall shall be designed so that a four (4) and one-half (1/2) diameter
sphere cannot pass through any opening. The principal or accessory building may
be used as part of such enclosure.
               2.   All above-ground swimming pools shall maintain gates at
access points into the pool.
               3.   All gates required by this section shall have self-closing
and self-latching devices that keep the gate or door closed at all times when
not in actual use. However, the door of any dwelling that furnishes part of the
enclosure need not be so equipped.
            (b)   Exemption
               A portable spa or hot tub with a safety cover that complies with
ASTM ES13 entitled "Emergency Standard Performance Specifications for Safety
Covers and Labeling Requirements for All Covers for Swimming Pools, Spas, and
Hot Tubs," 1989 edition, is exempt from the requirements of this section.
         (2)   Such uses shall be required to meet the setback provisions for
accessory structures indicated in Table
6.3-1.
         (3)   Above-ground mechanical and utility equipment associated with
swimming pools, hot tubs, or spas requires screening. Mechanical and utility
equipment internally encapsulated within the swimming pool, hot tub, or spa
shall not require screening.
            (a)   Screening materials must immediately surround all vertical
sides of the equipment and may include walls, fencing and other appropriate
materials so long as one hundred (100) percent opacity is achieved at the time
of installation.
            (b)   Screening materials shall exceed the height of the equipment
and shall not interfere with the operation of the equipment.
            (c)   Inclusive of screening materials, associated above-ground
mechanical and utility equipment shall be required to meet the setback
provisions for accessory structures indicated in
Table 6.3-1.
      (J)   Animal Husbandry
         For the purpose of this section the definitions of "chicken,"
"domestic fowl" and "livestock" from
Chapter 6 of the Town of Cary Code of Ordinances shall apply.
         (1)   Residential-80 and Residential-40 Zoning Districts
            The keeping of livestock and domestic fowl shall be allowed as an
accessory use in the R-40 and R-80 zoning districts with no permit required,
provided all of the following conditions are met:
            (a)   Such animals may not be kept for the express purpose of
commercial sale;
            (b)   Cows, bulls, horses, mules, ponies, burros, llamas or other
hoofed mammals are limited in quantity per acre in accordance with North
Carolina Department of Agriculture guidelines;
            (c)   Stables for the keeping of hoofed mammals may not be erected
closer than three hundred (300) feet to any residence on an adjacent property;
            (d)   The keeping of swine is prohibited; and
            (e)   The keeping of roosters is prohibited on lots smaller than
five (5.0) acres.
         (2)   Other Zoning Districts
            The keeping of chickens shall be permitted as an accessory use in
conjunction with detached, single-unit residential uses in the R-20, R-12, R-8,
TR, TC-MDR, TC-LDR, TC-LDR-12, PDD and MXD districts where the minimum lot size
is six thousand (6,000) square feet. Such use shall only occur in accordance
with the following:
            (a)   Accessory Use Permit Required
               An accessory use permit must be secured in accordance with
Section
3.5. The permit application must include a plot plan that shows the location
and dimensions of the chicken coop and chicken pen, and their distance from the
property lines.
            (b)   Number and Type of Chickens Allowed
               The maximum number of female chickens (hens) allowed is five (5)
per lot. No roosters are permitted.
            (c)   Personal Use Only
               Eggs, chicks, adult chickens, and processed chickens shall not
be sold. Chicken manure and compost using chicken manure shall not be sold or
otherwise distributed.
            (d)   Chickens Enclosed
               A chicken coop and pen shall be provided, and such coops and
enclosures may not include residential structures or garages. Chickens shall be
secured in the chicken coop during non-daylight hours. During daylight hours,
chickens may be located in the chicken pen.
            (e)   Location of Coops, Pens and Tractors
               Chicken coops, pens, and tractors (whether stationary or
moveable) shall only be located in rear yards (behind the line formed by the
back wall of the residence), shall comply with a minimum setback of fifteen
(15) feet from side and rear property lines, shall be located closer to the
owner's primary structure than any neighbor's primary structure, and shall be
outside of regulated urban transition buffers. The cumulative area limitations
for accessory structures contained in Section
5.3.2(E) are not applicable unless a building permit is required for such an
accessory structure.
            (f)   Coop and Pen Construction and Design
               The chicken coop, tractor, and/or pen shall be properly designed
and constructed to provide adequate security from rodents, wild birds, and
predators; sufficient ventilation; and suitable shelter for the hens.
            (g)   Chicken Coop and Pen Management
               (i)   Maintenance.
                  The permittee shall ensure that chickens shall have adequate
access to feed, clean water, and bedding at all times. The chicken coop,
chicken pen, and surrounding area shall be cleaned of hen droppings, uneaten
feed, feathers and other waste, and shall be kept in a neat and sanitary
condition at all times to preclude odors and aesthetic nuisances. Chicken feed
shall be stored in a secure container.
               (ii)   Manure and Compost.
                  Chicken manure shall be bagged and disposed of with household
waste or composted on-site. All stored manure shall be completely contained in
a waterproof container. Any compost using chicken manure shall be produced in
an enclosed backyard composter and such activity shall comply with the Town
Code of Ordinances.
               (iii)   Slaughter or Disposal of Dead Chickens.
                  On-site slaughter shall be prohibited in accordance with the
Town Code of Ordinances.
                  Dead chickens. If a chicken dies from causes other than
slaughter, it shall be promptly placed into a plastic bag, which shall be
closed securely and disposed of with household waste.
      (K)   Yard Parking on Single-Unit and Duplex Residential Lots
         (1)   Vehicular parking area shall not exceed either of the following:
            (a)   Forty (40) percent of any streetyard; or
            (b)   Three hundred and thirty (330) square feet plus:
               i)   an area equal to the linear depth of the front yard
multiplied by fifteen (15) feet; or
               ii)   a circular or semi-circular driveway, not to exceed a
width of fifteen (15) feet, with no more than two (2) access points on the
street; or
               iii)   a combination of i) and ii) above.
         (2)   Vehicular parking area shall be located in clearly delineated
space(s) on an improved surface such as concrete, asphalt, gravel or other non-
eroding material, with the following exception:
            (a)   Up to two (2) vehicles may be parked on an unimproved surface
on lots recorded and developed prior to January 14, 2010, provided that said
parking is parallel to the driveway.
 
PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION
Section
5.3.4(K) is not intended to apply to parking for a short duration, such as for
deliveries, visitors, and infrequent social events.
 
      (L)   Day Care Homes, Large
         (1)   A large day care home is intended for the care of seven (7) to
twelve (12) children at any given time. Large day care home uses may be
permitted as a special use in any single-unit residential dwelling on a lot
which is twelve thousand (12,000) square feet or greater in size provided that
all the following provisions are met:
            (a)   Appropriate licensing by the North Carolina Department of
Health and Human Services, Division of Child Development is maintained;
            (b)   The home shall be reviewed and approved as a special use in
accordance with the procedures and standards set forth in Section
3.8 of this Ordinance;
            (c)   No building modifications may be made to the structure to
accommodate the use except those required by the Building Code;
            (d)   The home shall comply with or exceed the parking standards in
Table 7.8-1 and the number and location of parking spaces shall be adequate to
provide for child drop-off and pick-up in a safe manner;
            (e)   If construction of additional parking area or driveway width
is needed in order to meet minimum parking requirements, then such areas shall
be clearly delineated, and shall be screened to a minimum height of three (3)
feet from the view of adjacent residential properties. Such screening may be
provided by evergreen plantings that will attain a minimum height of three (3)
feet within three (3) years of planting, or by the use of a fence made of wood
(or a comparable composite material) that is at least three (3) feet in height
and is designed to screen at least three-quarters (3/4) of the view through the
fence from adjacent properties. Screening shall not be required for parking
areas located in the portion of a one (1)- or two (2)-car wide driveway between
the street and the front of the residence or located adjacent to non-
residential property.
            (f)   A sketch of the site shall be provided showing the residence,
driveway and parking areas, outdoor play area, fencing, residences located on
adjoining lots;
            (g)   The principal person or persons operating the day care home
must reside on the premises;
            (h)   The day care home shall employ no more than one (1) person
who does not reside on the premises; and
            (i)   The operator obtains all required permits and licenses from
the Town of Cary.
         (2)   Day care homes that are licensed by the State of North Carolina
and authorized by the Town of Cary to care for up to eight (8) children as of
January 28, 2010 shall be deemed conforming and may continue to operate as
approved without a Special Use Permit as long as a valid license from the North
Carolina Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Child Development
is maintained and the use does not cease operation for more than one hundred
eighty (180) consecutive days.
      (M)   Day Care Homes, Small
         (1)   A small day care home is intended for the care of up to six (6)
children not related to the care provider by birth, marriage, or adoption at
any given time. Adult care is limited to three (3) adults eighteen (18) years
old or older. Small day care home uses shall be permitted as an accessory use
in a residential dwelling unit provided that all the following provisions are
met:
            (a)   Appropriate licensing by the North Carolina Department of
Health and Human Services, Division of Child Development is maintained;
            (b)   The home shall comply with the parking standards in Table
7.8-1. No less than three (3) on-site parking spaces shall be provided, and the
number and location of parking spaces shall be adequate to provide for child
drop-off and pick-up in a safe manner;
            (c)   If construction of additional parking area or driveway width
is needed in order to meet minimum parking requirements, then such parking
areas shall be clearly delineated, and shall be screened to a minimum height of
three (3) feet from the view of adjacent residential properties. Such screening
may be provided by evergreen plantings that will attain a minimum height of
three (3) feet within three (3) years of planting, or by the use of a fence
made of wood (or a comparable composite material) that is at least three (3)
feet in height and is designed to screen at least three-quarters (3/4) of the
view through the fence from adjacent properties. Screening shall not be
required for parking areas located in the portion of a one (1)- or two (2)-car
wide driveway between the street and the front of the residence or located
adjacent to non-residential property.
            (d)   The principal person or persons operating the day care home
must reside on the premises;
            (e)   The day care home shall employ no more than one (1) person
who does not reside on the premises; and
            (f)   The operator obtains all required permits from the Town of
Cary.
      (N)   Caretaker's Residence
         A caretaker's residence may be allowed as a permitted accessory use
provided the following standards are met:
         (1)   The residence shall be occupied by a bona fide caretaker or
watchman employed by the principal on the property and shall be accessory to
the principal use;
         (2)   The principal use of the property shall be a kennel, animal
hospital, mini-storage facility, light or heavy manufacturing establishment,
warehousing and distribution establishment, wholesale establishment, research
laboratory, or prototype processing and production plant;
         (3)   There shall be no more than one (1) caretaker's residence on the
property; and
         (4)   The living quarters shall be limited to one (1) floor and
constructed so that the exterior of the premises provides a development style
uniform with the main structure.
      (O)   Beekeeping
         (1)   General Requirements
            (a)   The maximum number of hives allowed shall be five hives on a
single parcel.
            (b)   No hive shall be established or kept within ten (10) feet of
a property line.
            (c)   Hives shall be placed at ground level or securely attached to
an anchor or stand.
            (d)   A constant and adequate on-site source of fresh water shall
be provided, and shall be located closer to the hive than any water source on
adjacent property.
            (e)   An accessory use permit must be secured in accordance with
Section
3.5. The permit application must include a plot plan that indicates the number
of beehives, shows the location of each beehive and water source(s), and their
respective distances from property lines.
            (f)   In the event that a nuisance is not abated in accordance with
Town Code Section
6-71a (Nuisance Bees) and no final appeal is made, then the Planning Director
may revoke the owner's Accessory Use Permit, and the owner shall be unable to
reapply for another Accessory Use Permit for Beekeeping for a period of twelve
(12) months. The owner may appeal revocation of the Accessory Use Permit to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to Section
3.21 of the Land Development Ordinance.
         (2)    Additional Requirements for Community Gardens
            Beekeeping shall also be permitted as an accessory use in
conjunction with a community garden. Such use shall only occur in accordance
with the requirements identified in Section 5.3.4(O)(1) and the following
additional requirements:
            (a)   The property owner(s) signs the accessory use permit
application granting permission for beekeeping to occur on the property.
            (b)   A beekeeper(s) that is a registered member of a local or
state beekeeping association and has documented training in beekeeping, also
signs the application and certifies that he/she will be responsible for the
ongoing maintenance and overall care of the hive(s).
      (P)   Food Trucks 
         The purpose of these regulations is to promote the general health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the town by establishing reasonable
regulations and review procedures to allow for the retail sale of food and food
products via mobile food vending vehicles, commonly called "food trucks." The
intent of these provisions is to establish rules related to the location and
operation of food trucks on private and public property within the town, while
considering their potential effects on public streets, public properties,
nearby residential properties, and other food service establishments. These
provisions are not intended to apply to peddlers and solicitors who are
otherwise regulated under
Chapter 20, Licenses and Business Regulations, of the Cary Town Code.
         (1)   Developed Sites in Non-Residential Zoning Districts, Mixed Use
Overlay Districts and Non-Residential Portions of Planned Development
Districts, and HMXD, MXD, COM, OFC/INS and OFC/IND Sub-districts of the Town
Center District
            (a)   Permits Required
               1.   An accessory use permit per Section 3.5 shall be obtained
by the property owner for any lot proposed to accommodate one (1) or more food
truck businesses. A copy of the accessory use permit shall be kept in the food
truck.
               2.   The accessory use permit application shall include a list
of potential food truck businesses expected to operate on the lot, and a copy
of the following for each business:
                  a.   NC Sales and Use Certificate for collecting and paying
the proper sales taxes and prepared meals taxes; and
                  b.   Wake County Environmental Services Vending Permit and a
means for the disposal of grease within an approved grease disposal facility.
                  Said certificate and permit shall be clearly displayed on the
food truck.
               3.   The accessory use permit shall be valid for up to one (1)
calendar year and may be amended during the period of validity to remove or add
specific food truck business(es) authorized to operate on the lot.
               4.   The Accessory Use Permit shall designate the specific
locations on a given site where a food truck may operate.
            (b)   Locational Standards
               Food trucks shall be located on developed lots in accordance
with the following standards:
               1.   Food trucks must be located in an area that is not actively
used by an existing, approved principal use on a developed lot.
               2.   Food trucks may not encroach upon open space, landscaping,
fire lanes, vehicular access ways or pedestrian walkways, and shall not
obstruct or disturb existing buffers or required setbacks from buffers or
streetscapes,
               3.   Food trucks shall be located a minimum of one hundred (100)
feet from the main entrance of any eating establishment or similar food service
business, any outdoor dining area, and any other food truck location, as
measured in a straight line. This one hundred (100) foot separation requirement
shall not apply to a food truck located on the same lot as an eating
establishment or similar food service business, outdoor dining area, or other
food truck, so long as all other requirements of this Ordinance are met. No
more than three (3) food trucks may be located on single lot.
               4.   Food trucks may not be located within one hundred fifty
(150) feet of a lot with a dwelling unit as measured in a straight line from
the location of the food truck to the nearest property boundary.
               5.   In the event that one (1) or more permanent restaurant or
other food service establishments or residences locate within the minimum
separation requirement after an accessory use permit for a food truck location
has been issued, the food truck may continue to operate under the terms of its
Accessory Use Permit until said permit expires.
               6.   Food trucks shall be located a minimum of five (5) feet
from any fire hydrant, sidewalk, utility box, handicap ramp and building
entrance.
               7.   Food trucks may not occupy parking spaces required to
fulfill the minimum requirements of the principal use, unless the hours of
operation of the principal use do not coincide with those of the food truck.
            (c)   General Operational Standards
               1.   Food trucks may only operate between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
to midnight.
               2.   Food trucks must be removed from all permitted locations
during the hours when they are not permitted to be in operation, and may not be
stored, parked, or left overnight on any public street or sidewalk.
               3.   One sandwich board sign shall be allowed.
               4.   Amplified music is not permitted.
               5.   Outdoor seating areas for dining associated with a food
truck, including but not limited to tables, chairs, booths, bar stools,
benches, and standup counters, are not permitted.
            (d)   Health and Sanitation Standards
               1.   All food preparation, storage, and sales or distribution by
a food truck operator shall be in compliance with all applicable County, State
and Federal Health Department sanitary regulations. In accordance with such
laws, the food truck shall return daily to a commissary for proper servicing.
               2.   The operator shall keep all areas within five (5) feet of
the food truck and any associated customer or dining area clean of grease,
trash, paper, cups or cans associated with the food truck.
               3.   Each food truck operator is responsible for the proper
disposal of solid waste associated with the operation of the food truck and any
outdoor dining areas. Public trash receptacles are not to be used for this
purpose.
               4.   Operators shall remove all waste and trash prior to leaving
their approved location or as needed to maintain the health and safety of the
public.
               5.   No waste or grease may be disposed in storm drains, the
sanitary sewer system or onto the sidewalks, streets, or other public spaces.
               6.   If at any time evidence of the improper disposal of liquid
waste or grease is discovered, the food truck operator shall be required to
cease operation immediately. The owner of the food truck business shall be
liable for the violation.
         (2)   Other Zoning Districts
            In all zoning districts other than those listed in Section
5.3.4(P)(1) above, food trucks may be allowed only on commonly-owned property
within a residential development serving residents and guests at a neighborhood
activity or function. Requirements of Section
5.3.4(P)(1) shall apply.
         (3)   Public Property
            Food trucks may not be operated on public property such as parks or
plazas, parking lots, public street rights-of-way, or public sidewalks except
as specifically authorized by the Town and as part of an official public event
sponsored or co-sponsored by the Town of Cary.
         (4)   Component of Temporary Event
            In accordance with Sec.
5.4, Temporary Uses and Structures, food trucks may be placed on private
property in conjunction with a public or private event. If food trucks are
included as part of the event, the temporary use permit for the event itself,
if required in
Table 5.4-1, shall also identify the inclusion of food trucks and shall serve
as the accessory use permit for the site for the duration of the event. Such
food trucks shall only be operated during the hours of the event, which time
does not include the time before and after the event where the operator is
preparing to set up or remove the food truck.
         (5)   Construction Sites
            In all zoning districts, food trucks may be allowed on construction
sites in accordance with the following:
            (a)   The site is undergoing construction in accordance with an
approved and valid development plan and building permit.
            (b)   Such trucks may vend to person(s) lawfully authorized to be
on the construction site, and not to the general public.
            (c)   Food trucks shall be parked in an appropriate location based
on the location of active construction activity, as authorized by the general
contractor consistent with safe construction site management practices.
            (d)   A copy of the following shall be clearly displayed on each
food truck:
               1.   NC Sales and Use Certificate for collecting and paying the
proper sales taxes and prepared meals taxes; and
               2.   Wake County Environmental Services Vending Permit and a
means for the disposal of grease within an approved grease disposal facility.
            (e)   General operational standards specified in Section
5.3.4(P)(1)(c) shall apply.
            (f)   Health and sanitation standards specified in Section
5.3.4(P)(1)(d) shall apply.
      (Q)   Cluster Box Unit - Mailbox
         (1)   The local post manager will work with builders and developers to
determine the best mode for mail delivery for the area, prior to extending or
establishing delivery service. If central mail delivery service is the option
chosen by the postal manager in the form of Cluster Box Units (CBU), then the
arrangement and location of the CBU(s) shall be in accordance with the Town's
Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
         (2)   Parking for Cluster Box Units shall be provided as required in
Table 7.8-2.
         (3)   Evergreen shrubs shall be provided in the vicinity of each CBU
to promote high quality appearance and good design. The number, location and
height of such landscape material shall be appropriate to the specific
location, based on available planting area, topography, and safety
considerations, as determined by the Planning Director or designee. The maximum
height of any such shrubs located in the public right-of-way or within a sight
triangle shall not exceed thirty (30) inches.
      (R)   Electronic Gaming Machines
         Four (4) or fewer electronic gaming machines shall be permitted as an
accessory use to any legal conforming principal use other than an Electronic
Gaming Operation.
      (S)   Photovoltaic Systems
         (1)   Photovoltaic systems are permitted accessory uses in all
residential and non-residential zoning districts.
         (2)   Photovoltaic systems will not be included in the measurement of
building height.
         (3)   Components of a photovoltaic system that are not mounted on the
roof shall be located to the rear of the principal building. No component of a
photovoltaic system shall be located within five (5) feet of any property line
or in any required buffer.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-003, 4-15-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04;
Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01,
1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-02, 1-28-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No.
2011-LDO-02, 4-14-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 12-LDO-01, 2-23-
12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord. No. 2012-
LDO-07, 8-23-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13;
Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2015-
LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-8-
16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-02, 3-30-17; Ord. No.
2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-01, 1-13-
22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2025-CODE-01, 4-10-25; Ord. No.
2025-CODE-02, 5-22-25)
5.4   TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
   5.4.1   Purpose
   This section allows for the establishment of certain temporary uses of
limited duration, provided that such uses do not negatively affect adjacent
properties or Town facilities, and provided that such uses are discontinued
upon the expiration of a set time period. Temporary uses do not involve the
construction or alteration or any permanent building or structure.
   5.4.2   Table of Allowed Temporary Uses and Structures
   Table
5.4-1 summarizes the temporary uses and structures that are allowed within the
Town and any general or specific regulations that apply. Temporary uses or
structures not listed in Table
5.4-1 are not allowed under this Ordinance.
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_5.4-1
TABLE 5.4-1: TABLE OF ALLOWED TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
Temporary Activity Maximum Allowable Time Frame Specific Regulations
TABLE 5.4-1: TABLE OF ALLOWED TEMPORARY USES AND STRUCTURES
Temporary Activity          Maximum Allowable Time Specific Regulations
                            Frame
TEMPORARY STRUCTURES
Expansion or Replacement of
Existing Facilities
(including temporary                               Temporary Use Permit
offices for construction    (A)                    Required; see Section
and/or security personnel)                         5.4.6(A)
not to include temporary
classroom facilities for
schools
                                                   No Temporary Use Permit
Temporary Classroom         N/A                    Required; Development Plan
Trailers                                           Required; see Section
                                                   5.2.2(C)
                                                   Temporary Use Permit
                                                   Required; see Section
                                                   5.4.4 and
                                                   5.4.5; Applicant shall
Portable Medical Equipment  (F)                    coordinate with all
                                                   necessary Town Departments
                                                   (e.g., Police and Fire), and
                                                   comply with any conditions
                                                   required by those
                                                   departments
Real Estate Sales Office/                          Temporary Use Permit
Model Sales Home            (A)                    Required; see Section
                                                   5.4.6(B)
TEMPORARY SALES
Sale/Display of Goods and                          Temporary Use Permit
Products                    (B)                    Required; see Section
                                                   5.4.6(C)
Garage and/or Yard Sales    (E)                    Temporary Use Permit Not
                                                   Required
Temporary Not-For-Profit    (E)                    Temporary Use Permit Not
Car Wash                                           Required
EVENTS
                                                   Temporary Use Permit
                                                   Required; No fee required;
Town-Recognized Event       N/A                    Includes only those events
                                                   listed in the Town Clerk's
                                                   Office
                                                   Temporary Use Permit
                                                   Required; see Section
                                                   5.4.4; Applicant shall
Not-For-Profit Event with                          coordinate with all
100 People or More in       (D)                    necessary Town Departments
Attendance                                         (e.g., Police and Fire), and
                                                   comply with any conditions
                                                   required by those
                                                   departments
                                                   Temporary Use Permit
                                                   Required; see Section
                                                   5.4.4; Applicant shall
Special Event with 100                             coordinate with all
People or More in           (D)                    necessary Town Departments
Attendance                                         (e.g., Police and Fire), and
                                                   comply with any conditions
                                                   required by those
                                                   departments
Athletic Event at a Sports  N/A                    Temporary Use Permit Not
Facility                                           Required
Block Parties               (D)                    Temporary Use Permit Not
                                                   Required
Other Public Events with 99                        Temporary Use Permit Not
People or Fewer in          (E)                    Required
Attendance
Private Event               N/A                    Temporary Use Permit Not
                                                   Required
(A)                         Such structures may be in place for no more than
                            one (1) to three (3) years.
                            Such sales are limited to a maximum of ninety (90)
(B)                         days per calendar year with no more than three (3)
                            occurrences per lot or parcel per year.
(C)                         [Reserved]
(D)                         Such events are limited to seven (7) total days per
                            calendar year.
                            Such events are limited to two (2) events per
(E)                         calendar year per lot or parcel and/or no more than
                            four (4) total days per calendar year.
                            Such portable equipment shall be limited to one (1)
                            twenty-four (24) hour period per week for no more
(F)                         than one (1) calendar year. Depending on individual
                            circumstances and for good cause shown, either time
                            period may be increased or altered.
 
   5.4.3   [Reserved]
   5.4.4   Temporary Use Permits
   All temporary uses and structures that are required to obtain a temporary
use permit by Table
5.4-1 shall obtain such permit pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section
3.7 of this Ordinance. A temporary use permit shall be reviewed, approved, or
revoked only in accordance with the regulations of Section
3.7 of this Ordinance. Temporary uses must meet the requirements of the North
Carolina State Building Code.
   5.4.5   General Requirements for All Temporary Uses and Structures
   All temporary uses or structures shall meet the following general
requirements, unless otherwise specified in this Ordinance:
      (A)   The temporary use complies with all applicable general and specific
regulations of this section and Section
3.7, unless otherwise expressly stated, and with all requirements of this
Ordinance and applicable Town specifications.
      (B)   Permanent alterations to the site are prohibited.
      (C)   Signage shall comply with applicable provisions of
Chapter 9.
      (D)   The temporary use or structure will not violate any applicable
conditions of approval that applies to a principal use on the site.
      (E)   If the property is undeveloped, it contains sufficient land area to
allow the temporary use or structure to occur, as well as any parking and
traffic movement that may be associated with the temporary use, without
disturbing protected resources, including required buffers.
      (F)   If the property is developed, the temporary use must be located in
an area that is not actively used by an existing approved principal use, and
which would support the proposed temporary use without encroaching or
disturbing existing buffers or required setbacks from buffers or streetscapes,
open space, landscaping, traffic movements, pedestrian circulation, or parking
space availability.
      (G)   Tents and other temporary structures will be located so as to not
interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use located on the
property.
      (H)   Off-street parking is provided in accordance with the requirements
set forth in Section
7.8 of this ordinance.
      (I)   All inspections and permits required by applicable construction
codes have been made and approved by the Inspections and Permits Department.
      (J)   Applications for temporary structures to be located in or near the
one percent (1%) annual chance floodplain will be required to submit a plan to
the Stormwater Manager for the removal of such structure(s) in the event of a
hurricane or flash flood notification. The plan must include the following
information:
         (1)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structures.
         (2)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed;
         (3)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a
trucking company to insure availability of removal equipment when needed; and
         (4)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the floodplain to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   5.4.6   Specific Regulations for Certain Temporary Uses and Structures
      (A)   Expansion or Replacement of Existing Facilities
         (1)   Purpose and Scope
            Factory-fabricated, transportable buildings that are designed to
arrive at the site ready for occupancy, except for minor unpacking and
connection to utilities, and designed for removal to and installation at other
sites, may be placed on a property to serve as the following:
            (a)   Expansion space for existing churches, health care
facilities, and government offices, provided that plans for the permanent
expansion of the existing facilities have been submitted to and approved by the
Town.
            (b)   Temporary offices for construction and security personnel
during the construction of a development for which the Town has issued a
grading permit or building permit pursuant to
Chapter 5 of this Ordinance.
            (c)   Temporary quarters for recreational facilities that are being
provided in conjunction with a new residential development, provided that the
Town has approved a development plan for the development.
            (d)   Temporary quarters for a non-residential use when the
permanent building has been destroyed by a fire or other physical catastrophe,
provided that a building permit for the permanent facility is obtained within
ninety (90) days after approval of the temporary quarters. The Planning
Director may approve a written request for an extension of an additional ninety
(90) days for good cause shown. Failure to obtain a building permit within the
time frame allowed will revoke approval for the temporary quarters.
            (e)   One (1) temporary office per site to include, but not be
limited to, the following uses: hiring, membership solicitation, apartment
office/leasing, and other general office uses provided that the Town has
approved a development plan for the development. The number of modular
buildings housing such uses shall be limited to one (1), in addition to those
already allowed by this section. Such modular buildings shall not be placed on
the property prior to the issuance of a building permit.
         (2)   Standards and Requirements for Approval
            In addition to meeting the general standards of Section
5.4.5, all temporary structures approved pursuant to this section shall meet
the following standards and requirements:
            (a)   Location
               Temporary structures allowed under Section
5.4.6(A) may be located anywhere on site, except within the following areas:
               1.   Existing vegetated buffers or within the buffer setbacks.
               2.   Areas designated for future vegetated buffers whether or
not vegetation currently exists.
               3.   Other areas designated on the development plan for open
space, vehicular use, or ingress/egress.
            (b)   Other Requirements
               1.   The temporary structure shall be factory-fabricated and
transportable.
               2.   Underskirting shall be installed around all temporary
structures requiring development plan approval.
               3.   In addition to any other off-street parking required on the
site, off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements
set forth in Section
7.8 of this Ordinance.
               4.   All permits required by applicable building, electrical,
plumbing, and mechanical codes shall be obtained from the Inspections and
Permits Department prior to installation of the temporary structure.
               5.   For those temporary structures requiring development plan
approval, the temporary structure shall be compatible with the existing
buildings on the site in terms of exterior color.
               6.   Foundation plantings installed in accordance with Section
7.2.9(B) of this Ordinance shall be required for temporary structures intended
for use as temporary recreation facilities.
               7.   A sketch plan containing sufficient information to show
compliance with the above standards shall be submitted to and approved by the
Planning Department prior to installation of the temporary structure.
         (3)   Duration
            Temporary structures under this section may remain on the site for
no more than twelve (12) months. This period may be renewed for two (2) twelve
(12)-month periods, for good cause shown, upon approval of a written request,
submitted to the Planning Director thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of
the permit. In no event, however, shall such extensions allow the temporary
structure to remain on the site for more than three (3) years.
      (B)   Real Estate Sales Office and Model Sales Home
         (1)   General Requirements
            One (1) temporary real estate sales office or model sales home may
be allowed as incidental to a new residential or non-residential development
provided that:
            (a)   The use is located on a single-unit residential lot or within
a multi-family development that was approved by the Town as part of a
residential development, or within a non-residential area of an approved
planned unit development.
            (b)   Reserved.
            (c)   The temporary use is aesthetically compatible with the
character of the community and the surrounding development in terms of exterior
color, predominant exterior building materials, and landscaping.
            (d)   The temporary use complies with the minimum yard and setback
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
            (e)   Parking spaces shall be provided on the lot in a number
sufficient to meet the requirements set forth for offices in Section
7.8 of this Ordinance. Such parking spaces may be located on an adjacent vacant
residential lot within the development.
            (f)   For single-unit residential developments, at least three
hundred (300) square feet of evergreen plantings shall be provided around the
base of the temporary use; one (1) upper-story tree shall be provided per forty
(40) feet of street frontage of the lot on which the structure is located; and
one (1) ornamental tree shall be provided per twenty (20) feet of street
frontage, pursuant to the general landscaping requirements of
Chapter 7.
            (g)   A development plan containing sufficient information to show
compliance with the above standards shall be submitted to and approved by the
Planning Department prior to installation of the sales office.
            (h)   The temporary use shall connect to both Town utilities if
they are within four hundred fifty (450) linear feet to the property.
            (i)   If the utilities are not within four hundred fifty (450)
linear feet, private water and/or septic systems may be allowed by the Director
of Water Resources.
            (j)   Upon termination of the temporary real estate sales office or
model sales home, the structure will be converted into, or removed and replaced
with, a permanent residential use.
         (2)   Duration
            (a)   Temporary Real Estate Sales Offices
               Temporary real estate sales offices may be approved for a period
of up to one (1) year. This period may be renewed for two (2) additional twelve
(12)-month periods, but not exceeding a total of three (3) years, for good
cause shown, upon approval of a written request for such an extension by the
Planning Director, filed thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date of the
existing approval. All temporary trailers shall be removed from the site prior
to the issuance of the last certificate of occupancy for the site.
            (b)   Model Sales Homes
               Model sales homes may be approved for a period of up to three
(3) years. This period may be renewed for additional six (6)-month periods, for
good cause shown, upon approval of a written request for such an extension by
the planning director. There is no time limit on the use of model units for
rental housing.
            (c)   Associated Parking Area
               Associated parking area shall be removed within sixty (60) days
of termination of use of the temporary real estate office or conversion of a
model sales home to a permanent residential use.
      (C)   Sale/Display of Goods Other Than Agricultural Products
         (1)   Applicability
            Merchants may display and/or sell goods in the Town on a temporary
basis without establishing a permanent place of business, subject to the
standards and requirements set forth in this section. Receipt of Peddler's
Permit from the Police Department does not exempt a merchant from the need to
obtain a temporary use permit for such sales.
         (2)   Location
            (a)   The outdoor display and/or sale of goods consistent with the
provisions in Section
5.3.4(D) is considered as an accessory use and does not need to obtain a
temporary use permit.
            (b)   The proposed display and/or sale of goods, products and/or
services for commercial purposes may not occur within two hundred (200) feet of
an occupied residential dwelling unit.
            (c)   Commercial Sales
               A temporary display or sale of goods for commercial purposes
shall take place on a developed site where the principal use is retail sales,
or on an immediately adjacent developed out-parcel of such a site.
            (d)   Non-Commercial Sales
               A temporary sale of goods for public or institutional purposes
may take place on a developed site where the principal use is retail sales, or
on an immediately adjacent developed out-parcel of such a site. Upon approval
of the Planning Director, such sales may take place on public property,
including: public parks owned or maintained by the Town, public street rights-
of-way, any other property owned by the Town, a special district, or other
political subdivision of the State of North Carolina.
         (3)   Similar Products, Goods, and Services
            A temporary display or sale of products, goods and/or services for
commercial purposes shall be limited in scope to similar or complimentary
products, goods, and/or services to those offered by the existing principal use
located upon the same site. The temporary sale of non-agricultural products,
goods, and/or services that differ from the normal range of those offered by an
existing principal use shall be prohibited.
         (4)   Submittal Requirements
            The operator of the temporary sale of products, goods and/or
services shall provide the Planning Department with the following:
            (a)   Written permission from the property owner.
            (b)   A sketch plan showing:
               1.   The location of any tent or temporary structure to be used.
               2.   The location of pedestrian, vehicular, and emergency
ingress and egress over the entire property, including pedestrian access to
streets, driveways, and parking areas, and obstructions of vehicular rights-of-
way.
               3.   The location and number of available off-street parking
spaces to serve the temporary sale of goods.
               4.   [RESERVED]
               5.   Electrical power connections, if applicable.
         (5)   Hours of Operation
            The hours of operation of the temporary sale of products shall be
from no earlier than 7:30 am to no later than 10:00 pm, or the same as the
hours of operation of the principal use, whichever is more restrictive.
         (6)   Duration; Sales per Year
            (a)   The temporary sale of non-agricultural products shall be
allowed on an individual parcel or site for no more than ninety (90) total days
per calendar year.
            (b)   The number of temporary sales of products per site per
calendar year shall not exceed three (3). For the purposes of this section,
"site" shall mean the entire parcel, including out-parcels, whether it is a
single tenant, multi-tenant, or shopping center use.
         (7)   Requirements
            The Planning Director shall issue a temporary use permit for the
temporary display and/or sale of products if the proposed use satisfies the
following requirements:
            (a)   The property contains an area that is not actively used which
would support the proposed temporary sale of products without encroaching into
or or disturbing existing buffers, open space, landscaping, or traffic
movements.
            (b)   Tents and other temporary structures will be located so as
not to interfere with the normal operations of any permanent use located on the
property.
            (c)   All tents and other temporary structures shall match the
predominant color of the principle structure on the premises or be of a neutral
or earth tone color.
            (d)   The temporary use will not occupy any existing parking
required for the principal use.
            (e)   The temporary sale of products will not likely cause
interference with the movement of emergency vehicles to such an extent that
adequate police, fire, or other emergency services will be impeded and will not
likely cause unreasonable or unwarranted disruption to vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
            (f)   All inspections and permits required by applicable
construction codes have been made and approved by the Planning Department.
      (D)   Sale of Agricultural Products Grown Off-Site
         (1)   Agricultural Products Defined
            For the purposes of this section, agricultural products are defined
as products obtained primarily through farming or agricultural activities,
including, but not necessarily limited to: pumpkins; grains and seed crops;
fruits of all kinds; vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental, and greenhouse
products; trees and forest products, including Christmas trees, firewood, and
pinestraw; bees and beekeeping products; seafood; and dairy products. For the
purposes of this section, processed or prepared food products of any kind shall
not be considered as agricultural products.
         (2)   Approval Criteria
            (a)   The temporary sale of agricultural products grown off-site
may be allowed subject to issuance of a temporary use permit pursuant to
Chapter 5 of this Ordinance. Temporary sales of agricultural products shall
meet all requirements for temporary sale of non-agricultural goods set forth in
Section
5.4.5(C) above; however, the temporary sale of agricultural products for
commercial purposes may occur from a vacant lot, a lot containing a detached
dwelling provided that such residential lot contains at least three (3) acres
and has a minimum of 250 feet of road frontage on a major thoroughfare, or a
developed site where the principal use is non-residential.
            (b)   The temporary sale of agricultural products grown off-site is
exempt from the requirement for similar products, goods, or services to those
offered by an existing principal use as required under the provisions for the
temporary sale of non-agricultural products.
            (c)   The temporary sale of agricultural products grown off-site
may be accomplished from a vehicle, trailer, or shipping container, provided
such vehicle, trailer, or container is located in accordance with the
provisions of Section
5.4.6(C) of this Ordinance.
            (d)   The temporary sale of agricultural products grown off-site
shall be allowed on an individual parcel or site for no more than one hundred
eighty (180) total days per calendar year.
            (e)   The number of temporary sales of agricultural products per
site per calendar year shall not exceed three (3).
      (E)   Sale of Fireworks
         (1)   Approval Criteria
            The temporary sale of fireworks may be allowed subject to issuance
of a temporary use permit pursuant to
Chapter 3 of this Ordinance. Temporary sales of fireworks or other pyrotechnics
shall meet all requirements for temporary sale of non-agricultural goods set
forth in Section
5.4.6(C) above; however, the temporary sale of fireworks or pyrotechnics are
exempt from the similar product provisions which apply to the sale of other
non- agricultural products.
      (F)   Temporary Structures In or Near the Flood Hazard Area
         Prior to the issuance of any development permits for a temporary
structure in the Flood Hazard Area, all applicants must submit to the
Stormwater Manager, for review and written approval, a plan for the removal of
such structure(s) in the event of a hurricane or flash flood notification. The
plan shall include the following information:
         (1)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structures.
         (2)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed;
         (3)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with a
trucking company to insure availability of removal equipment when needed; and
         (4)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the floodplain to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   5.4.7   Events
      (A)   Purpose and Intent
         The purpose for this section is to establish permit requirements,
allowable time frames, and submittal requirements for four (4) recognized types
of events.
         These provisions are intended to address potential significant
negative impacts to public or private properties from events or event-related
activities, not to prevent such activities from occurring or to unduly restrict
private events.
      (B)   Types of Events
         (1)   Town-Recognized Event
            A Town-recognized event is one that is in part or wholly sponsored
by the Town, recognized by the Town, or proclaimed as a Town-recognized event
by the Town Council. Such events shall include only those events listed on the
Town-recognized event List as maintained by the Town Clerk. The Town-recognized
event List may be amended as needed by the Town Council.
         (2)   Not-For-Profit Event
            A not-for-profit event is any event that is requested by, or held
for, a recognized non-profit organization or other charitable organization,
with at least fifty-one (51) percent of the revenue derived from the event
intended for a not- for-profit entity or for its programs.
         (3)   Special Event
            Special events are any organized event, specifically including, but
not limited to: a temporary sales event accessory to a principal use, or a
circus, carnival, cultural event, fair, celebration, communal camping, ground-
breaking, grand opening, religious service, musical or other show, which
reasonably may be expected to attract one hundred (100) or more persons, but
which do not meet the criteria of a Town-recognized event or a not-for-profit
event.
         (4)   Private Event
            Private events are any organized event which is not open to members
of the general public, typically has a duration of less than twelve (12) hours,
and which is not expected to have significant negative impacts on surrounding
properties. Examples of such events include, but are not limited to wedding
ceremonies, funerals, private parties or other similar gatherings.
      (C)   Permit Required
         (1)   No special event or not-for-profit event, as specified above
shall be permitted unless a temporary use permit has first been obtained in
accordance with this section and the procedures of Section
3.7, unless otherwise specified in this section.
         (2)   Any application to hold a special event or not-for-profit event
shall be made in advance of the event.
         (3)   A permit to hold a special event or not-for-profit event issued
to one (1) person or organization shall permit any person to engage in any
lawful activity in connection with the holding of the permitted assembly.
      (D)   No Permit Required
         (1)   The following types of events do not need to obtain temporary
use permits, but may be subject to the maximum allowable time frames, and
specific regulations as listed in Table
5.4-1 above:
            (a)   Athletic events held at approved sports facilities.
            (b)   Temporary not-for-profit car washes held on developed sites.
            (c)   Garage and/or yard sales.
            (d)   Block parties occurring entirely upon the grounds of a
private residence or common area of a multi-family residential development.
            (e)   Other events with ninety-nine (99) people or fewer in
attendance.
            (f)   Private events.
         (2)   Events that occur or take place entirely within the boundaries
of a parcel or parcels that possess development plan approval for such
activities (e.g., assembly halls, convention centers, amphitheaters, or event
centers).
         (3)   Events taking place on county-owned park property.
      (E)   Term of Approval/Permit
         Table
5.4-1 lists the maximum allowable time frame for all allowable events. The
Planning Director may extend the consecutive-day limit or the annual limit upon
approval of a written request for such an extension, for good cause shown.
      (F)   Additional Planning Requirements
         In addition to meeting the general standards of Section
5.4.5, all not-for-profit and special events shall also meet the planning
requirements set forth below. The Planning Director shall be responsible for
determining the adequacy of submitted plans.
         (1)   An adequate plan for security and safety shall be implemented on
and around the site of the event, including sufficient staffing, provision for
pedestrian safety, restroom facilities (if necessary), and traffic routing.
         (2)   An adequate plan for public health, safety, and welfare on,
around, and outside the site of the event shall be implemented, including a
showing that the event will not likely cause interference with the movement of
emergency vehicles to such an extent that adequate police, fire, or other
emergency services cannot be provided throughout the Town and will not likely
cause unreasonable or unwarranted disruption to vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      (G)   Submittal Requirements
         All applications for special and not-for-profit events shall include
such information and supporting materials as are required by the Planning
Director, including, but not necessarily limited to, the following:
         (1)   A description of the proposed event, including the event's
starting date and time, the event's ending date and time, the date and time
preparatory activities will commence, and the date and time of completed post-
event clean-up.
         (2)   The location of the property(ies) upon which the proposed event
will take place.
         (3)   A security plan, if requested.
         (4)   A parking plan.
         (5)   A Traffic Management Plan as described in Section
8.1.1.
         (6)   Evidence of the non-profit status of an applicant or event
beneficiary if not-for-profit event status is being requested, as well as a
signed affidavit from the event sponsor indicating that at least fifty-one (51)
percent of the revenue generated by the event is intended for a recognized 501
(c)(3) or 426(c)(3) organization.
         (7)   A statement as to whether the applicant has requested the Town
Manager to apply the provisions of
Chapter 6, Article II of the Code of Ordinances during the event. If the
applicant desires to have the provisions of
Chapter 6, Article II apply, the applicant shall also provide evidence that all
reasonable attempts will be made to notify the public that animals will not be
permitted within the boundaries of the event. Public notification shall include
notice in all advertisements and the posting of notices on the property
immediately before and during the event. All such notices shall state that
animals are prohibited and shall refer to
Chapter 6, Article II of the Cary Code of Ordinances.
         (8)   A statement as to whether the applicant has requested the Town
Manager to apply the provisions of Section
24-18(e) of the Code of Ordinances during the event prohibiting the sale, use,
and possession of fireworks type items that might otherwise be permitted
pursuant to G.S. 14-414 ("non-exploding fireworks"). If the applicant desires
to have the provisions of Section
24-18(e) apply, the applicant shall also provide evidence that all reasonable
attempts will be made by the applicant to notify the public that non-exploding
fireworks will not be permitted within the boundaries of the event. Public
notification shall include notice in all advertisements and the posting of
notices on the property immediately before and during the event. All such
notices shall state that all pyrotechnics and fireworks including non-exploding
fireworks like smoke bombs, sparklers, and party poppers are prohibited and
shall refer to Section
24-18(e) of the Cary Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07;
Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-
01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-02, 4-14-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord.
No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01,
7-25-16; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-8-16; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord.
No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02,
4-28-22)
Chapter 6:   DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND MEASUREMENTS
6.1   TABLES OF DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
   
6.1.1   Residential Districts (not including TC District)
   (A) Table of Density and Dimensional Standards
   (B) Additional Regulations
   
6.1.2   Non-Residential Districts (not including TC District and CT District)
   
6.1.3   Town Center District
   (A) Table of Density and Dimensional Standards
   (B) Additional Regulations
   
6.1.4   Corridor Transition District
6.2   LOT MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
   
6.2.1   Definitions/Measurements
   (A) Lot Area
   (B) Lot Width
   (C) Lot Depth
   
6.2.2   General Lot Requirements
   (A) Minimum Lot Dimensions
   (B) Number of Principal Buildings or Uses Per Lot
   (C) Distance From Existing Telecommunications Facilities Towers
6.3   SETBACK MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
   
6.3.1   Definition/Measurement
   (A) Setback Line
   (B) Setback, Roadway
   (C) Setback, Rear
   (D) Setback, Side
   (E) Setback, Front
   (F) Setback Measurement, Cul-de-Sac
   (G) General Guidelines for Determining Residential Setbacks
   (H) Guidelines for Determining Residential Setbacks within Planned
Developments
   
6.3.2   Setback Requirements
   (A) General Requirements
   (B) [Reserved]
   (C) Setbacks from Required Buffers and Streetscapes
   (D) Features Allowed within Required Setbacks or Yards
   
6.3.3   Clear Sight Triangles
   
6.3.4   Exemptions
6.4   HEIGHT MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
   
6.4.1   Definition/Measurement
   (A) Building Height
   (B) Exceptions
   
6.4.2   General Height Regulations
   (A) General Increases to Maximum Height Requirement
   (B) Telecommunications Facilities
6.5   BULK MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
   
6.5.1   Measurements
   (A) Density, Gross
   (B) Density, Net
   (C) Floor Area
   (D) Building Footprint
6.1   TABLES OF DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60719.jpg]New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 6.1 has been added by Ord. 2023-LDO-03, approved 6/
22/2023, effective 6/22/2023.
All primary and accessory structures shall be subject to the density and
dimensional standards set forth in the following tables. These standards may be
further limited or modified by other applicable sections of this Ordinance.
Rules of measurements and exceptions are set forth in Sections
6.2 through
6.5.
   6.1.1   Residential Districts (not including TC District)
      (A)   Table of Density and Dimensional Standards
         Density and dimensional standards for the residential districts are
set forth in the following table. These standards may be further limited or
modified by other applicable sections of this Ordinance (e.g., streetscape
buffer requirements), or by actual site conditions (e.g., presence of roads on
side or rear lot lines). Additional regulations, referenced in brackets, are
set forth immediately following the table in Section B.
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_6.1-1
TABLE 6.1-1: TABLE OF DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (Not Including TC District)
                           Minimum Building
                           Setbacks (Ft)
                           (NOTE: These setbacks
    Minimum Lot Dimensions are minimums;
                           streetscape and buffer Height (Ft)
                           width standards may    (NOTE: Height
                           require greater        may be
                           setbacks.)             increased one  Max Gross
Use                        Roadway                foot for every Density (du/
                           (NOTE: these           foot provided  acre)
                           set backs              in addition to
    Area                   apply to any           the min.
    (Sq Ft) Width (Ft)     portion of a Side Rear setbacks)
                           lot which
                           abuts a
                           street)
TABLE 6.1-1: TABLE OF DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (Not Including TC District)
                              Minimum Building Setbacks
                              (Ft)
             Minimum Lot      (NOTE: These setbacks are
             Dimensions       minimums; streetscape and     Height
                              buffer width standards may    (Ft)
                              require greater setbacks.)    (NOTE:
                                                            Height
                                                            may be
                                                            increased
                              Roadway                       one foot  Max Gross
Use                           (NOTE: these                  for every Density
                              set backs                     foot      (du/acre)
             Area    Width    apply to any                  provided
             (Sq Ft) (Ft)     portion of a  Side       Rear in
                              lot which                     addition
                              abuts a                       to the
                              street)                       min.
                                                            setbacks)



R-80: Residential District
                              From
                     175 (185 thoroughfare:
With septic          for      50 From
tank/well    80,000  corner   collector     20         30   35        0.54
                     lot)     avenue : 30
                              From other
                              streets: 20
                              From
                     150 (160 thoroughfare:
With public          for      50 From
sewer        80,000  corner   collector     15         30   35        0.54
                     lot)     avenue : 30
                              From other
                              streets: 20
R-40: Residential District
                              From
                     150 (160 thoroughfare:
With septic          for      50 From
tank/well    40,000  corner   collector     20         30   35        1.08
                     lot)     avenue : 30
                              From other
                              streets: 20
                              From
                     125 (135 thoroughfare:
With public          for      50 From
sewer        40,000  corner   collector     15         30   35        1.08
                     lot)     avenue : 30
                              From other
                              streets: 20
R-20: Residential District
                              From
                     90 (100  thoroughfare:
All uses and         for      50 From
structures   20,000  corner   collector     10         25   35        2.17
                     lot)     avenue : 30
                              From other
                              streets: 20
R-12: Residential District
                              From
                     80 (90   thoroughfare:
All uses and         for      50 From
structures   12,000  corner   collector     10         25   35        3.63
                     lot)     avenue : 30
                              From other
                              streets: 20
R-8: Residential District
                              From
                     60 (70   thoroughfare: 5'
All uses and         for      50 From       minimum,
structures   8,000   corner   collector     20         20   35        5.44
                     lot)     avenue : 30   combined
                              From other
                              streets: 20
TR: Transitional Residential District
                              From
                              thoroughfare:
Detached             40 per   50 From       0/
single-unit  5,000   dwelling collector     3 minimum, [2]  35        6
dwellings            unit     avenue : 30   6 combined
                              From other    [4]
                              streets: 10/
                              18  [1]
                                            Detached:
                                            0/
                                            3 minimum,
                              From          16
                              thoroughfare: combined.
Patio                20 per   50 From       Attached
dwellings    -       dwelling collector     or semi-   [2]  35        6
[5]                  unit     avenue : 30   attached:
                              From other    0/
                              streets: 10/  3 minimum,
                              18  [1]       16 between
                                            building
                                            groupings
                                            [4]
                              From
                              thoroughfare: 0/
                              50 From       3 minimum,
Duplexes [5] -       50       collector     16         [3]  35        6
                              avenue : 30   combined.
                              From other    [4]
                              streets: 10/
                              18  [1]
Subdivided                    From          0/
attached,                     thoroughfare: 3 minimum,
semi-                20 per   50 From       20/25
attached,    -       dwelling collector     between    [3]  35        6
and                  unit     avenue : 30   building
townhouse                     From other    groupings
developments                  streets: 7,   [4] [7]
[5]                           10 or 18  [1]
                              From
                     70 (80   thoroughfare:
All other            for      50 From
uses         -       corner   collector     10         20   35        -
                     lot)     avenue : 30
                              From other
                              streets: 20
RMF: Multi-Family Residential District
                                            Detached:
                                            0/
                                            3 minimum,
                              From          16
                              thoroughfare: combined.
Patio                         50 From       Attached
dwellings    -       20       collector     or semi-   20   35        12
[5]                           avenue: 30    attached:
                              From other    0/
                              streets: 10/  3 minimum,
                              18 [1]        16 between
                                            building
                                            groupings
                                            [4]
Subdivided                    From
attached,                     thoroughfare: 0/
semi-                         50 From       3 minimum,
attached,                     collector     20/25
duplexes,    -       20       avenue: 30    between    [3]  35        12
and                           From other    building
townhouse                     streets:  7,  groupings
developments                  10 or 18  [1] [4] [7]
[5]
                                            0/
Multi-Family                  20 feet       3 minimum,
Structures   -       -        combined      16 between [3]  35        12
[5][6]                        between front building
                              and rear      groupings
                                            [4]
                                            10, plus
                                            an
                              From          additional
                     60 (70   thoroughfare: four feet
Non-                 for      50 From       for each
residential  10,000  corner   collector     full story 20   35        -
uses                 lot)     avenue: 30    of
                              From other    building
                              streets: 20   height
                                            over 2
                                            stories
 
      (B)   Additional Regulations
         (1)   TR and RMF Districts: Roadway Setback Requirements
            Where parking is provided between the dwelling and the roadway, the
length of the driveway and front setback shall be at least eighteen (18) feet,
as measured from the public right-of-way. For townhouses and semi-detached/
attached dwellings that are part of a development plan submitted prior to May
7, 2020 and subsequently approved in accordance with G.S. 143-755, the length
of the driveway and the front setback may be measured from the inside edge of
the sidewalk, or the back of curb where no sidewalk is provided.
            When townhouses and semi-detached/attached dwellings have driveways
on alleys, the front roadway setback shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet. If
townhouses and semidetached/attached dwellings with driveways on alleys provide
street trees in coordination with on-street parallel parking at a ratio of at
least one (1) tree per two (2) spaces, then the front setback shall be a
minimum of seven (7) feet.
         (2)   TR District: Roadway and Rear Setbacks for Detached Dwellings
and Patio Homes
            On thoroughfare, collector, or other streets, the width of the
roadway and rear setbacks combined shall equal at least thirty-five (35) feet
and any individual setback shall be at least three (3) feet.
         (3)   TR and RMF Districts: Roadway Setbacks for Duplexes, Subdivided
Attached, Semi-Attached, Townhouse Units and Multi-Family Structures
            The width of the roadway or front and rear setbacks combined shall
equal at least twenty (20) feet and any individual rear setback shall be at
least three (3) feet.
         (4)   Firewall Requirements for Individual Dwelling Units
            A building setback of less than three (3) feet may be permitted
where firewalls are provided in accordance with all applicable building code
requirements and where it is permitted by the zoning district.
         (5)   Permanent Common Open Space Required
            One (1) of the following shall be provided, whichever is greater:
            (a)   Five Hundred (500) square feet per unit as required in
Section
8.3.1; or
            (b)   Twenty (20) percent of the total parcel proposed for
development, excluding dedicated right-of-way. The Planning Director may allow
this requirement to be reduced to ten (10) percent of the total parcel area
when this common space preserves significant and healthy trees located outside
of required buffers or streetscapes.
         (6)   Individual Enclosed Storage Space
            At least twenty-four (24) square feet of individual enclosed
storage space with an external entry shall be provided for each dwelling unit
in a multi-family development.
         (7)   TR and RMF Districts: Building Separation Requirements for
Townhouses and Subdivided Semi-Detached/Attached Units
            This subsection applies only to Townhouses and Semi-Detached/
Attached dwellings.
            Dwellings that have driveways on alleys shall have a minimum
building separation of twenty (20) feet. All other dwellings shall have a
minimum building separation of twenty (20) feet if there are four (4) or fewer
attached units per building, and a minimum building separation of twenty-five
(25) feet if there are five (5) attached units per building. (See Section
5.2.1.(L)(4) for additional information regarding building placement.)
            For such dwellings that are part of a development plan submitted
prior to May 7, 2020 and subsequently approved in accordance with G.S. 143-755,
more than five (5) units may be attached, and the building separation may be a
minimum of sixteen (16) feet.
   6.1.2   Non-Residential Districts (not including TC District and CT
District)
TABLE 6.1-2 TABLE OF DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
TABLE 6.1-2 TABLE OF DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Minimum Lot Size                                     None
Minimum Setback from Street Right-of-Way (feet)      30
Minimum Setback from Private Street in OI District   15
(feet)
Minimum Side Yard Setback                            None
Minimum Rear Yard Setback                            None
                        Within 100 feet of           35 feet
Maximum Building Height residential zoning district
                        More than 100 feet from      50 feet
                        residential zoning district
                        The maximum height limits set forth above may be
General Increases to    increased by one (1) foot for every additional foot
Maximum Building Height provided between the building footprint and the
                        minimum required setbacks
 
   6.1.3   Town Center District
      (A)   Table of Density and Dimensional Standards
         The density and dimensional requirements for the Town Center district
are set forth in the following table. Additional regulations, referenced in
italicized brackets, are set forth immediately following the table.
TABLE 6.1-3: TABLE OF DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
TOWN CENTER DISTRICT
                                             Building Height
                                             (ft)
                                             (Note: maximum
            Minimum Lot   Minimum Building   building heights
            Dimensions    Setbacks (ft)      may not be
                                             exceeded
                                             regardless of     Maximum
                                             setbacks)         Residential Minimum
Subdistrict               Roadway                              Density     Parking
                          (These                               (units/     Requirements
                          setbacks           Minimum           acre)
                          apply to           Building Maximum
            Area    Width any      Side Rear Height   Building
            (sq.ft) (ft)  portion            [1 story Height
                          of a lot           = 15
                          that               feet]
                          abuts a
                          street)
TABLE 6.1-3: TABLE OF DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
TOWN CENTER DISTRICT
                                                    Building Height (ft)

             Minimum Lot    Minimum Building        (Note: maximum
             Dimensions     Setbacks (ft)           building heights may
                                                    not be exceeded
                                                    regardless of
                                                    setbacks)            Maximum
                            Roadway                                      Residential Minimum
Subdistrict                 (These                                       Density     Parking
                            setbacks                Minimum              (units/     Requirements
                            apply to                Building   Maximum   acre)
             Area    Width  any      Side      Rear Height     Building
             (sq.ft) (ft)   portion                 [1 story = Height
                            of a lot                15 feet]
                            that
                            abuts a
                            street)
Expansion of
a
residential
building
constructe d
or approved
prior to 7/
1/03 in
subdistricts
that no
longer allow                         0/
such uses,           50 (55          3
or creation          for    10/18    minimum,
of a new lot 5,000   corner [2]      16        10   N/A        35        N/A         N/A
containing           lot)            combined
an existing                          [1]
residential
building
constructe d
or approved
prior to 7/
1/03 in
subdistricts
that no
longer allow
such uses.
(SEE NOTES)
HMXD:
detached                             16 total;                                       2 per
dwelling;    N/A     20     10/18    only one  10   N/A        35        8           dwelling
detached                    [2]      req'd                                           unit
multi-family
dwelling
                                                               65 south
                                                    20 for new of CSX
HMXD: all                   0                       buildings, RR, 75                1 per
other uses   N/A     N/A    [2]      N/A       N/A             west of   N/A         dwelling
                                                    0 for      N. West               unit
                                                    existing   St., 90
                                                               elsewhere
                                                                                     1 per
                                                                                     dwelling
                                                                                     unit + 0.5
                                                                                     per
MXD          N/A     N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        45        N/A         additional
                                                                                     bedroom over
                                                                                     1, + 1 per
                                                                                     300 sq. ft.
                                                                                     non-
                                                                                     residential
HDR Mid-
Rise:
Attached,                   10/18    16 total;                                       2 per
Semi-        N/A     20     [2]      only one  10   N/A        45        8           dwelling
detached,                            req'd                                           unit
Townhouse,
Patio
                                                               65 south              1 per
                                                               of CSX                dwelling
HDR Mid-                                                       RR, 75                unit + 0.5
Rise: All    100,000 N/A    0        N/A       N/A  30         west of   50          per
other uses                                                     N. West               additional
                                                               St., 90               bedroom over
                                                               elsewhere             1
MXDR: Multi-
family                                                                               1 per
dwelling     100,000 N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        90        50          dwelling
(including                                                                           unit
mid-rise)
0-1 bedroom
2 or more                                                                            2 per
bedrooms     100,000 N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        90        50          dwelling
                                                                                     unit
MXDR: All                                                                            2 per
other uses   100,000 N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        90        50          dwelling
                                                                                     unit
HDR Garden:
Multi-family                                                                         1 per
dwelling     N/A     N/A    N/A      N/A       N/A  N/A        45        25          dwelling
(including                                                                           unit
mid-rise)
0-1 bedroom
2 or more                                                                            2 per
bedrooms     N/A     N/A    N/A      N/A       N/A  N/A        45        25          dwelling
                                                                                     unit
HDR Garden:                                                                          2 per
All other    N/A     N/A    N/A      N/A       N/A  N/A        45        25          dwelling
uses                                                                                 unit
                                     0/
MDR:                                 3
Attached,                            minimum,                                        2 per
Semi-        N/A     20     10/18    16        10   N/A        45        8           dwelling
detached,                   [2]      between                                         unit
Townhouse                            building
                                     groupings
                                     [1]
                                     Detached:
                                     0/
                                     3
                                     minimum,
                                     16
                                     combined.
                                     Attached
                            10/18    or semi-                                        2 per
MDR: Patio   N/A     20     [2]      attached: 10   N/A        45        8           dwelling
                                     0/                                              unit
                                     3
                                     minimum,
                                     16
                                     between
                                     building
                                     groupings
                                     [1]
MDR: Multi-                          0/
family               40 (45          3                                               1 per
dwelling     5,000   for    10/18    minimum,  10   N/A        45        N/A         dwelling
(including           corner [2]      6                                               unit
mid-rise)            lot)            combined
0-1 bedroom                          [1]
                                     0/
                     40 (45          3                                               2 per
2 or more    5,000   for    10/18    minimum,  10   N/A        45        N/A         dwelling
bedrooms             corner [2]      6                                               unit
                     lot)            combined
                                     [1]
                                     0/
                     40 (45          3                                               2 per
MDR: All     5,000   for    10/18    minimum,  10   N/A        45        N/A         dwelling
other uses           corner [2]      6                                               unit
                     lot)            combined
                                     [1]
                                     0/
                     50 (55          3                                               2 per
LDR          8,000   for    10/18    minimum,  10   N/A        35        N/A         dwelling
                     corner [2]      16                                              unit
                     lot)            combined
                                     [1]
                                                                                     2 per
LDR-12       12,000  80     30       10        15   N/A        35        3           dwelling
                                                                                     unit
                                                                                     As per
OFC/INS      N/A     N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        90        N/A         Section
                                                                                     7.8
                                                                                     As per
OFC/IND      N/A     N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        45        N/A         Section
                                                                                     7.8
                                                                                     As per
COM          N/A     N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        45        N/A         Section
                                                                                     7.8
CLI          N/A     N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        30        N/A         1 per 300
                                                                                     sq. ft.
CB&R: Multi-                                                                         1 per
family       N/A     N/A    10       N/A       N/A  N/A        35        N/A         dwelling
dwelling                                                                             unit
0-1 bedroom
2 or more                                                                            2 per
bedrooms     N/A     N/A    10       N/A       N/A  N/A        35        N/A         dwelling
                                                                                     unit
CB&R: All                                                                            2 per
other uses   N/A     N/A    10       N/A       N/A  N/A        35        N/A         dwelling
                                                                                     unit
                                                                                     As per
INS          N/A     N/A    0        N/A       N/A  N/A        60        N/A         Section
                                                                                     7.8
NOTES:
1.   Expansions of residential buildings existing before July 1, 2003 in subdistricts that no
longer allow such uses shall be in accordance with the provisions of Sections 4.2.2(N)(6) and
10.1.8(H) of this Ordinance.
2.   When creating a new lot containing a residential building existing before July 1, 2003 in
subdistricts that no longer allow such uses, current building setback requirements must be met
except when a required setback is from a property line not being altered or modified from that
which previously existed.
 
   (B)   Additional Regulations
         (1)   Firewall Requirements for Individual Dwelling Units
            A building setback of less than three (3) feet may be permitted
where firewalls are provided in accordance with all applicable building code
standards and where it is permitted by the zoning district.
         (2)   Driveway Length
            Where parking is provided between the dwelling and the roadway, the
length of the driveway shall be at least eighteen (18) feet, as measured from
the inside edge of the sidewalk, or back of curb where no sidewalk is required.
         (3)   Overhang of Features in Public Right-of-Way
            Architectural features such as marquees and cantilevered portions
of buildings, and other features such as canopies, awnings, and projecting or
suspended signs, may encroach into the public right-of-way subject to approval
of an encroachment agreement by the Town of Cary or NCDOT, whichever is
responsible for maintenance of improvements within the right-of-way.
   6.1.4   Corridor Transition District
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_6.1-4
TABLE 6.1-4: TABLE OF DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
CORRIDOR TRANSITION DISTRICT
Walnut Street Corridor
                                          Infill Area        Infill Area
Development Conversion Area Redevelopment (1st 300 feet from (301 or more feet
Standard                    Area          Walnut Street)     from Walnut
                                                             Street)
TABLE 6.1-4: TABLE OF DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
CORRIDOR TRANSITION DISTRICT
Walnut Street Corridor
                                               Infill Area     Infill Area
Development     Conversion Area Redevelopment  (1st 300 feet   (301 or more
Standard                        Area           from Walnut     feet from Walnut
                                               Street)         Street)
Minimum Lot     None            1 Acre         -               -
Size
                                               Detached        Detached
Minimum Lot     50              50             dwellings: 40   dwellings: 40
Width (feet)                                   Townhomes: 34   Townhomes: 34
                                               Other uses: 50  Other uses: 50
Minimum Side
and Rear Yard
Setback (feet)  10              10             10              10
adjacent to
non-residential
use
Minimum Side                                   Townhomes:      Townhomes:
and Rear Yard                                  0 side; 15 rear 0 side; 15 rear
Setback (feet)  25              25             Detached        Detached
adjacent to                                    dwellings:      dwellings:
residential use                                3 side; 15 rear 3 side; 15 rear
                                               Other uses: 25  Other uses: 2525
Minimum Setback                                Townhomes and   Townhomes and
from internal   15              15             Detached        Detached
streets (feet)                                 dwellings:  18  dwellings:  18
                                               Other uses: 15  Other uses: 15
Minimum
Separation                                                     Between
(feet) between                                                 groupings of no
attached        N/A             N/A            6               more than two
residential                                                    units each: 6
building                                                       Otherwise, 16
groupings
Minimum
Streetscape     20              20             20              -
Along Walnut
Street (feet)
Minimum
Streetscape     15              15             15              15
Along Other
Streets (feet)
Minimum Buffer
Width (feet)                                   Detached        Detached
Along                                          dwellings and   dwellings and
Residential     15              40             townhomes: 20   townhomes: 20
District                                       Other uses: 40  Other uses: 25
Boundaries
(Type A Buffer)
                2,500 or size   7,500
                of existing     8,500 with 2+
Maximum         building,       acres
Individual      whichever is
Building Square larger (May be
Footage (square increased up to                7,500           7,500
feet) for Non-  5,000 square    10,000 with 5+
residential     feet with a     acres
Buildings       Special Use
                permit and
                combination of
                2 or more lots)
Maximum
Building Height 35              35             35              35
(feet)
 
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-
25-08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-02, 1-28-10; Ord. No.
12-LDO-01, 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-
14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No.
2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-04, 12-
12-19; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No.
2022-LDO-01A, 2-24-22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-
22-23)
6.2   LOT MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
   6.2.1   Definitions/Measurements
      (A)   Lot Area
         Lot area refers to the amount of horizontal land area contained inside
the lot lines of a lot or site. Public rights-of-way shall not be included in
calculating lot size, except where specifically allowed by this Ordinance.
      (B)   Lot Width
         Lot width refers to the horizontal distance between side lot lines.
Lot width shall be measured as the distance between the side lot lines as
measured at the front building line, provided that the width at the street
property line is not less than twenty (20) feet.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7709.jpg]
Lot Area, Lot Width, and Lot Depth
      (C)   Lot Depth
         The average horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line.
   6.2.2   General Lot Requirements
      (A)   Minimum Lot Dimensions
         Any lot that is created, developed, used, or occupied shall meet the
minimum lot area and lot width requirements set forth in
Table 6.1-1 for the zoning district in which it is located, except as otherwise
established in this Ordinance for particular uses. New lots shall also meet the
lot development standards set forth in Section 8.1.9(C), Lots.
      (B)   Number of Principal Buildings or Uses Per Lot
         For uses that require development plan approval pursuant to Section
3.9 of this Ordinance, there shall be no limit on the number of principal or
accessory buildings or uses on an individual lot provided such structures and
uses meet the other requirements related to setbacks, buffers and impervious
coverage limitations contained within this Ordinance. However, there shall be
no more than one (1) principal detached dwelling per lot in all residential
districts where such uses are allowed.
      (C)   Distance From Existing Telecommunications Facilities Towers
         When creating residentially zoned lots from an existing lot or parcel
that contains a telecommunications facility tower (stealth or non-stealth), the
new lot(s) shall be located no closer to the existing tower than the height of
the tower.
(Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-06, 11-21-13; Ord. No. 2014-
LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7711.jpg]
Setback Measurements
6.3   SETBACK MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
   6.3.1   Definition/Measurement
      (A)   Setback Line
         That line that is the required minimum distance from any lot line, or
pedestrian easement in the Conservation Residential Overlay District, and that
establishes the area within which the principal structure must be erected or
placed.
      (B)   Setback, Roadway
         A setback that extends across the full width of a site, the depth of
which is the distance between the front or side property line and the
furthermost allowable projection of a building or structure along a line at
right angles to the roadway or side lot line, excluding those projections set
forth in Section
6.3.2(D). On lots fronting thoroughfares and collector streets, the setback
must be measured from the ultimate right-of-way as shown on the Comprehensive
Transportation_Plan. Roadway setback requirements shall apply to the drip line
of any detached canopies on the lot, as well as to the building itself.
      (C)   Setback, Rear
         A setback that extends across the full width of a site, the depth of
which is the distance between the rear property line and the furthermost
allowable projection of a building or structure along a line at right angles to
the rear lot line, excluding those projections set forth in Section
6.3.2(D).
      (D)   Setback, Side
         A setback on that portion of a lot that is not adjacent to a private
or public street. It extends from the required roadway setback, or the front
property line of the site where no roadway setback is required, to the front
line of the required rear setback, or the rear property line where no rear
setback is required.
      (E)   Setback, Front
         A setback on that portion of the lot that extends along the full
length of the front lot line between two (2) side setbacks or a side and a
roadway setback.
      (F)   Setback Measurement, Cul-de-Sac
         A setback on that portion of a lot that extends parallel to the arc of
the street right-of-way. Rear setback for cul-de-sac lots include that portion
of a lot that extends parallel to the arc of the rear lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7717.jpg]
Cul-de-sac Setback Measurement
      (G)   General Guidelines for Determining Residential Setbacks
         The purpose of this section is to clarify the appropriate setbacks to
apply to new residential construction or redevelopment where there is
uncertainty or conflict between the following documents: development plans,
recorded plats, zoning districts, and PD documents.
         (1)   Setbacks Shown on Development Plan Only
            (a)   If setbacks are shown on the development plan only, then the
setbacks shown on the development plan will apply provided that said setbacks
are greater or equal to those required in the corresponding zoning district.
[For example, if the development plan shows a fifty (50) foot rear yard
setback, then the required setback will be fifty (50) feet even though the
corresponding zoning district may be only twenty-five (25) feet.] In such case,
however, the setbacks may be reduced to that required within the zoning
district if the homeowners' association concurs (HOA written approval will be
deemed final). Where there is no homeowners' association, the setbacks in the
zoning district will control.
            (b)   If setbacks are shown on the development plan only, and those
setbacks are less than that required in the corresponding zoning district, then
the setbacks in the zoning district will control.
         (2)   Setbacks Shown on Recorded Plat
            If setbacks are shown on the recorded plat, those setbacks shall
control. This shall apply even if the setbacks on the recorded plat are in
conflict with those shown on the plan and/or the requirements for corresponding
zoning district set forth in Section
6.1 of this Ordinance. This applies even if changes are made to this Ordinance
subsequent to plat recordation that would require greater setbacks than those
shown on the plat.
         (3)   No Setbacks Shown Anywhere
            If there are no setbacks on any documents, such as the development
plan or recorded plat, the setbacks shown for the corresponding zoning district
in Section
6.1 of this Ordinance shall apply.
      (H)   Guidelines for Determining Residential Setbacks Within Planned
Developments
         (1)   Setbacks Shown on the Development Plan Only
            If setbacks are shown on the development plan only, then such
setbacks shall control.
         (2)   Setbacks Shown on the Recorded Plat or the Master Plan for the
Planned Development
            If setbacks are shown on the master plan for the planned
development, then such setbacks shall control. However, if a plat was approved
and recorded with larger setbacks than what the master plan would allow, an
applicant must utilize the setbacks in the approved plat.
         (3)   No Setbacks Shown Anywhere
            If no setbacks are shown on any documents, then the setbacks for a
structure or portion of a structure receiving building permit approval after
January 14, 2010, shall be those applicable to the general zoning district to
which the approved use and density of a particular property most closely
conform. A structure or portion of a structure that received building permit
approval prior to January 14, 2010, shall be deemed conforming with regard to
building setbacks if documentation is provided demonstrating that the initial
construction was approved by the homeowner's association.
   6.3.2   Setback Requirements
      (A)   General Requirements
         (1)   A building, structure, or lot shall not be developed, used, or
occupied unless it meets the minimum setback requirements set forth in Section
6.1 for the zoning district in which it is located, except as otherwise
established in this Ordinance for particular uses or unless a variance has been
granted.
         (2)   A setback, court, or other open space required by this Ordinance
shall not be included as part of a setback or other open space required by this
Ordinance for another building or structure or lot.
      (B)   [Reserved]
      (C)   Setbacks from Required Buffers and Streetscapes
         Buildings, structures and parking areas shall be set back from
required perimeter, streetscape, and Urban Transition Buffers as provided
below:
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_6.3-01
Table 6.3-01 Setbacks From Required Buffers
  Perimeter Buffer and Streetscape Buffer Urban Transition Buffer
Table 6.3-01 Setbacks From Required Buffers
                                   Perimeter Buffer and Urban Transition Buffer
                                   Streetscape Buffer
Neuse River Basin: Lot Created Prior to July 22, 1997 *
Jordan Lake Protected Watershed: Lot Created Prior to July 27, 2000*
                                   10' if existing
                                   vegetation meets
                                   required buffer
                Principal Use      standards;           NA
                                   0' if new vegetation
                                   is installed to meet
                                   required buffer
Single-Unit                        standards
Residential Use                    5' if existing
                                   vegetation meets
                                   required buffer
                Accessory Use or   standards;           NA
                Vehicular Use Area 0' if new vegetation
                                   is installed to meet
                                   required buffer
                                   standards
                                   10' if existing      10' for new development
                                   vegetation meets     or expansion of
                                   required buffer      existing development,
                Principal Use      standards;           receiving development
                                   0' if new vegetation plan approval after
                                   is installed to meet effective date; else
                                   required buffer      not applicable
Other Uses                         standards
                                   5' if existing       5' for new development
                                   vegetation meets     or expansion of
                                   required buffer      existing development,
                Accessory Use or   standards;           receiving development
                Vehicular Use Area 0' if new vegetation plan approval after
                                   is installed to meet effective date; else
                                   required buffer      not applicable
                                   standards
Neuse River Basin: Lot Created After July 22, 1997 *
Jordan Lake Protected Watershed: Lot Created After July 27, 2000*
Single-Unit     Principal Use      10'
Residential Use Accessory Use or   5'
                Vehicular Use Area
                                   10' if existing
                                   vegetation meets
                                   required buffer
                Principal Use      standards;           10'
                                   0' if new vegetation
                                   is installed to meet
                                   required buffer
Other Uses                         standards
                                   5' if existing
                                   vegetation meets
                                   required buffer
                Accessory Use or   standards;           5'
                Vehicular Use Area 0' if new vegetation
                                   is installed to meet
                                   required buffer
                                   standards
*Date of adoption of Riparian Buffer Rules by the NC Department of Environment
and Natural Resources.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7719.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7721.jpg]
Features Allowed within Required Setbacks
      (D)   Features Allowed within Required Setbacks or Yards
         (1)   A building, structure, or lot shall not be developed, used, or
occupied unless it meets the minimum lot size, setback, and yard requirements
set forth for the zoning district in which it is located, except as otherwise
established in this Ordinance.
         (2)   A yard, court, or other open space required by this Ordinance
shall not be included as part of a yard or other open space required for
another building or structure.
         (3)   Trees, shrubs, flowers, fences, walls, hedges, other landscape
features, driveways, and uncovered parking pads may be located within any
required setback and/or yard.
         (4)   The buildings or structures on a lot shall not be located in
whole or in part within a required setback or yard, except in certain cases.
The following table lists features that may be located within any required
setbacks, subject to the specific limitations noted:
TABLE 6.3-1: PROJECTIONS PERMITTED INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS
Feature That May Encroach Into Setback Limitation
TABLE 6.3-1: PROJECTIONS PERMITTED INTO REQUIRED SETBACKS
Feature That May Encroach Into Setback  Limitation
                                        May project into a required roadway
                                        setback where making a connection to
                                        another sidewalk or a street, May
At-grade sidewalks; and steps, ramps,   project into a required side or rear
handrails, and supporting elements      setback, but no closer than five (5)
                                        feet to the property line. On a lot
                                        containing a detached dwelling, no
                                        setback is required for at-grade
                                        sidewalks.
                                        May project up to eighteen (18) inches
                                        into any required setback or building
Eave, soffit, sill, cornice, or         restriction line, except where a lesser
ornamental feature                      projection is required to assure
                                        conformance with building separation
                                        requirements of the North Carolina
                                        Building Code.
Bay windows that project outward but do
not touch the ground, and similar
features projecting from the principal  May project up to three (3) feet into
building (does not include cantilevered any required yard or building
floor area or cantilevered walls)       restriction line shown on the
Uncovered porches, stoops, balconies,   subdivision plat for the property, but
decks, steps, and similar features      no closer than five (5) feet to the
projecting from the principal building. property line or buffer. **
(Roofs may not encroach into building
setbacks).
Chimneys
Patios, terraces, and similar features  May project into a required yard or
that are not covered and are located on building restriction line shown on the
the ground and constructed at grade     subdivision plat for the property, but
level                                   no closer than five (5) feet to the
                                        property line or buffer.
                                        May project no closer than five (5)
Accessory buildings and/or structures   feet to the rear lot line and no closer
that are detached from the principal    than five (5) feet to the side lot
structure                               lines. No projection is allowed into
                                        the required roadway setbacks.
Driveway (may not be covered)
HVAC equipment, utility equipment,
mechanical equipment, and electrical
panels related to the operation of a     
detached residential dwelling            
Retaining walls and fences eight (8)    May encroach up to lot line(s)
feet or less in height that are not
located within thirty (30) feet of a
street that is classified as a
collector or thoroughfare.
** Such features that encroach into setbacks and were approved prior to
September 26, 2013 are exempt from this limitation and shall be considered to
be a conforming feature on such properties.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7723.jpg]
Minor Residential Building Encroachments into Required Setbacks
   6.3.3   Clear Sight Triangles
   A clear sight triangle is an area of unobstructed vision at the intersection
of two (2) or more vehicular use areas where drivers can view oncoming traffic
from either direction. All development shall maintain clear sight triangles at
all street and driveway intersections in accordance with the current
regulations of the North Carolina Department of Transportation and the Town's
Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7725.jpg]
Clear Sight Triangles
   6.3.4   Exemptions
   Public Utility Facilities owned and/or operated by the Town are not required
to meet the setback or height provisions of this Chapter.
(Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-
25-08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord. No.
2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-
13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No.
2014-LDO-04, 8-28-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-002, 6-25-15; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-02, 3-
30-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No.
2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22)
6.4   HEIGHT MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
   6.4.1   Definition/Measurement
      (A)   Building Height
         Building height is the vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the proposed finished grade at the front of the building to the
highest point of the roof deck of a flat roof, to the highest point of a
mansard roof, or to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a
gable, hip, or gambrel roof.
      (B)   Exceptions
         Parapets, spires, cupolas, antennae attached to a building,
projections from buildings, mechanical equipment, and accessory structures
associated with an activated roof deck, are not to be included in the
calculation of building height.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44833.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44835.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44837.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44839.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44841.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44843.jpg]
 
   6.4.2   General Height Regulations
 
PRINCIPLE OF INTERPRETATION
  Maximum building heights may be increased beyond the maximum height listed on
a one-to-one (1:1) basis for each additional foot that the structure is
  setback from all property line(s) beyond the minimum required setback.
Individual  building  story height for a residential  structure  typically
  equals twelve (12) feet.
Individual  building  height for a nonresidential  structure  typically
  equals fifteen (15) feet.
 
      (A)   General Increases to Maximum Height Requirement
         (1)   The maximum height limits set forth in Section
6.1 may be increased by one (1) foot for every additional foot provided between
the building footprint and the minimum required setbacks determined in
accordance with this Ordinance.
         (2)   The Planning Director may increase the maximum building height
up to 15% if the following criteria are met:
            a.   The building is in the Town Center District or a Destination
Center;
            b.   The building is part of a mixed-use development; and
            c.   Plans for the property are subject to a development agreement
approved by the Town Council pursuant to G.S. Chapter 158, Article 1; Chapter
160D, Article 10; or 160D-1315.
      (B)   Telecommunications Facilities
         Telecommunications facilities may exceed the thirty-five (35) feet
minimum height requirement, up to a maximum of three hundred and fifty (350)
feet. See Section
5.2.4(D).
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07;
Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-04, 12-12-19; Ord. No. 2021-
LDO-01, 6-24-21)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7733.jpg]
Building Height Exceptions
6.5   BULK MEASUREMENT AND REQUIREMENTS
   6.5.1   Measurements
      (A)   Density, Gross
         The number of dwelling units on a particular tract or parcel of land,
taking into account the entire area of that tract or parcel.
      (B)   Density, Net
         The total number of dwelling units on a particular tract or parcel of
land, not taking into account portions of the tract or parcel that contain
rights-of-way for collector or larger streets, Flood Hazard Area, lakes or
other water bodies, or wetlands falling under the regulatory jurisdiction of
the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, but taking into account all other areas of
the tract or parcel.
      (C)   Floor Area
         The gross total horizontal area of all floors, including usable
basements and cellars, below the roof and within the outer surface of the main
walls of principal or accessory buildings, or the centerlines of a party wall
separating such buildings or portions thereof, or within lines drawn parallel
to and two feet within the roofline of any building or portions thereof without
walls, but excluding, in the case of non-residential facilities, arcades,
porticos, and similar areas open to the outside air which are accessible to the
general public and which are not designed or used as areas for sales, display,
storage, service, or production.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7735.jpg]
Floor Area
      (D)   Building Footprint
         The ratio of the horizontal area measured from the exterior surface of
the exterior walls of the ground floor of all principal and accessory buildings
on a lot to the total lot area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7737.jpg]
Building Footprint
(Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06)
Chapter 7:   DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS
7.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
7.1.1   Purposes
   
7.1.2   Applicability
   
7.1.3   Pre-Application Conference
   
7.1.4   Community Appearance, Site Design Standards, and Other Documents
   
7.1.5   Limitations on Site Disturbance
   (A) Limits of Disturbance
   (B) Limited Disturbance or Construction Outside Limits of Disturbance
7.2   LANDSCAPING, BUFFERING, SCREENING, AND TREE PROTECTION
   
7.2.1   Purpose
   
7.2.2   General Provisions
   (A) Landscaping Plans
   (B) Violations
   
7.2.3   Requirements for Perimeter Buffers and Landscape Areas
   (A) Applicability
   (B) Type and Width of Required Buffer
   (C) Land Use Classes
   (D) Types of Buffers and Landscaped Areas
   (E) Determination of Buffer Width and Responsibility for Installation
   (F) Location of Buffers
   (G) Existing Vegetation, Fences, Walls, and Berms
   (H) Development within Required Buffers
   (I) Zoning Change
   (J) Ownership of Buffers
   (K) Use of Off-Site Landscape Easements
   (L) Distance of Buildings and Structures from Required Buffers
   
7.2.4   Streetscape Landscaping
   (A) Preservation of Existing Vegetation Along Roadways
   (B) Installation of Planted Vegetation Along Roadways
   (C) Required Width of Streetscapes for all Types of Development
   (D) Plantings in Streetscape
   (E) Tree Placement
   (F) Pervious Area and Soil Volume for New Trees
   (G) Stabilizing Steep Slopes
   (H) Planting Criteria for Steep Slopes Adjacent to Rights-of-Way
   (I) Ownership of Streetscapes
   
7.2.5   Tree Protection, Tree Surveys, and Replacement Trees
   (A) Tree Protection and Tree Surveys
   (B) Tree Protection During Construction
   (C) Protection of Champion Trees
   (D) Administrative Approval of Removal of Champion Trees
   (E) Replacement of Champion Trees
   (F) Preservation and Removal of Trees on Town Property
   (G) Removal of Unsafe, Injurious, or Infected Trees on Private Property
   (H) Waivers in Emergencies
   (I) Clear Cutting of Trees and Other Vegetation
   
7.2.6   Parking Lot Landscaping
   (A) Landscaping Requirements in Parking Areas and Vehicular Use Areas
   (B) Existing Vegetation
   (C) Design Standards
   (D) Screening Vehicular Use Areas
   (E) Exceptions for Underground Parking and Above Ground Parking Structures
   
7.2.7   Fences and Walls
   (A) Fence and Wall Height Outside of Required Setbacks
   (B) Fence and Wall Height within Required Setbacks
   (C) Landscaping and Screening of Fences and Walls
   (D) Maintenance
   (E) Exposed Framing Toward Interior Yard
   (F) Fences and Walls within Buffers or Streetscapes
   (G) Setback Requirement
   (H) Fences Prohibited
   (I) Sight Distance
   (J) Rails Required for Retaining Walls and Steep Grade Changes
   
7.2.8   Screening
   (A) Stormwater Devices
   (B) Mechanical and Utility Equipment
   (C) Trash Containment Areas
   
7.2.9   Miscellaneous Landscaping Requirements
   (A) Required Landscaping on Single-Unit Residential Lots
   (B) Required Foundation Plantings for Non-Residential Buildings
   (C) Standards for New Planting
   (D) Irrigation
   (E) Design Standards for Berms
   (F) Easements
   (G) Designated Utility Corridors
   (H) Additional Requirement for Clear-Cut Sites or Sites with Removed
Vegetation in Required Vegetation Protection Areas
   (I)
   (J) Variety of Plant Species Required
   (K) Soil Amendments Required
   (L) Reforestation of Cut and Fill Slopes
   (M) Separation from Utility Appurtenances
   
7.2.10   Allowable Modifications and Reductions
   (A)
   (B)
   (C) Soil Volume
   
7.2.11   Time for Installation of Required Landscaping
   (A) Time Limit
   (B) Extensions and Exceptions
   
7.2.12   Implementation of Landscape Plan; Inspections
   (A) Inspections Prior to Certificate of Occupancy
   (B) Inspections After First Year
   
7.2.13   Maintenance Responsibility, Replacement of Damaged Vegetation, and
Associated Fines
   (A) General Maintenance Responsibility
   (B) Removal, Damage and Pruning of Vegetation
   (C) Replacement of Disturbed and Damaged Vegetation
   (D) Fines
   
7.2.14   Reserved
   
7.2.15 Highway Corridor Buffer
   (A) Purpose and Intent
   (B) Applicability
   (C) Buffer Requirements
   (D) Variances
   (E) Actions of Government or Public Utilities
7.3   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
   
7.3.1   Purpose and Definitions
   
7.3.2   Nutrient Reduction Requirements
   (A) Nitrogen and Phosphorus Control Plan Required
   (B) Exemptions
   (C) Nitrogen and Phosphorus Export Standards
   (D) Calculation of Nitrogen and Phosphorus Export
   
7.3.3   Town of Cary NPDES Phase II Post Construction Runoff Controls
   
7.3.4   Peak Runoff Control
   (A) Calculation of Peak Flow
   (B) Exceptions to Peak Flow Control
   
7.3.5   Maintenance of Stormwater Control Measures
   
7.3.6   Variance
7.4   RESERVED
7.5   RESERVED
7.6   NUISANCE AND HAZARD CONTROL STANDARDS
   
7.6.1   Purpose and Applicability
   
7.6.2   General Standards and Measures for Compliance
   
7.6.3   Performance Standards
   (A) Landscaping
   (B) Noise
   (C) Odors
   (D) Glare
   (E) Smoke
   (F) Dust and Other Particulate Matter
   (G) Gases
   (H) Fire and Explosion Hazards
   (I) Radiation and Radioactivity
   (J) Electrical Radiation
   (K) Wastewater and Industrial Wastes
   (L) Underground and Above-Ground Storage Tanks
   
7.6.4   Effects of Concurrent Operations on Different Properties
   
7.6.5   Determination of Violation of Performance Standards
7.7   BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS
   
7.7.1   Purpose and Intent
   
7.7.2   Applicability
   
7.7.3   General Requirements
   (A) Development within Non-Residential Centers
   (B) Development Outside of Non-Residential Centers
   (C) Building Placement
   (D) Review Considerations
   
7.7.4   Statement of Architectural Compatibility (SAC)
   
7.7.5   Criteria for Review of SAC
   (A) Primary Color(s)
   (B) Accent Colors
   (C) Exterior Materials
   (D) Architectural Features
   (E) Landscaping
   (F) Setbacks and Building Placement
   (G) Building Height
   (H) Lighting
   
7.7.6   Recording Requirements
   
7.7.7   Amendment Process
7.8   OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
   
7.8.1   Purpose
   
7.8.2   Off-Street Parking Space Requirements
   (A) Applicability
   (B) Effect on New and Existing Uses
   (C) Computation of Off-Street Parking Requirements
   (D) Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
   (E) Stacking Spaces for Drive-Through Uses
   (F) Handicapped Parking Requirements
   (G) Design and Location of Parking Areas/Stacking Spaces
   (H) Reduction in Number of Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
   (I) Violation Resolution
   
7.8.3   Parking Alternatives
   (A) Shared Parking
   (B) Off-Site Parking
   (C) Parking Structures
   (D) Valet and Tandem Parking
   (E) Other Eligible Alternatives
   
7.8.4   Dimensional Requirements for Parking Spaces and Aisles
   
7.8.5   Use and Identification of Parking Areas
   
7.8.6   Loading Space Requirements
   (A) Number of Required Off-Street Loading Berths
   (B) Minimum Dimensions
   (C) Waiver or Modification of Requirements
   (D) Location and Screening of Loading Areas
7.9   EXTERIOR LIGHTING
   
7.9.1   General Requirement
   
7.9.2   Lighting Plan Required
   
7.9.3   Standards
   (A) Maximum Lighting Height
   (B) Maximum Light Levels at the Property Line
   (C) Parking Lot Lighting Standards
   (D) Location and Separation Requirements
   (E) Lighting for Canopies
   (F) Floodlights and Spotlights
   (G) Wall Pack Lights
   (H) Illumination of Outdoor Sports Fields and Performance Areas
   (I) Sign Lighting
   (J) Lights in Landscaping and Around Open Sales Area
7.10   CONNECTIVITY
   
7.10.1   Purpose and Scope
   
7.10.2   Consistency with Other Documents
   
7.10.3   Standards for Streets/On-Site Vehicular Circulation
   (A) Street Connectivity
   (B) Street Arrangement
   (C) Cross Access
   (D) Exceptions
   
7.10.4   Standards for Pedestrian Facilities
   (A) Sidewalks
   (B) Greenways
   (C) Street-side Trails
   (D) Community Gathering Spaces and Plazas
   
7.10.5   Standards for Bicycle Facilities
   
7.10.6   Standards for Public Transit Access and Infrastructure
   (A) Applicability
   (B) Requirements
7.11   TRANSPORTATION DEVELOPMENT FEES
   
7.11.1   Purpose
   
7.11.2   Authority
   
7.11.3   Findings
   
7.11.4   Applicability
   
7.11.5   Condition of Approval
   
7.11.6   Transportation Zones
   
7.11.7   Fees
   
7.11.8   Individual Assessments
   
7.11.9   Reserved
   
7.11.10   Fund Accounting
   
7.11.11   Use of Funds
   
7.11.12   Refunds
   
7.11.13   Updates and Revisions
   
7.11.14   Offsets; TDF Agreements
   
7.11.15   Use of Offset
   
7.11.16   Reserved
   
7.11.17   Other Financing Methods
   
7.11.18   Fee as Supplemental Regulation
   
7.11.19   Reserved
   
7.11.20   Relief Procedures
   
7.11.21   Hearings
7.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   7.1.1   Purposes
      The purposes of this chapter include:
      (A)   To encourage the proper use of the land by promoting an appropriate
balance between the built environment and the preservation of open space and
natural environmental resources;
      (B)   To protect private and public investment through preservation of
open space; protection of natural resources including the existing tree canopy
and forests; providing buffers between incompatible uses and along roadways;
reducing heat and air pollution; capturing carbon; and encouraging the planting
of new vegetation as deemed appropriate;
      (C)   To protect and promote the health and economic values trees,
forests, open space and natural lands provide;
      (D)   To promote water conservation/efficiency through preserving natural
areas, encouraging good soil management, and encouraging the use of native and/
or drought tolerant plant materials.
      (E)   To provide proper standards that ensure a high quality appearance
for Cary and promote good design while also allowing individuality, creativity,
and artistic expression; and
      (F)   To preserve and protect the identity and character of Cary, and to
enhance the business economy.
   7.1.2   Applicability
      The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all uses for which
development plan approval is required pursuant to Section
3.9 of this Ordinance.
   7.1.3   Pre-Application Conference
      (A)   A pre-application conference is required for most development plans
submitted under
Chapter 3 of this Ordinance, and thus is required for most development
proposals regulated under this chapter. Pre-application conferences are not
required for development plans that have already been approved and that request
changes which amount to less than fifty (50) percent in non-residential square
footage or less than fifty (50) percent increase in the number of lots/units.
      (B)   At the pre-application conference, the applicant and Planning
Department staff shall discuss the requirements of this chapter in order to
avoid relocation of major site elements after the plan is submitted for review
and approval.
   7.1.4   Community Appearance, Site Design Standards, and Other Documents
   This chapter contains minimum legal requirements related to site design and
layout, appearance, landscaping, and building design. This chapter shall be
used in conjunction with other related documents including, but not limited to,
those listed in Section
1.4. These documents express Town policy and contain standards, guidelines,
examples, and details needed to make this chapter easy to understand and apply
in various situations. Some of these documents contain minimum requirements
that may or may not be included within the text of this Ordinance, or may in
some situations differ with this Ordinance; in such cases, the more restrictive
of the two (2) requirements shall apply. The requirements of
Chapter 7 may be eligible for Minor Modifications. (See Section
3.19 for applicability.)
   7.1.5   Limitations on Site Disturbance
      (A)   Limits of Disturbance
         This Section is provided for informational purposes as a general
guideline about where land disturbing activities should or should not take
place on a development site. On all development sites subject to this chapter,
the following areas shall generally be considered to be off-limits to
development or land-disturbing activities, unless otherwise specified in this
Ordinance:
         (1)   The Flood Hazard Area;
         (2)   Required streetscape areas as measured from the ultimate right-
of-way;
         (3)   Undisturbed perimeter buffers, including the Thoroughfare
Overlay;
         (4)   Zones 1, 2, and 3 of all UTBs;
         (5)   Wetlands under the jurisdiction of the Army Corps of Engineers
unless otherwise permitted by this agency;
         (6)   Conservation easements;
         (7)   Preservation areas required by applicable conditional use zoning
conditions;
         (8)   Champion trees and required protection areas associated with
such trees (e.g. root zone); and
         (9)   Any other areas indicated for protection by the Planning
Director.
      (B)   Limited Disturbance or Construction Outside Limits of Disturbance
         In some cases, limited disturbance or land disturbing activities may
occur within the areas to be protected provided all necessary approvals are
obtained. Such activities include, but are not limited to the following:
         (1)   Mitigation of development activities;
         (2)   Restoration of previously disturbed or degraded areas;
         (3)   Personal gardens not operated on a for-profit basis and
maintained by individual homeowners;
         (4)   Utility installations and emergency public safety activities;
         (5)   Construction of a trail or pedestrian walkway that will provide
public access;
         (6)   The enhancement of the habitat values and/or other natural
resource values of an identified natural area;
         (7)   Landscaping according to an approved landscaping plan; and
         (8)   Construction of public transit amenities, as required by Section
7.10.6 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-
04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord.
No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-01, 1-13-22)
7.2   LANDSCAPING, BUFFERING, SCREENING, AND TREE PROTECTION
   7.2.1   Purpose
   The purpose of these provisions is to establish minimum requirements for the
provision and maintenance of functionally adequate, attractive screening and
buffering of structures, parking areas, driveways, and other facilities and
land uses, while providing standards for the protection of existing and new
trees and vegetation and their root zones. These requirements are intended to
carry out the following objectives:
      (A)   To promote and increase design compatibility between different land
uses, while ensuring attractive views from streets and adjacent properties;
      (B)   To assist in delineating separations of spaces, structures, uses,
and activities on a site, or between adjacent sites;
      (C)   To shield adjacent properties from potentially adverse external
impacts of development, and development from potential negative impacts of
adjacent land uses and activities;
      (D)   To enhance the streetscape by separating the pedestrian from motor
vehicles; abating glare and moderating temperatures of impervious areas;
filtering air of pollutants, fumes, and dust; providing shade; attenuating
noise; and reducing the air temperature, heat, amount and rate of stormwater
runoff, and visual impact of large expanses of pavement;
      (E)   To promote the preservation of open space; existing tree canopy and
vegetation; and natural diversity and wildlife habitat, using supplemental
plantings when necessary to meet the performance criteria of this section;
      (F)   To mitigate adverse grade changes between adjacent properties;
      (G)   To improve the quality of the built and natural environments
through air quality enhancements; heat reduction; carbon capture; energy
conservation; reductions in the amount and rate of stormwater runoff and
erosion; stormwater runoff quality improvements; and increase in the capacity
for groundwater recharge; the provision of health, economic values, and social
benefits; and
      (H)   To enhance the appearance and value of both residential and non-
residential properties.
 
PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION
The Landscaping, Buffering, Screening, and Tree Protection section contains
requirements for the following: perimeter buffers, streetscape and street front
landscaping, tree and vegetation protection, vehicular use area landscaping,
fences and walls, screening, and miscellaneous landscaping requirements.
 
   7.2.2   General Provisions
      (A)   Landscaping Plans
         (1)   In order to implement the requirements of this section,
landscaping plans are required as part of each development plan required under
Section
3.9 of this Ordinance. Plans shall be developed by individuals or professional
firms having the competence and knowledge to satisfactorily develop plans
required by this Section.
         (2)   Landscaping plans shall be designed to improve efficiency of
irrigated areas (if applicable) through minimizing slopes, preserving topsoil,
and retaining stormwater drainage on-site
         (3)   Landscaping plans shall meet the standards of this Section
7.2, and shall be consistent with the standards contained in the Community
Appearance_Manual and the Site Design Standards, which contain standards,
guidelines, examples, and details needed to make this section easy to
understand and apply in various situations, including examples of required
plans, recommended plant species for various applications, and illustrated
examples of what Cary considers to be good site design.
      (B)   Violations
         Violations of this section are subject to fines, replacement of
damaged vegetation, stop-work orders, or any combination of the penalties
listed in Section
7.2.13 or
Chapter 11.
   7.2.3   Requirements for Perimeter Buffers and Landscape Areas
      (A)   Applicability
         (1)   All uses subject to the requirements of this chapter shall
provide an undisturbed buffer to separate that use from adjacent land uses in
accordance with Table
7.2-1. The buffer shall have the width, amount of vegetation, and other
features to properly mitigate negative effects of continuous land uses.
Whenever new landscape material must be used, such material shall consist of
native or non-invasive non- native, drought-tolerant plantings to reduce the
need for irrigation systems and promote restoration of a natural forest.
         (2)   Within the area inside the outer perimeter of the Town Center
District, including all subdistricts and conditional use districts, and
individual Mixed Use Overlay Districts, the requirements of this section shall
apply only to boundaries between properties located within the district and
properties located outside the districts.
         (3)   If an undisturbed buffer does not exist on the site, or has been
disturbed as allowed in this section, then a re-vegetated natural buffer may be
installed. The intent of the re-vegetated buffer is to restore the natural area
(i.e., sufficient upper-story trees to achieve a closed canopy in the future
and, preferably, no installation of turf grasses).
         (4)   The developer of a site/subdivision development shall install
the required landscaping within all streetscapes and buffers when: (1)
construction activity is discontinued for more than 180 days; and/or (2) the
area graded exceeds the initial phase of development. In such instances, all
required streetscapes and buffers shall be installed following the completion
of the installation of site stabilization measures for all areas graded.
      (B)   Type and Width of Required Buffer
         (1)   Buffers Based on Land Use Class
         Table
7.2-1 specifies the type of undisturbed buffer or landscaped buffer that must
be in place. The buffer type is indicated by letter and the total buffer width
in feet is indicated by number. Depending on the land use classification of the
proposed use and the use of the adjacent property , Table
7.2-1 requires an undisturbed buffer or landscaped area (if permitted) of a
particular type and a particular minimum width. Subsection
7.2.3(C) below identifies the land uses that fall within each land use class
shown in Table
7.2-1. This information is also listed by use type in Table
5.1-1 of this Ordinance. Subsection
7.2.3(D) below identifies the performance standards for each buffer type (i.e.,
A, B, or C).
         (2)   Buffer Adjacent to American Tobacco Trail
         A fifty (50) foot wide Type A buffer shall be provided adjacent to the
American Tobacco Trail as required by Section
4.4.3(H)(4) of this Ordinance.
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_7.2-1
TABLE 7.2-1: REQUIRED UNDISTURBED PERIMETER BUFFER/LANDSCAPED AREAS BY CLASS
Proposed Use Class IF DEVELOPED       IF VACANT
                   Adjacent Use Class Adjacent Property Zoning District
                                                                     CT
                   1 2 3 4 5 6 7      Residential Zones (See [D][2]  TC  GC ORD
                                      below for exceptions)          OI     I
                                                                     PDD
TABLE 7.2-1: REQUIRED UNDISTURBED PERIMETER BUFFER/LANDSCAPED AREAS BY CLASS
Proposed Use Class IF DEVELOPED         IF VACANT
                   Adjacent Use Class   Adjacent Property Zoning District
                                        Residential Zones (See [D] CT
                   1  2  3  4  5  6  7  [2]                        TC  GC ORD
                                        below for exceptions)      OI     I
                                                                   PDD
1                  0  20 20 20 25 35 45 20                         25  35 45
                      B  B  B  B  B  B  B                          B   B  B
2                  20 20 30 40 50 65 80 20                         50  65 80
                   B  B* B  A  A  A  A  B                          A   A  A
3                  20 30 20 30 40 50 65 30                         40  50 65
                   B  B  B  A  A  A  A  B                          B   A  A
4                  20 40 30 20 30 40 50 40                         30  40 50
                   B  A  A  B  B  B  A  A                          B   A  A
5                  25 50 40 30 20 20 30 50                         20  20 30
                   B  A  A  B  C  C  B  A                          C   C  B
6                  30 65 50 40 20 20 25 65                         20  20 25
                   A  A  A  B  C  C  B  A                          C   C  C
7                  45 80 65 50 30 25 20 80                         30  30 20
                   B  A  A  A  B  B  C  A                          B   B  C
 
         (1)   No buffer is required between shared public uses (e.g., a park
adjacent to a school, library, or other shared public facility).
         (2)   * Required landscaping areas to be provided between two Class 2
uses are not subject to the ownership restrictions applied to other buffers,
and may be located within the platted portion of a lot.
         (3)   Once a detached dwelling has been constructed and occupied, in
instances where the landscaping area (planted to a Type B standard) between two
(2) type 2 uses is located within the individual building lot, the landowner(s)
may remove or supplement vegetation on the lot.
      (C)   Land Use Classes
         The seven land use classes appearing in Table
7.2-1 include the following uses and structures (refer to Table
5.1-1 for definition of use categories):
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_7.2-2
 TABLE 7.2-2: LAND USE CLASSES
Class Uses Included
 TABLE 7.2-2: LAND USE CLASSES
Class   Uses Included
Class 1 Uses permitted under the Agricultural Uses category, including produce
        stands.
       Cemetery.
        Uses permitted under the Park and Open Space use category, except
        athletic fields, amphitheaters, and neighborhood recreation centers.
        Open space: No buffer is required for any use adjacent to permanent
        and/or zoned open space unless it is needed to meet the buffer width
        and type requirements in Table
        7.2-2 (e.g., open space that is part of a multifamily development
        plan). If this open space is not wide enough, or contains insufficient
        vegetation to meet the buffer type requirements, then the development
        is required to add additional buffer area and/or vegetation so as to
        meet the requirements. Buffer width and type are based on the land use
        on the opposite side of the open space. Setbacks from open space shall
        be the same as those for buffers since the open space is being used to
        meet buffer requirements.
        Single-unit detached dwellings in residentially zoned districts on lots
Class 2 that are eight thousand (8,000) square feet in area or larger and like
        uses.
        Single-unit detached dwellings on lots eight thousand (8,000) square
        feet in area or larger that are located on non- residentially zoned
        property shall be classified as vacant non-residential for determining
        the required buffer.
        In addition, "underdeveloped" properties (larger size properties
        greater than ten (10) acres that have the potential for higher density
        development  based on the future growth framework  development
        category designated for the property in the Shape chapter of the Cary
        Community Plan) that may presently be zoned and/or used for residential
        uses shall be placed in a class consistent with future growth framework
        development  category.
        Single-unit detached dwellings in residentially zoned districts on lots
Class 3 of less than eight thousand (8,000) square feet and like uses
        (including detached patio dwellings).
Class 4 Uses permitted under the Animal Service use category, except outdoor
        kennels.
        Uses permitted under the Assembly use category.
        Day Care Centers
        Athletic fields (public and private).
        Golf course.
        Golf driving range.
        Uses permitted under the Government Services use category, except
        public utility facilities.
        Bed & Breakfast.
        Uses permitted under the Household Living use category, except detached
        dwellings (including detached patio dwellings) and duplex dwellings.
        Libraries.
        Museums.
        Public safety stations.
        Neighborhood recreation centers, indoor and outdoor (public and
        private).
        Nursing homes.
        Uses permitted under the Office use category with a gross floor area on
        the property of fifty thousand (50,000) square feet or less when
        located adjacent to residential uses or zoning.
        Parking lots as a principal use containing less than fifty (50) parking
        spaces.
        Uses permitted under the Religious Assembly use category.
        Uses permitted under the School use category, including pre-schools
        when adjacent to residential uses.
        Uses permitted under the Telecommunications Facilities use category up
        to seventy-five (75) feet in height from the finished grade elevation
        to the top of the tower (not including antennae).
Class 5 Amphitheaters, outdoor (public) seating not more than (250) persons.
        Pre-schools and day care centers when located adjacent to non-
        residential uses.
        Duplex dwelling.
        Farm markets.
        Uses permitted under the Financial Institutions use category.
        Uses permitted under the Group Living use category, except nursing
        homes.
        Hospitals.
        Uses permitted under the Recreation/Entertainment, Indoor use category,
        except neighborhood recreation centers.
        Uses permitted under the Office use category with a gross floor area on
        the property of more than fifty thousand (50,000) square feet when
        located adjacent to residential uses or zoning.
        Parking lots as a principal use containing greater than fifty (50)
        parking spaces.
        Uses permitted under the Public Accommodation use category, except
        guest houses that are not located adjacent to a residential district
        and that have no more than one hundred fifty (150) rooms.
        Uses permitted under the Telecommunications Facilities use category up
        to one hundred fifty (150) feet in height from the finished grade
        elevation to the top of the tower (not including antennae).
        Railroad rights-of-way, including lines and/or tracks.
        Utility substation, minor.
Class 6 Amphitheaters, outdoor (commercial/private).
        Amphitheaters, outdoor (public) seating more than 250 persons.
        Dog kennels, outdoor.
        Uses permitted under the Food and Beverage Service use category.
        Uses permitted under the Public Accommodation use category, except
        guest houses that have 150 rooms or more and that are not located
        adjacent to a residential district.
        Uses permitted under the Office use category when located adjacent to a
        non-residential use or zoning district.
        Recreation, general outdoor (commercial/private).
        Uses permitted under the Retail Sales and Service use category, except
        farm markets and funeral homes.
        Uses permitted under the Telecommunications Facilities use category up
        to 225 feet in height from the finished grade elevation to the top of
        the tower (not including antennae).
        Uses permitted under the Vehicles and Equipment use category.
        Uses permitted under the Warehouse and Freight Movement use category,
        except outdoor storage and railroad stations and yards.
        Commuter rail transit station.
Class 7 Uses permitted under the Aviation use category.
        Uses permitted under the Industrial Service use category.
        Uses permitted under the Manufacturing and Production use category.
        Motor vehicle raceways.
        Uses permitted under the Non-Governmental Utilities use category,
        except minor utility substations and rail transit stations.
        Outdoor storage.
        Uses permitted under the Public Accommodation use category, except
        guest houses, that are located adjacent to a residential district.
        Public utility facilities.
        Railroad stations and yards.
        Uses permitted under the Telecommunications Facilities use category
        above 225 feet in height from the finished grade elevation to the top
        of the tower (not including antennae).
        Uses permitted under the Waste-Related Uses category.
 
      (D)   Types of Buffers and Landscaped Areas
         (1)   The three (3) types of landscaped buffers that appear in Table
7.2-1 are as follows. Detailed illustrations and supplemental information on
buffer configurations are available in the Community_Appearance_Manual.
            (a)   Type A
               1.   This buffer is intended to provide the greatest degree of
screening feasible and minimize visual contact between uses, creating a strong
impression of total separation from the ground to a height of at least eighteen
(18) feet. Vegetative material within this buffer shall meet the following
criteria:
                  a)   Upper-story trees shall be planted at a density of four
(4) trees for every one hundred (100) linear feet of buffer, with a maximum
spacing of thirty (30) feet between trees. Upper-story trees shall attain a
height at maturity of no less than sixty (60) feet.
                  b)   Evergreen understory trees shall be planted at a density
of fourteen (14) trees for every one hundred (100) linear feet of buffer, with
a maximum spacing of ten (10) feet between trees. Understory evergreen trees
shall attain a height at maturity of no less than eighteen (18) feet.
                  c)   Type A buffers that are wider than thirty (30) feet
shall also incorporate shrubs planted at a density of ten (10) shrubs per one
hundred (100) linear feet of buffer. Shrubs shall attain a height at maturity
of no less than three (3) feet.
                  d)   Type A buffers may include a wall, fence, landscaped
earthen berm, planted vegetation, existing vegetation, or any appropriate
combination of these elements.
               2.   The Planning Director may modify the planting criteria for
a Type A buffer pursuant to this section, where shown on any development plan
requiring or identifying a Type A or opaque buffer or landscape area, including
such plans approved prior to the effective date of this ordinance, and/or
pursuant to Section
4.3.5(D)(3) where such buffer is required as a zoning condition, if the
Planning Director determines in accordance with established horticultural
guidelines that achieving the desired degree of buffer opacity while
maintaining existing healthy vegetation within the buffer may not be feasible
due to a combination of the factors listed below, provided that the intended
performance standard is achieved to the extent practicable:
                  a)   type and conditions of significant vegetation remaining
within the landscape area or buffer,
                  b)   availability of sunlight;
                  c)   dimension of required planting area;
                  d)   separation between plants;
                  e)   impact of installation of new plant material on root
zones of any existing material;
                  f)   topography;
                  g)   proximity of man-made features such as utilities,
buildings, sidewalks and retaining walls; and
                  h)   other unique site factors or conditions affecting plant
growth and long-term health of the buffer, streetscape or landscape area.
            (b)   Type B
               This buffer is intended to function as a semi-opaque screen from
the ground to at least a height of six (6) feet. Vegetative material within
this buffer shall meet the following criteria:
               1.   Mid- or upper-story trees shall be planted at a density of
four (4) trees for every one hundred (100) linear feet of buffer, with a
maximum spacing of thirty (30) feet between trees. Mid- or upper-story trees
shall attain a height at maturity of no less than forty (40) feet.
               2.   Shrubs shall be planted at a density of sixteen (16) shrubs
for every one hundred (100) linear feet of buffer, with a maximum spacing of
eight (8) feet between shrubs. At least seventy-five (75) percent of the shrubs
shall be an evergreen species locally adapted to the area.
               3.   Type B buffers may include a wall, fence, landscaped
earthen berm, planted vegetation, existing vegetation, or any appropriate
combination of the elements.
            (c)   Type C
               This buffer area is intended to function as an intermittent
visual obstruction from the ground to a height of at least twenty (20) feet,
and create the impression of spatial separation without eliminating visual
contact between uses. Vegetative material within this buffer shall meet the
following criteria:
               1.   Upper-story trees shall be planted at a density of three
(3) trees for every one hundred (100) linear feet of buffer, with a maximum
spacing of forty (40) feet between trees. Upper-story trees shall attain a
height at maturity of no less than sixty (60) feet.
               2.   Understory or ornamental trees shall be planted at a
density of five (5) trees for every one hundred (100) linear feet of buffer,
with a maximum spacing of twenty-five (25) feet between trees. Understory or
ornamental trees shall attain a height at maturity of no less than fifteen (15)
feet.
               3.   Type C buffers may include a wall, fence, earth berm,
planted vegetation, existing vegetation, or any appropriate combination of
these elements.
         (2)   Buffer plantings shall conform to the following standards:
            (a)   The new plantings comprising the buffer shall be evenly
distributed throughout the buffer. In instances where planting in a row or rows
is necessary to achieve the desired performance objective, trees shall be
planted in staggered rows whenever practicable. In cases where the entire
buffer width may not be needed to achieve the desired performance objective of
the buffer type, the remainder of the required buffer area should have a
minimum spacing of trees as required by the associated buffer type.
            (b)   Buffer performance requirements must be achieved in the
quickest time possible (preferably no more than five (5) years).
            (c)   When detailed information regarding existing vegetation is
not available at the time of development plan approval, then a Town Zoning
Compliance Officer shall determine when existing vegetation may be utilized in-
lieu of new plantings prior to the approval of a Certificate of Occupancy.
            (d)   Depending on actual field conditions, additional trees and
shrubs may be required in addition to the existing vegetation to meet these
buffer requirements.
            (e)   In instances where planting requirement calculations produce
a fraction, the plants shall be rounded up to the next whole number (e.g. five
and one-tenth (5.1) required shrubs shall equal six (6) provided shrubs).
      (E)   Determination of Buffer Width and Responsibility for Installation
         Buffer widths and installation responsibility shall be in accordance
with the following:
            (a)   Where a developing parcel is adjacent to a vacant parcel,
then the developing parcel may provide one-half of the buffer required adjacent
to the vacant land as indicated in Table
7.2-1.
            (b)   Where a developing parcel is adjacent to an existing land
use, then the developing parcel shall provide the full buffer required adjacent
to the existing land use as indicated in Table
7.2-1.
            (c)   The developing parcel next to an existing land use shall
provide the full buffer required unless the existing use already has a buffer
that may be credited towards the required width, or the buffer for an existing
non-residential use was reduced or not required with its development plan
approval.
            (d)   Credit for existing buffers is not given when the existing
use is residential and its existing buffer is on the same lot as the
residential use; see subsection
7.2.3(J), Ownership of Buffers.
      (F)   Location of Buffers
         (1)   The perimeter buffers and/or perimeter landscaped areas required
by this Section shall be located along the outer perimeter of the parcel and
shall extend to the parcel boundary line or right-of-way line; however, the
buffers may be located along shared access easements between parcels in non-
residential developments. Within shopping centers or other non-residential
centers/developments, the perimeter buffer area between outparcels (non-
residential uses) may be provided, totally or in part, elsewhere on the site.
For example, a twenty (20)-foot buffer between like uses may be shifted
elsewhere on the site (preferably within the site's interior) as long as the
total area is provided for. The intent of this subsection is to provide for
more flexibility in site design and to potentially save large natural areas
that may exist elsewhere on the site.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7753.jpg]
Location of Buffers
         (2)   Perimeter buffers or landscaped areas shall not include any
portion of an existing or proposed public or private street, easement, or
right-of-way. Additional buffer area shall be required when easements and other
similar features intrude in the buffer.
      (G)   Existing Vegetation, Fences, Walls, and Berms
         (1)   Existing significant vegetation within the required buffer shall
be preserved and credited toward standards for the type of buffer required,
unless the existing vegetation is seriously diseased, damaged and treatment
would not be practical, or vegetation has or will give rise to a nuisance
situation. Wherever practical, vegetation removal will be limited to just those
portions of the vegetation area necessary to correct any problems, while the
remainder of the vegetation area without problems shall be left intact.
         (2)   Existing berms, walls, or fences within the buffer, but not
including chain link fencing, may be used in part to fulfill the requirements
for the six (6)-foot tall screen where required, provided that these elements
are in a condition of good repair. Where fences or walls are used, they shall
be screened pursuant to the requirements of Sec.
7.2.7(C). Other existing site features within the required buffer area which do
not otherwise function to meet the standards for the required buffer shall be
screened from the view of other properties or removed, as determined during
review and approval of the development plan.
         (3)   If existing significant vegetation and other site features do
not fully meet the standards for the type of buffer required, then additional
vegetation and/or site features (including fences) shall be planted or
installed within the required buffer area to meet the performance criteria
outlined in this section.
      (H)   Development within Required Buffers
         No grading, development, land-disturbing activities, or removal of
vegetation shall occur within buffers or associated tree protection areas with
exception of the following, unless otherwise explicitly permitted in this
Ordinance. Where disturbance within the buffer is allowed, damage to existing
vegetation shall be minimized to the extent practicable and supplemental
planting shall be provided as necessary to meet the performance standard of the
applicable buffer type.
         (1)   Sidewalks, street-side trails and public transit amenities;
         (2)   Utilities, including but not limited to water and sewer lines,
stormwater drainage channels or piping, and similar features, provided that no
reasonable alternative location exists; and
            (a)   they are located perpendicular to the buffer or at an angle
of at least seventy-five (75) degrees; or
            (b)   they are located at an angle less than seventy-five (75)
degrees, and the area contained in the disturbed area is replaced with an equal
amount of buffer area meeting the applicable buffer standard, in proximity to
the disturbed area.
         (3)   Stormwater impoundment areas or other BMPs provided that no
reasonable alternative location exists.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7755.jpg]
Development within Required Buffers
      (I)   Zoning Change
         A revised plan will be required if changes of use or change in zoning
classification occur for an existing use or parcel and such change results in a
higher land use classification per criteria listed in subsection
7.2.3(C) above. The proposed use or parcel shall be brought into compliance
with the perimeter buffer/landscaped area requirements of this section or as
close as existing site conditions permit, as determined by the Planning
Director. Compliance with this Section shall require the submittal and approval
of a revised plan showing that the development is being brought into compliance
to the extent practicable.
      (J)   Ownership of Buffers
         No required buffer in a residential subdivision shall be included
within any single-unit residential lot, or be wholly owned (in fee simple
absolute) by the owner of an individual residential building lot zoned for
residential uses. The buffers shall be owned by a homeowner's association or be
owned outright by a third party or shall be otherwise divided so that the
buffer is not removed, modified, or damaged.
         (1)   Any required buffer (including those required as a zoning
condition) for a residential development shall not be credited toward meeting
the lot size requirements. The preferred method is that the residential buffer
be a separate lot and owned by a separate entity (e.g., a homeowners
association).
         (2)   Where control and/or ownership of the buffer is through a
property owner's association, any modifications, removal, or damage to the
buffer by an adjacent homeowner shall be prohibited.
         (3)   The property owner's association or owner shall be responsible
for any violation related to the buffers in accordance with Section
7.2.13, Maintenance Responsibility, Replacement of Damaged Vegetation, and
Associated Fines.
         (4)   Buffers may be included within residential lots only when all of
the following conditions are met:
            (a)   The subdivision is less than ten (10) acres in size and has
no homeowners association; and
            (b)   There is no reason for the formulation of a homeowner's
association (e.g. covenant, other common areas or engineered stormwater control
structures); and
            (c)   The buffer is placed within a permanent conservation easement
or other legal instrument dedicated to the Town (required documents must be
provided prior to recording the plat for the impacted area).
      (K)   Use of Off-Site Landscape Easements
         Off-site permanent landscape easements may be used to meet required
buffer areas, provided that the size or shape of the parcel significantly
restricts the ability to reasonably use the property and meet the buffer
requirements. These easements must be recorded prior to or in conjunction with
the approval of the development plan. The easement must not be under the same
ownership as the developing site.
      (L)   Distance of Buildings and Structures from Required Buffers
         Building, structures, parking lots and vehicular use areas shall be
set back from required buffers or streetscapes as specified in Section
6.3.2(C) of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2009-LDO-01, 2-12-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord. No. 2011-
LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 12-LDO-01, 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
   7.2.4   Streetscape Landscaping
      (A)   Preservation of Existing Vegetation Along Roadways
         All uses that require development plan approval shall preserve
existing healthy vegetation (as described below) within the streetscape along
all existing and proposed streets and thoroughfares.
         (1)   Residential Development
            Natural and dense vegetation along streets is critical to maintain,
especially along major collectors and thoroughfares, to mitigate the impact of
these roadways. For this reason, existing healthy vegetation shall be
supplemented, if necessary, to achieve a Type A (opaque) standard.
         (2)   Non-Residential Development
            (a)   Selective thinning of trees less than six (6) inches DBH may
occur to improve the viability of trees within the streetscape. An evaluation
of the existing vegetation and recommendation for thinning shall be prepared by
a certified arborist or by a certified forester and submitted in support of any
request involving the removal of trees two (2) inches in DBH or larger. Viable
ornamental trees two (2) inches in caliper or larger must be saved.
            (b)   An applicant may request an exception to remove a portion of
existing trees and undergrowth less than two (2) inches DBH to improve the
viability of the remaining trees or to allow for greater visibility of the
site, unless this vegetation is needed to meet the minimum planting
requirements for a streetscape. Viable ornamental trees two (2) inches in
caliper or larger must be saved.
            (c)   All proposals for thinning streetscapes shall be accompanied
by a report from a registered landscape architect, certified arborist, or other
such specialist justifying the request and containing a more detailed tree
survey showing all plant material two (2) inches in caliper or larger that is
located within the area of streetscape to be thinned. The Planning Director may
require that a portion of existing saplings be left intact to help ensure that
the streetscape can function as a natural tree stand.
             (d)   Non-Residential sites containing existing forest vegetation
within an area designated as the streetscape that is subsequently removed due
to construction-related activity shall be revegetated to partially re-establish
a native forest condition meeting the following criteria:
               1.   Existing vegetation or planted upper-story deciduous and
evergreen trees shall attain a height at maturity of no less than sixty (60)
feet.
               2.   At least fifty (50) percent of the required upper-story
trees, and at least seventy-five (75) percent of the required shrubs shall be
native, evergreen species locally adapted to the area.
               3.   The re-established forest shall contain rows of upper-story
trees with each row spaced at least fifteen (15) feet apart. Within each row of
upper-story trees the trees shall be spaced no wider than twenty (20) feet
between tree trunks. The new forest shall also contain native ornamental trees
spaced no wider than twenty (20) feet, and one shrub six (6) feet high randomly
placed for every ten (10) feet of streetscape length.
               4.   A re-forested streetscape may include a wall, fence, or
landscaped earthen berm, but must also include all required plant material
required by this section.
      (B)   Installation of Planted Vegetation Along Roadways
         The Director may allow the installation and maintenance of a planted
streetscape in lieu of preservation of the existing vegetation along any
streets which are adjacent to the site upon sound justification related to
topography, drainage, site configuration, quality and quantity of existing
healthy vegetation, the road construction requirements, or other similar issue.
If a planted streetscape is permitted, then the following requirements shall
apply:
         (1)   Any required vegetation shall be installed to reforest the
buffer in an amount comparable to what existed naturally (given time for
maturity at a later date).
         (2)   Existing healthy vegetation may be removed after review and
approval by the Planning Director for the following purposes:
            (a)   to achieve required automobile sight distance triangles at
intersections, driveways, or ingress/egress points;
            (b)   to provide drive access to the site;
            (c)   to locate sidewalks, street-side trails and public transit
amenities;
            (d)   to locate residential and non-residential monument signs,
provided that no trees greater than six (6) inches dbh are removed for such
purpose unless there is no alternative sign location of lesser impact to
vegetation outside of the sight distance triangle that would provide adequate
visibility for the sign;
            (e)   to locate stormwater impoundment areas or other BMPs provided
that no reasonable alternative location exists.
         (3)   The applicant may appeal the Director's decision by electing to
have the development plan forwarded to Zoning Board of Adjustment for
consideration
      (C)   Required Width of Streetscapes for all Types of Development
         (1)   The width of the streetscape for non-residential uses shall be a
minimum of thirty (30) feet along thoroughfares and collectors designated on
the Cary Comprehensive Transportation Plan or otherwise designated by the Town,
as measured from the ultimate right-of-way line, except as provided.
         (2)   For residential developments along thoroughfares, the width of
the streetscape shall be a minimum of fifty (50) feet, except as provided;
along collectors, a minimum of thirty (30) feet shall be provided, except as
provided.
         (3)   To protect the historic character of the Carpenter community, an
historic character preservation streetscape is hereby established. New
development (residential and non-residential) located along the following
streets shall provide a fifty (50) foot historic character preservation
streetscape outside the right-of-way and/or any public access easements:
            (a)   Both sides of Morrisville Carpenter Road from its
intersection with Good Hope Church Road to its intersection with Louis Stephens
Drive;
            (b)   Both sides of existing Good Hope Church Road from its
intersection with Morrisville Carpenter Road to a point one thousand one
hundred (1,100) feet north;
            (c)   Both sides of Saunders Grove Lane;
            (d)   The west side of Louis Stephens Drive from its intersection
with Morrisville Carpenter Road to a point nine hundred (900) feet north; and
            (e)   The west side of Louis Stephens Drive from its intersection
with Morrisville Carpenter Road to a point five hundred (500) feet south.
         (4)   If existing healthy vegetation is located within the
streetscape, a ten (10) foot building/five (5) foot vehicular use area setback
from the streetscape is required.
         (5)   According to Section
7.2.10, Allowable Modifications and Reductions, the Planning Director may allow
averaging of the width of a residential streetscape to no less than thirty (30)
feet only if the remaining streetscape effectively mitigates the impact of the
adjacent roadway (i.e., through the use of walls or berms with a substantially
more intensive landscape plan). Only the Zoning Board of Adjustment may permit
other reductions in buffer or streetscape widths.
         (6)   Non-residential developments located on local or private streets
shall provide a fifteen (15) foot streetscape. In situations where property
across the street is zoned or used for residential purposes, the streetscape
shall be installed in accordance with the Type A standards.
         (7)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may reduce the prescribed width
of streetscape to as little as ten (10) feet at the time of  development plan
approval. On redeveloped sites or existing non-conforming sites, the staff may
reduce the streetscape to no less than the streetscape shown on a previously
approved plan for the site to promote redevelopment and reuse of existing sites
where it is impractical to meet current requirements (see Section
7.2.10, Allowable Modifications and Reductions). The applicant shall submit a
statement justifying the reduction based on the below criteria:
            (a)   The relationship of existing topography to the finished
street grades.
            (b)   The type, amount, and location of existing vegetation within
thirty (30) feet of the right-of-way line.
         (8)   All streetscapes are to be made up of existing trees and
supplemented if necessary, unless approved by the Planning Director (see
subsection
7.2.4(A)).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7757.jpg]
Streetscape Width based on Use and Roadway Type
      (D)   Plantings in Streetscape
         (1)   General Provisions
            (a)   The property owner or developer shall preserve existing
healthy trees.
            (b)   The calculation of road frontage to meet the spacing
requirements for trees shall not include driveway widths measured at the right-
of-way line.
            (c)   In instances where planting requirement calculations produce
a fraction, the plants shall be rounded up to the next whole number (e.g. five
and one-tenth (5.1) required shrubs shall equal six (6) provided shrubs).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7759.jpg]
Typical Streetscape Plantings
         (2)   Upper-story Trees
            (a)   The property owner or developer shall install three (3)
upper-story trees at least two (2) inches in caliper for each one hundred (100)
linear feet of streetscape. The maximum spacing between upper-story trees shall
be forty (40) feet.
            (b)   If existing trees that meet the intent of the upper-story
tree requirement are preserved, then the requirement shall be reduced
proportionally.
            (c)   Upper-story trees shall be planted at appropriate distances
from public rights-of-way, sidewalks, and other utilities as required by the
Land Development Ordinance and the Community_Appearance_Manual.
            (d)   Within historic character preservation streetscapes, upper-
story trees shall be native species, at least fifty percent (50%) of which
shall be evergreen. Trees shall be planted at a density of four (4) trees per
one hundred (100) linear feet of streetscape, installed in an irregular manner
to mimic a natural forest stand.
         (3)   Understory/Ornamental Trees
            (a)   Where the required streetscape is thirty (30) feet or less in
width, the property owner or developer shall install or preserve five (5)
deciduous understory or ornamental trees at least two (2) inches in caliper for
each one hundred (100) linear feet of streetscape. The maximum spacing between
understory/ornamental trees shall be twenty (20) feet except as noted in
Section
7.2.4(D)(3)(c).
            (b)   Where the required buffer width is greater than thirty (30)
feet and less than fifty (50) feet, one (1) additional understory/ornamental
tree shall be provided every one hundred (100) linear feet for every four (4)
additional feet of buffer width (or portion thereof) beyond thirty (30) feet.
            (c)   Where the required buffer is fifty (50) feet or greater in
width, the property owner or developer shall install or preserve ten (10)
deciduous understory/ornamental trees at least two (2) inches in caliper for
each one hundred (100) linear feet of streetscape.
            (d)   Sites with streetscapes that meet all LDO requirements and
have a minimum width of at least thirty (30) feet, may cluster understory or
ornamental trees in accordance with the following requirements:
               (i)   Up to twenty percent (20%) of the required understory or
ornamental trees (or a minimum of two (2) along a specific frontage) may be
relocated elsewhere in the streetscape along the same frontage;
               (ii)   Gaps that are created between understory or ornamental
trees may not exceed eighty (80) feet in length; and there shall be a minimum
of two hundred (200) linear feet between gaps.
               (iii)   When understory or ornamental trees are removed from
existing streetscapes, at least an equal number of replacement trees shall be
provided and the total diameter of all replacement trees shall be a minimum of
fifty percent (50%) of the total tree diameter removed.
            (e)   Within historic character preservation streetscapes,
understory trees shall be native evergreen species and shall be planted behind
the required upper-story trees as viewed from the right-of-way or public access
easement. Trees shall be planted at a density of fourteen (14) trees per one
hundred (100) linear feet of streetscape, in a single row parallel to the
right-of-way or public access easement. The intent is for these plantings to
mimic a traditional fenceline planting.
         (4)   Power Line Encroachment
            Where overhead power lines encroach into the streetscape or buffer,
each required upperstory tree may be replaced with two (2) understory trees.
The selected tree type may reach a maximum height of twenty to twenty-five (20-
25) feet at maturity.
      (E)   Tree Placement
         Trees shall be installed on the thoroughfare side of any berm or
screen planting, and no less than five (5) feet from a sidewalk or trail, or
from back of curb where no sidewalk exists or is planned within the
thoroughfare right-of-way. Trees should be installed in a staggered fashion, or
in clusters or groupings of upper-story and/or understory trees in combination
with associated plantings. Trees may be planted in a linear arrangement
parallel to the street, depending upon the area (e.g., downtown areas,
neotraditional developments, etc.). In order to prevent conflicts and allow for
appropriate maintenance, canopy trees shall be placed at least ten (10) feet
from electrical transformers and twenty (20) feet from light poles.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7761.jpg]
Tree Placement
      (F)   Pervious Area and Soil Volume for New Trees
         A minimum of three hundred (300) square feet of pervious ground area
and nine hundred (900) cubic feet of total soil volume for roots per upper-
story tree shall be provided, unless two (2) or more upper-story trees are
sharing one (1) planting bed, in which case at least seven hundred twenty (720)
cubic feet of soil must be provided per upper-story tree. Where possible,
smaller individual planting areas should be combined to allow for larger
planting areas that contribute to healthier trees. Any planting area bounded by
an impervious surface should be at least ten (10) feet wide. No upper-story
tree should be planted closer than five (5) feet to a sidewalk, paved areas, or
other impervious surface. Modifications to soil volume requirements may be
granted pursuant to Section
7.2.10(C).
      (G)   Stabilizing Steep Slopes
         All slopes two to one (2:1) and steeper shall be stabilized with
permanent slope retention devices or suitable combination of plantings and
retention devices. Slopes greater than three to one (3:1) shall not be
stabilized with turf grass (e.g., grasses that need to be mowed), but with
other permanent ground cover such as those listed in the Standard
Specifications_and_Details_Manual, with preference given to native species. No
permanent overhead spray-type irrigation is allowed on slopes greater than two
to one (2:1).
      (H)   Planting Criteria for Steep Slopes Adjacent to Rights-of-Way
         Where the right-of-way is bounded by slopes steeper than three to one
(3:1) or is otherwise not suitable for the planting of upper-story trees, the
following standards shall apply:
         (1)   If natural areas are permitted to be removed and/or graded, the
streetscape slope shall be somewhat level (no greater than four to one [4:1])
planting strip for upper-story trees at least ten (10) feet wide, located
parallel to both sides of the thoroughfare. The planting strip shall be
positively drained throughout. Upper-story trees required by this section may
only be located closer than five (5) feet to the curb or sidewalk on certain
streets, such as those found in neo-traditional developments, or when trees
which do not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in height at maturity are used, but
in no case shall they be closer than two and one-half (2 1/2) feet. Plantings
may be located in the right-of-way only with the prior approval of the
authority or agency that controls the right-of-way (e.g., Town of Cary,
Department of Transportation, or other agency).
         (2)   Existing significant vegetation within thirty (30) feet of and
extending to the right-of-way may be used to satisfy the requirements of this
section, provided that:
            (a)   The existing vegetation meets the requirements of this
section.
            (b)   The vertical grade change is less than four (4) feet above or
below the existing or proposed permanent features of the thoroughfare.
      (I)   Ownership of Streetscapes
         The ownership of streetscapes shall follow the same requirements as
stated in Section
7.2.3(J) Ownership of Buffers.
(Ord. No. 2009-LDO-01, 2-12-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10)
   7.2.5   Tree Protection, Tree Surveys, and Replacement Trees
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-60719.jpg]New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 7.2.7 has been amended by Ord. 2023-LDO-04, approved
11/16/2023, effective 11/16/2023.
      (A)   Tree Protection and Tree Surveys
         (1)   Intent and Purpose
            It is the intent of the Town Council to preserve trees and other
vegetation through buffer (including urban transition buffer), streetscape, and
floodplain regulations, and through champion tree preservation requirements, to
the extent practical and reasonable. Preserving trees and vegetation on a site
should not prevent the reasonable development of a site, given its zoning
classification. This section
7.2.5 is designed to recognize unique site conditions and to allow flexibility
in meeting the requirements.
            The Town Council finds that preserving trees and healthy vegetation
on a site during development:
            (a)   Maintains and enhances the visual character and aesthetic
qualities and appearance of the community and preserves community values;
            (b)   Conserves and enhances the value of buildings and land
            (c)   Conserves the natural resources and environmental quality of
the Town and its environs;
            (d)   Screens and softens the impact of construction and buildings
and balances the scale of buildings;
            (e)   Preserves wildlife habitat, controls surface water runoff,
and moderates temperatures; and
            (f)   Conserves water due to increased absorption ability and
reduced heat effects.
         (2)   Requirement to Protect Champion Trees
            No champion tree may be disturbed or removed except as specifically
allowed by this Ordinance. Preserved champion trees and their associated tree
protection areas must be shown on development plans and reuse/redevelopment
plans as located in a buffer, streetscape, private open space, or other
designated permanent tree protection area. In addition, champion trees
permitted to be included on a residential lot must be shown on plans for the
purpose of designating tree protection fencing during the development and prior
to the certificate of occupancy for buildings/structures.
         (3)   Tree Survey Requirements
            A tree survey aids in the protection of trees by locating trees on
a site before development plans are fully designed so modifications can be made
to the plans to protect trees. A tree survey prepared by a licensed surveyor,
engineer, or landscape architect is required with the submission of all
development plans. Surveys shall have been reviewed and signed by a certified
arborist to confirm tree species, especially understory champion trees. A tree
survey is required for development plansand reuse/redevelopment plans that
propose to disturb areas that contain or are within the critical root zone of
champion trees or specimen and significant trees within required buffers,
streetscapes, and floodplains.
            The survey shall, at a minimum, provide the following information:
            (a)   The number, caliper size, and location of either:
               (i)   All champion and upperstory specimen trees within all
areas to be disturbed, all champion trees within one hundred (100) feet of all
areas to be disturbed, and all upperstory specimen trees within fifty (50) feet
of all areas to be disturbed; or
               (ii)   All champion trees located throughout the development
plan boundaries, all upperstory specimen trees located within any buffer or
streetscape, and all upperstory specimen trees located within fifty (50) feet
of any buffer or streetscape; and
            (b)   All significant trees within the interior ten (10) feet of
all buffers, streetscapes, and floodplains; and,
            (c)   A general description of the forest or forest stands on site
located outside of buffers, streetscapes, and floodplains, including
information on the type of trees and general size ranges.
         (4)   Incentives and Design Flexibility
            Section
7.2.10 provides incentives and design flexibility for preserving existing
healthy trees and forest stands and for protecting the critical root zone of
specimen trees located outside of buffers, streetscapes, and floodplains. For
example, the Planning Directormay permit the exchange of trees otherwise
required to be preserved for the preservation of trees within certain non-
residential buffers and may grant parking reductions if trees or forest stands
that are not otherwise required to be preserved or are located outside of
buffers, streetscapes, and floodplains, are preserved.
         (5)   Definitions
            For purposes of Sections
7.2.5 and
7.2.10 of this Ordinance, the following definitions apply:
            (a)   Adversely impacted means that twenty-five percent (25%) or
more of the critical root zone of a champion tree will be, or, within the three
(3) years prior to the date of application, was disturbed.
            (b)   Disturbed means any use of land that results in a change in
the natural cover or topography. This may include the grading, digging,
cutting, scraping, compaction, or excavation of soil, placement of fill
materials, paving, construction, substantial removal of vegetation, or any
activity which bares soil or rock or involves the diversion or piping of any
natural or man-made watercourse. Routine maintenance of landscape areas is not
included as "land disturbance."
            (c)   Grouping means that the critical root zone of two (2) or more
champion trees or champion tree(s) and specimen tree(s) overlap.
            (d)   Open Space means all buffers, streetscapes, or floodplains;
open space required through rezoning conditions; permanent tree protection
areas; designated community gathering spaces; bonus open space for conservation
residential subdivisions; and other non-regulated permanent open space.
            (e)   Large Champion Tree means any upperstory champion tree forty
(40) caliper inches and larger or any understory champion tree fifteen (15)
caliper inches and larger.
            (f)   Small Champion Tree means any upperstory champion tree less
than forty (40) caliper inches or any understory champion tree less than
fifteen (15) caliper inches.
            (g)   Prominent Location means areas: along any thoroughfare or
collector roadway; along a public/private street interior to the site;
surrounded by buildings/homes on at least two (2) sides; or immediately
adjacent to or within twenty (20) feet of a public greenway easement or public
greenway property boundary.
            (h)   Tree protection area means areas that are required by this
ordinance to be encircled and enclosed within a tree protection fence.
            (i)   Tree protection fencing means the fencing required by Section
7.2.5(B)(2) of this Ordinance.
      (B)   Tree Protection During Construction
         (1)   Owner's Responsibility
            During development of the property, the owner, developer, and/or
builder shall be responsible for the erection of tree protection fencing to
protect existing and/or installed vegetation from damage during development and
prior to certificate of occupancy for buildings/structures. Any disturbance
within the boundaries of such tree protection areas that is not authorized by
the terms of this Ordinance shall result in fines as identified in Section
11.5.2(B)(2)(b), in addition to any other fines and replanting requirements for
the removal or damage of vegetation within tree protection areas.
         (2)   Tree Protection Fencing
            (a)   Where Required
               All existing trees and vegetation that are to be preserved shall
be completely encircled and enclosed within a fence that meets the requirements
of this Ordinance before grading begins. Additionally, tree protection fencing
shall be required around champion trees and shall extend in a circular manner a
distance of at least one and one-quarter (1.25) feet from the tree for each
inch of caliper (excluding existing and undisturbed non-pervious area on
redevelopment/reuse sites). The distance may be reduced if allowed under
Section
7.2.10 of this Ordinance. Tree protection fencing of areas adjacent to existing
and proposed roadways is also required. Tree protection fencing is required on
all Town transportation projects that are adjacent to streetscapes or buffers.
Existing site conditions shall be taken into consideration in determining the
exact location of any tree protection fencing and staff may authorize field
adjustments to the amount of tree protection fencing needed.
            (b)   Type of Tree Protection Fencing
               All tree protection fencing required by this section shall be
four (4) feet orange polyethylene laminar fencing a minimum four (4) feet high
and of durable construction. Passive forms of tree protection may be utilized
to delineate tree save areas that are remote from areas of land disturbance at
the discretion of the Planning Director.
            (c)   Signage
               Signs shall be installed on the tree protection fence visible on
all sides of the fenced-in area (minimum one (1) on each side and/or every
three hundred (300) linear feet). The size of each sign must be a minimum of
two (2) feet by two (2) feet and shall contain the following language in
English and Spanish: "TREE PROTECTION ZONE, KEEP OUT."
            (d)   When Required
               The tree protection fencing shall be clearly shown on the
development plan. No construction, grading, equipment or material storage, or
any other activity shall be allowed within the tree protection area. Tree
protection fencing shall be maintained until the final site inspection prior to
the Certificate of Occupancy is scheduled (including any required perimeter
buffer for single-unit dwelling construction). The tree protection fencing
shall be removed prior to final site inspection for the Certificate of
Occupancy.
         (3)   Disturbance
            Disturbance within the area required to be designated as a tree
protection area, shall occur only if approved by staff on the development plan.
If such a disturbance is permitted for reasons such as location of minor
utility lines, the following preventive measures shall be employed:
            (a)   Clearing Activities
               The disturbance of land, including disturbance caused by the
removal of trees adjacent to tree protection areas can cause inadvertent damage
to the trees in the tree protection area. If trees are being removed adjacent
to tree protection areas, a minimum one and one-half (1 1/2)-foot trenches must
be cut along the limits of land disturbance, so as to cut, rather than tear,
roots. Trenching shall be required for the protection of specimen and/or
champion tree critical root zones immediately adjacent to or within the land
disturbance area (see Community_Appearance_Manual for further guidance).
            (b)   Soil Compaction
               Where compaction might occur due to traffic or the
transportation of materials through the tree protection area, the tree
protection area must first be mulched with a minimum four (4)-inch layer of
processed pine bark or wood chips or a six (6)-inch layer of pine straw (see
Community_Appearance_Manual). Equipment or materials storage shall not be
allowed within tree protection areas.
      (C)   Protection of Champion Trees
         (1)   Intent/Purpose
            One purpose of this subsection is to protect healthy champion trees
during the development process. This shall be accomplished through the review
and implementation of development plans and reuse/redevelopment plans. Trees,
including champion trees located on existing single-unit lots, that are
otherwise not subject to regulation under
Chapter 7 of this Ordinance, are not subject to these requirements. Flexibility
in site design is provided for in Section
7.2.10 which permits area used to preserve champion trees that is not otherwise
required to be preserved to be offset by deducting area from other required
landscape/buffer areas. No champion tree may be removed during development,
unless the approval criteria of Section
7.2.5(D) are met and the removed champion tree is replaced pursuant to Section
7.2.5(E). In support of any application which requests removal of a champion
tree, the applicant must submit a report from a certified arborist that
addresses the criteria of Sections
7.2.5(C) (2) and (D).
         (2)   Priority Order For Preserving Champion Trees
            When applicants are designing development plans, champion trees and
their critical root zone shall be preserved in the following priority order
(which order shall be reviewed when the decision-making authority is making a
determination as to whether a plan is in compliance with Section
7.2.5):
            (a)   Tier 1 Champion Tree (excludes pine trees):
               (i)   Any champion tree grouping located in a prominent
location;
               (ii)   Any single large champion tree located in a prominent
location;
               (iii)   Any single small champion tree located in a prominent
location;
               (iv)   Any champion tree grouping located in a non-prominent
location; and
               (v)   Any single large champion tree located in a non-prominent
location.
            (b)   Tier 2 Champion Tree:
               (i)   Any single small champion tree, excluding pine, located
adjacent to other open space areas;
               (ii)   Any single small champion tree, excluding pine, located
in a non-prominent location;
               (iii)   Any single champion tree, excluding pine, that is forked
(see champion tree definition), located anywhere on site; and
               (iv)   Any single champion pine tree located anywhere on site.
      (D)   Administrative Approval of Removal of Champion Trees
         (1)   The Planning Director shall administratively approve the removal
of any champion tree if the criteria of either (a), (b), (c) or (d) below are
met.
            (a)   After exhausting the allowable modifications/reductions in
Section
7.2.10, the tree is adversely impacted by one (1) of the following:
               (i)   Required road connections;
               (ii)   Required sanitary sewer or storm drain lines;
               (iii)   Public infrastructure improvements made or to be made by
others;
               (iv)   Required stormwater treatment devices located in
geographically and topographically appropriate areas; or
               (v)   Town design standards or requirements that limit the
reasonable location of new structures and expansions to buildings and/or other
features such as parking and private streets on the site (e.g. requirements for
the buildings to front on streets, access points, and similar).
            (b)   All the following criteria have been met:
               (i)   All allowable modifications in Section
7.2.10 have been exhausted; and
               (ii)   The tree is included in the Tier 2 champion tree list;
               (iii)   The total site consists of at least thirty percent (30%)
open space or at least fifteen percent (15%) open space if located in the Town
Center Zoning District or on a reuse/redevelopment site.
            (c)   After exhausting the allowable modifications/reductions in
Section
7.2.10, and due to the site's topography and/or in order to meet town design
standards or requirements (e.g., roadway elevations, sidewalks, etc.), the
finish site elevation will result in the champion tree critical root zone area
being ten (10) feet or more above or below grade on more than one (1) complete
side of the tree.
            (d)   Based upon a certified arborist's report, a large champion
tree has a life expectancy of less than ten (10) years and one (1) or both of
the following exist:
               (i)   Twenty-five (25) percent or more of the tree's canopy is
dead/dying; and/or
               (ii)   Two (2) or more major limbs are dead/dying.
               Replacement pursuant to Section
7.2.5 (E) shall be required if the champion tree meets this criteria and is
removed.
         (2)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall review and take action on
any other request to remove a champion tree as a Minor Modification pursuant to
Section
3.19.
      (E)   Replacement of Champion Trees
         (1)   When a champion tree is removed during construction, or is dying
or dies within one (1) year following completion of construction pursuant to a
development plan for a site that is not located in the Town Center District and
is not a reuse/ redevelopment site, the applicant or developer shall replace
such champion tree as follows:
            a.   Trees of similar type must be planted at least thirty (30)
feet from any other tree such that the total caliper inches of trees planted is
no less than the caliper inches of the tree removed;
            b.   The size of such replacement trees at the time of installation
shall be a minimum of two and one-half (2 1/2) inches in caliper;
            c.   Tree protection areas that are not in required open space may,
if placed in private permanent open space, be credited towards this replacement
requirement at one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the caliper inches of the
trees preserved for healthy hardwood trees a minimum of two (2) caliper inches
in size and healthy evergreen trees a minimum of four (4) caliper inches in
size; and
            d.   If sufficient area does not exist on the site to plant
replacement trees, the applicant or owner must coordinate with Town staff to
design and implement a plan to plant the required replacement trees on town
properties, town-maintained properties, and/or other public property within the
Town's jurisdiction. If the Town determines this is not feasible, fines shall
be assessed in accordance with Section
11.5.2(B)(2)(d).
         (2)   When a champion tree is removed during construction, or is dying
or dies within one (1) year following completion of construction pursuant to a
development plan on a site located within the Town Center District or on a
reuse/redevelopment site, the applicant or developer shall comply with the
requirements of section
7.2.5(E)(1), except that the total caliper inches of trees planted may be less
than the diameter of the tree removed if it is not practical to replant the
required number and size of trees spaced at least thirty (30) feet from any
other tree on the same site or any adjacent property under common ownership.
The maximum size of any replacement tree shall be three (3) caliper inches.
         (3)   In consultation with the Town staff, acceptable replacement
trees shall be determined by a person qualified by training or experience to
have expert knowledge of the subject. Alternatively, the valuation of trees
removed may be established in accordance with standards established by the
International Society of Arboriculture and replaced with trees of equal dollar
value.
         (4)   Replacement trees shall be maintained through an establishment
period of at least three (3) years, except that replacement trees planted in
association with development of detached dwellings on an individual lot shall
have an establishment period of only one (1) year. The property owner and
developer shall execute a landscape agreement guaranteeing the survival and
health of all replacement trees during the establishment period and
guaranteeing to replace any replacement tree(s) that does not survive the
establishment period in good health as determined by a certified arborist.
      (F)   Preservation and Removal of Trees on Town Property
         (1)   Preservation on Town Property
            (a)   The Town shall have the right to plant, maintain, and remove
trees and vegetation on all Town property as may be necessary to ensure public
safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of Town property. The
Town also may remove any Town-owned tree, shrub, or part thereof that is in an
unsafe condition, which by its nature is injurious to sanitary sewers,
electrical power lines, gas lines, water lines, or other public improvements,
or which is infected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest.
            (b)   This section does not prohibit the planting of upperstory
trees or shrubs by adjacent property owners on Town property, provided that the
selection and location of said trees or shrubs complies with the planting
guidelines developed by the Community_Appearance_Manual or other documents and
is approved by the Town.
         (2)   Injury or Obstruction to Trees on Town Property Prohibited
            No person shall, without prior written permission from the Town,
place or maintain upon the ground in any public street right-of-way or Town
property any stone, cement, or other impervious matter or any fill material in
a manner that may obstruct the free access of air and water to the roots of any
tree or shrub in any such street right-of-way or Town property. Any person who
is erecting, repairing, altering, or removing any building or structure shall
place a guard or protector around any tree or shrub on Town property so as to
prevent injury to such tree or shrub.
      (G)   Removal of Unsafe, Injurious, or Infected Trees on Private Property
         (1)   The Town may cause to be removed from private property any tree,
shrub, or part thereof which is or contributes to a public nuisance.
         (2)   The Town or its agent may enter upon private property to trim,
treat, or remove any tree or shrub infected by any parasite, insect, or pest,
when necessary to prevent the breeding or scattering of any parasite or pest
and to prevent danger to persons, property, or trees and shrubs planted in
public street rights-of-way or other Town property.
         (3)   Prior to exercising the authority conferred by this section, the
Town shall give the owner an opportunity to correct the condition by ordering
the corrective action be taken. The order shall be sent by certified or
registered mail to the owner of the property in question, and shall be acted
upon by the owner or occupant within fourteen (14) days from the date he or she
receives the order. If, after fourteen (14) days, the owner or occupant has not
corrected the condition or undertaken action that would lead to a timely
correction of the condition, then the Town may enter upon the property, perform
the work necessary to correct the condition, and bill the owner or occupant for
the actual costs incurred in addition to an administrative fee.
         (4)   For trees located within open space, the determination of
whether a tree or trees are unsafe, injurious, dead, or dying shall be made
only by the Town or its recognized representative.
      (H)   Waivers in Emergencies
         During emergencies, such as windstorms, ice storms, fire, or other
disasters, the Town Manager may waive the requirements of this section in order
to avoid hampering private or public work to restore order in the Town. This
section shall not be used, however, to otherwise circumvent the requirements of
this Section
7.2.
      (I)   Clear Cutting of Trees and Other Vegetation
         (1)   The removal or clear cutting of trees and other existing
vegetation on undeveloped or under-developed sites within the corporate limits
or extra-territorial jurisdiction is prohibited except as otherwise permitted
in this Ordinance.
         (2)   Any clear cutting or vegetation removal on vacant, undeveloped,
or underdeveloped sites must be done in accordance with an approved development
plan or in accordance with the Tree Clearing Certificate process in Section
3.22.
         (3)   Trees and other existing vegetation shall be maintained within
existing UTBs consistent with the requirements of this Ordinance and state law.
Removal of existing trees and vegetation without approval from the Town and/or
the State shall be a violation of this Ordinance, and shall be subject to the
requirements and penalties of Sections
7.2.9(H),
7.2.13 and
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2009-LDO-01, 2-12-09)
   7.2.6   Parking Lot Landscaping
      (A)   Landscaping Requirements in Parking Areas and Vehicular Use Areas
         All vehicular use areas shall contain at least one (1) upper-story
tree for every seven parking spaces required. If overhead utility lines are
present and would impair the growth of an upper-story tree , two (2) understory
trees fifteen (15) to twenty-five (25) feet in height at maturity may be used
instead of one (1) upper-story tree . All vehicular use areas used for parking
shall be screened from the view of adjacent properties and streets by evergreen
plantings that will attain a height of three (3) feet within three (3) years of
planting. The use of shrubs and ground covers is greatly encouraged in parking
area islands and along the borders of parking areas.
      (B)   Existing Vegetation
         Existing healthy, well-formed upper-story trees may be counted toward
the requirements of this section, provided that these trees are protected in
accordance with Section
7.2.5, Tree Protection and Replacement, before and during development of the
site and maintained thereafter in a healthy growing condition.
      (C)   Design Standards
         The design of the vehicular use area with landscaped areas, and the
selection of plant materials, shall conform to the following standards:
         (1)   Install one (1) upper-story tree for every seven (7) parking
spaces as required (see paragraph (A) above).
         (2)   Trees shall be selected for their appropriateness based on site
conditions from the Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
         (3)   All upper-story trees shall not be planted any closer than five
(5) feet, to the edge of the parking area pavement or curb.
         (4)   A parking lot consisting of fewer than ten (10) spaces may
incorporate the required upper-story trees around its perimeter. These parking
lot trees shall be located no farther than ten (10) feet from the back of curb.
         (5)   Only upper-story trees shall be used for perimeter planting
areas and interior parking area islands. For auto sales and rental lots
understory trees may be used.
         (6)   All trees shall be evenly distributed throughout the parking
areas and parking perimeter at the required ratio.
         (7)   No more than fourteen (14) continuous parking spaces shall be
allowed without a minimum of one (1) landscape island containing an upper-story
tree. In developments using double-sided parking bays, a parking lot island
measuring no less than eighteen (18) feet square may be provided in a staggered
pattern to provide no more than twenty-eight (28) contiguous spaces.
         (8)   The size of parking area landscape islands and upper-story tree
placement shall be as specified in the Community_Appearance_Manual.
         (9)   All planting medians and/or islands containing a tree shall be
at least ten (10) feet long by ten (10) feet wide from back of curb to back of
curb, with a minimum of three hundred (300) square feet of space per upper-
story tree. Linear planting strips between the lengths of parking isles are
strongly encouraged rather than numerous small one (1) tree islands. If a
linear strip is used, fifteen (15) shrubs per one hundred (100) linear feet
must be planted in addition to the required trees.
         (10)   A continuous linear island no less than ten (10) feet in width
[fifteen (15) feet in width if sidewalk is included in island] shall be
installed in off-street parking areas approximately every one hundred twenty-
two (122) linear feet (one (1) linear median to every two (2) double-loaded
parking bays) in one (1) direction for vehicular surface areas exceeding forty
thousand (40,000) square feet. Other design options may be approved provided
that the intent of "visually breaking up" large areas of parking is met. Credit
may be given for saving existing trees located interior to the site. This
requirement does not apply to vehicular display lots, to vehicular rental lots,
or to other similar lots.
         (11)   The size of the planting area and size of plant material at
maturity shall allow for a two and one-half (2½) foot bumper overhang from the
face back of the curb. Barriers, such as curbs or wheel stops, must be provided
between vehicular use areas and landscaped areas.
         (12)   All sidewalks shall be at least five (5) feet from the trunks
of upper-story trees, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Director. For
example, when the placement of the sidewalk would require the removal of an
existing upper-story tree to meet this requirement or where there is not enough
space on the site to accommodate both the tree and the sidewalk, this
requirement may be modified.
         (13)   Parking lots shall be graded so that landscape islands do not
impound water, unless surface impoundment is required as a method of on-site
retention of stormwater. Landscape islands should be composed of well-prepared
structured soil and thoroughly cultivated and amended so as to support healthy
plant growth.
         (14)   Preservation of existing groups, stands, or groves of trees, as
well as isolated islands with single trees, is strongly encouraged (see Section
7.2.10, Allowable Modifications and Reductions).
         (15)   Upper-story trees shall be at least two (2) inches in caliper
when installed.
         (16)   Evergreen shrubs shall be at least two (2) feet in height and
minimum three (3) gallon container size at the time of installation.
         (17)   The standards for all plants in vehicular use areas shall
conform to the American Standard for Nursery Stock published by the American
Association of Nurserymen for that type of tree or shrub at the time of
installation. (The selection and planting of trees and shrubs shall conform to
the standards set forth in this publication or the Town's Community_Appearance
Manual, whichever is stricter).
         (18)   Adequate drainage, mulching, and irrigation shall be provided
for landscape medians and islands. If automatic underground irrigation systems
are permitted, moisture sensor regulators, soil moisture sensors, or drip
irrigation shall be used.
         (19)   The property owner or developer shall provide for continuous
maintenance of the landscaped areas after occupancy of the building. The
property owner shall ensure that performance criteria within this Ordinance
and/or included on the approved development plan are met. Failure to correct
deficiencies in a timely manner shall result in a citation for violation of
this Ordinance in accordance with
Chapter 11.
      (D)   Screening Vehicular Use Areas
         Where there is a vehicular use area between the thoroughfare and a
permanent non-residential building, an opaque screen shall be provided between
the right-of-way and the vehicular use area. The screen may consist of plants,
earthen berms, fences, walls, or any combination thereof, which meet the
following requirements:
         (1)   The screen shall be continuous, occupying the full length of the
vehicular use area, except for sidewalks and driveways that cut through the
screen to connect the vehicular use area to streets and other properties.
Shrubs shall be at least two (2) feet in height above finished grade, and
healthy at the time of installation. Vehicular use area screening shrubs shall
be maintained so as to permit the shrubs to form a continuous evergreen screen.
         (2)   Berms may be used or installed in lieu or in addition to
plantings. If the berm does not meet the performance standards of this section,
then plant materials shall be installed which meet these standards. The
installation of additional plant materials is encouraged so as to enhance the
visual and aesthetic qualities of the streetscape. Plantings should be placed
based upon topography of the site, usually at the top of the slope.
         (3)   Berms must, at a minimum, be planted and maintained with a
groundcover vegetation or grass that will permanently stabilize the soil.
         (4)   Shrubs, plantings, hedges, or walls shall provide an opaque
screen or barrier for the first three (3) feet of height within three (3) years
of planting.
         (5)   Vehicular use areas used for the purpose of loading/unloading,
and accessways to those areas shall be screened from views of streets and
adjacent development.
      (E)   Exceptions for Underground Parking and Above Ground Parking
Structures
         When parking is provided underground or within buildings, the above
requirements shall not apply. However, if the parking is visible from a public
right-of-way or adjacent property , then it shall be screened from views from
streets and adjacent properties pursuant to subsection (D) above. Unless they
are designed to look like, reflect the architectural style of, and blend in
with the adjacent buildings, dense landscaping should visually separate all
parking structures from the view of streets and adjacent property . If this is
not possible, then the walls of the structure should be softened by the use of
terracing, plantings, or other techniques.
7.2.6 VEHICULAR USE AREA PLANTING STANDARDS - Parking Lot Planting Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-19148.jpg]
 
(Ord. No. 2009-LDO-01, 2-12-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10)
   7.2.7   Fences and Walls
   Fences and walls are permitted as an accessory use in all zoning districts
provided that they meet the following requirements:
      (A)   Fence and Wall Height Outside of Required Setbacks
         Fences and walls located outside of the minimum front, rear and/or
side yard setbacks, as shown in Section
6.1, Tables of Density and Dimensional Standards, may be erected to any height
permitted for buildings in the respective zone district, also indicated in
Section
6.1.
      (B)   Fence and Wall Height within Required Setbacks
         Fences and walls located within a minimum roadway, rear and/or side
yard setbacks, as shown in Section
6.1, Tables of Density and Dimensional Standards, shall not exceed eight (8)
feet in height unless specifically approved as part of a buffer under Section
7.2.3, or approved by the Zoning Board of Adjustment as part of a development
plan, Special Use Permit, or variance. Columns and entry features shall not
exceed twelve (12) feet in height unless specifically approved as an entry
monument alternative to a principal ground sign under Section 9A.3.1(H). These
features shall be located outside of required sight distance triangles.
      (C)   Landscaping and Screening of Fences and Walls
         Fences and walls taller than forty-two (42) inches and located within
thirty (30) feet of a thoroughfare or collector street right(s)-of-way shall
meet the following landscape requirements:
         (1)   One (1) shrub shall be installed for each five (5) feet of
property frontage along a thoroughfare or collector street. Shrubs shall be
evergreen and shall be a minimum of twenty-four (24) inches tall at time of
installation. Shrubs may be installed in a staggered, clustered, grouped or
linear fashion, and all plantings shall be installed on the side of the fence
that faces the right-of-way.
         (2)   Retaining walls that are forty-two (42) inches or more above an
established grade are also required to meet the above screening requirements.
         (3)   A fence permit shall be obtained for fences adjacent to
thoroughfare or collector street right(s)-of-way.
      (D)   Maintenance
         The owner of the property (or other party responsible for maintenance
as depicted on the approved development plan) on which the fence or wall is
located is required to maintain the fence or wall in a safe and attractive
condition. This shall mean the following:
         (1)   No fence or wall shall have more than twenty (20) percent of its
surface area with disfigured, cracked, ripped or peeling paint or other
material; and
         (2)   A fence or wall shall not stand with bent or broken supports,
including loose or missing appendages; and
         (3)   Fences and walls shall be plumb (vertical) to the ground.
         (4)   Replacement of non-conforming fences shall comply with all the
requirements of this section.
      (E)   Exposed Framing Toward Interior Yard
         Fences and walls that are visible from a thoroughfare or collector
street right-of-way shall be constructed such that exposed framing faces the
interior yard and not the thoroughfare or collector street right-of-way.
      (F)   Fences and Walls within Buffers or Streetscapes
         Fences and walls shall be installed so as to not disturb or damage
existing, significant vegetation or installed plant material.
      (G)   Setback Requirement
         To allow sufficient room for the landscaping to mature, fences and
walls located within thirty (30) feet of a thoroughfare or collector
street right-of-way shall be installed a minimum of five (5) feet (preferably
ten (10) feet to allow room between plants and the sidewalk) from the property
line. There shall be no setback for fences not located adjacent to a
thoroughfare or collector street right-of-way.
 
PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION
Where there is a separate property located between the right-of-way and the
proposed fence or wall (such as common open space that is owned by a homeowners
association or other entity), the setback may be measured from the right-of-way
and not from the property line.
 
      (H)   Fences Prohibited
         Fences that are electrically charged and those constructed of barbed
or razor wire shall be prohibited. This prohibition shall not apply to fences
used to enclose livestock on bona fide farms and those serving a public or
quasi-public institution for public safety or security purposes.
      (I)   Sight Distance
         No fence or wall shall be allowed to obstruct sight distance
triangles.
      (J)   Rails Required for Retaining Walls and Steep Grade Changes
         (1)   All retaining walls over thirty (30) inches in height and steep
grade changes at a one to one (1:1) ratio or greater shall include guards or
other acceptable fencing/barricades measuring a minimum thirty-six (36) inches
in height on a residential lot with a detached dwelling, townhouse, duplex, bed
and breakfast, group home, or a family care home with four (4) or fewer
residents. Guards or other acceptable fencing/barricades measuring forty-two
(42) inches in height shall be required for all other uses. Guards shall be
constructed with no opening greater than four (4) inches.
   7.2.8   Screening
      (A)   Stormwater Devices
         Stormwater Best Management Practices (BMPs) shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained to contribute to the aesthetic values of
development. Visible hardscape transitions or edges (walls) for stormwater
devices should not be used outside of Mixed Use Overlay Districts. BMPs should
be graded and landscaped to blend with the surrounding landscape to provide
better transitions as demonstrated in the Site Design Standards Document.
Culverts, outlet structures, level spreaders, and other devices associated with
stormwater BMPs shall be landscaped to reduce their visual impacts. All
proposed landscaping shall be shown on an approved development plan. The
Planning Director may allow the use of hardscape transitions for developments
outside of a Mixed Use Overlay District pursuant to Section
3.19.1.
         Where used, visible hardscape transitions shall be subject to the
following criteria:
         (1)   The exterior surface of the wall should consist of decorative
material such as stone or brick. Where public visibility is limited, split-face
block or other modular design may be used. Poured-in-place concrete walls shall
not be used for stormwater device edges.
         (2)   The stormwater device shall be located and designed such that it
is accessible to the public and intended to serve as an aesthetic amenity to
the site. The device shall be incorporated into or located in immediate
proximity to pedestrian plazas or other active areas of the site.
         (3)   The design of the wall shall be tiered in order to accommodate
the plantings installed to soften the mass of the upper half of the wall
height. Wall tiers shall not exceed approximately six (6) feet in height and
three (3) feet in depth. Draping plant material planted at the top of the wall
may be acceptable in circumstances in which the wall height is limited and a
tiered structure is not appropriate.
      (B)   Mechanical and Utility Equipment
         (1)   Heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and other mechanical and
utility equipment, including but not limited to hoses, pipes, vents, fans,
compressors, pumps, and heating and cooling units, ground based electrical
transformers, telephone, or cable junction boxes, which are located on, beside,
or adjacent to any building or development, shall be fully screened from the
view of streets and adjacent property.
         (2)   The screen shall exceed the height of the equipment, shall not
interfere with the operation of the equipment, and shall use building materials
and design which are compatible with those used for the exterior of the
principal building.
         (3)   Where mechanical and utility equipment is located on the roof of
a structure, all devices shall be fully screened from the view of streets or
adjacent property after grading or other improvements are made outside or
adjacent to the site.
         (4)   The Planning Director may require mufflers or other noise
reducing technique on mechanical and utility equipment in developments adjacent
to existing or future residential projects to mitigate noise impact (refer to
Town Code for noise requirements).
         (5)   Utility equipment and facilities associated with on-site
electric, cable, telephone, gas or other similar utility, including ground-
based electrical transformers and power meters, shall be placed in service
areas on the sides or rear of buildings, and shall be screened, to the extent
possible, with evergreen plantings or other acceptable alternative approved by
the Planning Director. (This requirement applies to both residential and non-
residential developments). Areas around this equipment and facilities shall
remain clear based on each utility company's guidelines.
      (C)   Trash Containment Areas
         Developments must account for disposal of trash, including trash and
recycling containment devices. Restaurants, large retail establishments and
other similar businesses must indicate how they plan to address cardboard
recycling prior to development plan approval. All trash containment devices,
including compactors, dumpsters, and recycling drop-off bins, shall be located
and/or screened so as not to be visible from the view of internal travelways,
adjacent streets and properties. The type of screening used shall be determined
based on the proposed location of the trash containment area, existing site
conditions, and the type and amount of existing and proposed vegetation on the
site. All such areas shall meet the following standards:
         (1)   All trash containment areas shall be enclosed with solid gates
to allow for access and security and contain windblown litter. In addition, the
Planning Director may require self-closing gates for such enclosures. Gates
must be maintained in good working order.
         (2)   The enclosure shall be at least eight (8) feet tall or two (2)
feet taller than the highest point of the compactor or dumpster, whichever is
greater.
         (3)   The enclosure shall be made of a material that is opaque at the
time of installation and compatible with the design and materials of the
principal building. The material shall be masonry or other material that
matches the building material; however, wood and other similar material may be
used for gates.
         (4)   All compactors and dumpsters shall be placed on a concrete pad
that is large enough to provide adequate support, allows for positive drainage,
and, where applicable, conforms to the Wake County Health Department
regulations governing compactor pads.
         (5)   The Planning Director may require some uses to install a pad and
screening enclosure large enough to accommodate both a trash container as well
as a recycling container for cardboard.
         (6)   The enclosure shall be kept free of litter, debris, and residue.
         (7)   The dumpster or compactor shall be accessible to the
handicapped.
         (8)   All recycling drop-off containers and storage bins, with the
exception of roll-out carts located in townhouse and multi-family developments
and recycling containers located on school sites, shall be screened from view
to at least fifty (50) percent of the height of the containers and bins in the
station. The screen may be fencing or plantings. If plantings are used, the
plants must reach the required height within three (3) years of planting. Roll
out carts associated with non-residential uses shall be a neutral or earth tone
color, not be visible from a public street, and be located within the interior
of the development. Drop-off containers and storage bins shall be located no
closer than fifty (50) feet to a lot occupied by a dwelling.
   7.2.9   Miscellaneous Landscaping Requirements
      (A)   Required Landscaping on Single-Unit Residential Lots
         (1)   Minimum requirements shall be written out on the approved
development plan; however, no specific landscape plan is required for
individual lots.
         (2)   Landscaping for individual lots shall be installed or secured
for a future planting date prior to the Certificate of Occupancy permit.
         (3)   Existing vegetation on individual lots shall be retained to the
maximum extent possible.
         (4)   A ten (10) foot wide landscape area meeting the Type B buffer
standard shall be provided on each lot where rear yards back up to each other
or are visible from other rear yards.
      (B)   Required Foundation Plantings for Non-Residential Buildings
         With the exception of building in the Town Center district, foundation
plantings are required on all non-loading and non-service sides of non-
residential buildings unless approved through a Statement of Architectural
Compatibility (see Section
7.7.4).
      (C)   Standards for New Planting
         (1)   All trees shall be at least eight (8) feet high above ground
level and a minimum of two (2) inches in caliper at the time of installation,
and shall have an expected mature height based on the buffer type.
         (2)   All shrubs shall be healthy, at least twenty-four (24) inches in
height above ground level and shall reach the height required for performance
within five (5) years after installation.
         (3)   The standards for all trees and shrubs, including the minimum
height, root ball size, number of branches, and width, shall conform with the
American Standard for Nursery Stock published by the American Association of
Nurserymen for that type of tree or shrub at the time of installation.
         (4)   The selection and planting of trees and shrubs shall conform to
the standards set forth in the Community_Appearance_Manual  and Standard
Specifications_and_Details_Manual. Trees intended for use in areas that are ten
(10) feet wide or less and are adjacent to impervious surfaces shall be species
that are suited to use in urban environments (i.e., reflected heat, limited
pervious area, limited moisture) and are not shallow rooted, so as to avoid
future damage to sidewalks and paved areas.
      (D)   Irrigation
         (1)   The use of irrigation systems and lawn turf is generally
discouraged, but may be permitted if connected to a private well, other private
water source, or public reclaimed water system.
         (2)   If automatic irrigation systems are permitted, moisture sensor
regulators, soil moisture sensors, or drip irrigation shall be used.
         (3)   Irrigation systems may connect to the main water connection for
the building unless otherwise restricted through other Town ordinances or
policies.
         (4)   The above provisions shall also apply to all landscape areas
required in parking and vehicular use areas per Section
7.2.6.
      (E)   Design Standards for Berms
         All berms used in a perimeter buffer (or in a streetscape) shall meet
the following design standards:
         (1)   The slope of all berms shall not exceed a two to one (2:1) ratio
(horizontal to vertical), shall have a top width at least one-half (½) the berm
height, and a maximum height of four (4) feet above the toe of the berm. The
Planning Director shall approve all berms. Berms proposed to be greater than
four (4) feet in height may be permitted by the Director if the four (4) foot
maximum height is not practicable due to physical site constraints, such as
topography, presence of stream buffers or other natural features, or lot
dimensions; or due to presence of existing development or infrastructure.
         (2)   Proposed berms to be placed over an existing or proposed utility
easement(s) shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.
         (3)   All berms, regardless of size, shall be stabilized with a ground
cover or other suitable vegetation according to the Town's Standard
Specifications_and_Details.
         (4)   The Directors of Public Works, Transportation and Facilities,
and Planning shall approve all berms proposed to be placed along street right
(s)-of-way. Such berms shall be designed and constructed to provide adequate
sight distances at intersections and along all other roads.
         (5)   Berms proposed to satisfy the buffer requirements specified in
subsection
7.3.2 shall be vegetated as required by this section. Berms must be stabilized
with ground cover to prevent erosion and sedimentation. Use of berms as a
substitute for existing healthy vegetation is strongly discouraged. However, if
berms are allowed to replace existing vegetation that already meets the
standards contained in this section, then they must also meet the buffer
standards and must be approved by the Planning Director.
         (6)   Berms shall in no case damage the roots of existing healthy
vegetation designated to be preserved.
      (F)   Easements
         Nothing shall be planted or installed within an underground or
overhead utility easement or a drainage easement without the consent of the
Town and the easement holder at the time of site plan approval.
      (G)   Designated Utility Corridors
         In order to reduce the damage to root systems of existing vegetation
within streetscapes, buffers or any other tree save areas, designation of
planned utility connection corridors is required to be shown on all development
plans to coordinate the location of electrical, telephone, cable, and other
similar utilities.
      (H)   Additional Requirement for Clear-Cut Sites or Sites with Removed
Vegetation in Required Vegetation Protection Areas
         Larger trees up to four (4) inches in caliper and/or up to double the
amount of the required number of trees and shrubs may be required by the
Planning Director if the site and/or the required vegetation protection areas
specified in this Ordinance were clear cut within five (5) years prior to
submittal of a development plan.
      (I)   It is recommended that all common areas and similar areas used as
general unspecified open space be stabilized using warm season grasses or
planted with trees to increase canopy cover.
       (J)   Variety of Plant Species Required
          No single species of tree shall constitute more than twenty-five (25)
percent of the plant material of its type installed on a single development
site. This restriction may be modified by the Planning Director on sites
smaller in size than two (2) acres provided that an acceptable variety of plant
material is proposed.
       (K)   Soil Amendments Required
         Soil amendments shall be specified and used to improve the quality of
soil used as planting media for trees. This requirement applies to all
development, except for residential single-unit lots. Common areas of
subdivisions and townhouse developments are subject to the requirements of this
section.
         (1)   A registered Landscape Architect shall provide a recommended
soil amendment schedule based on the existing soils found on-site and the type
of plant material proposed. This schedule shall be included as part of the
required landscape plan submitted as part of a development plan.
         (2)   Prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy, a certified
statement shall be provided to town staff Cary Site Inspector attesting to the
fact that the soil amendment schedule was followed as specified in the approved
development plan. This statement shall be certified by a registered landscape
architect, certified arborist, or other such specialist.
      (L)   Reforestation of Cut and Fill Slopes
         Where portions of a site have been graded due to, but not limited to,
topography, cut and fill slopes associated with road and/or parking lot
construction; with transitional perimeter grading; or with the installation of
major utilities, and other similar areas, the development plan shall contain a
reforestation plan prepared by a landscape architect, a certified arborist, a
registered forester, or another such professional specialist. The reforestation
plan shall conform to the following standards:
         (1)   Loblolly Pine (Pinus taeda) seedlings shall be installed on a
staggered grid with a spacing of ten (10) feet within a row and fifteen (15)
feet between rows.
         (2)   Alternate tree species or planting arrangements may be approved
by the Planning Director in response to site-specific characteristics that
dictate such a change.
         (3)   The plantings required by this subsection shall not be subject
to the requirements of subsections (J) and (K) above.
      (M)   Separation from Utility Appurtenances
         In order to prevent conflicts and allow for appropriate maintenance,
canopy trees shall be placed at least ten (10) feet from electrical
transformers and twenty (20) feet from light poles.
   7.2.10   Allowable Modifications and Reductions
      (A)   This Section
7.2.10 provides flexibility and presents alternative ways to meet the standards
set forth in this Ordinance, while encouraging the preservation of existing
healthy vegetation and innovation in site design.
         (1)   Existing healthy vegetation and the area of land used to
maintain the vegetation may be counted toward meeting the performance criteria
for buffers, streetscapes, and vehicular use areas set out in Sections
7.2.3,
7.2.4, and
7.2.6.
         (2)   Up to a twenty (20) percent reduction in the number of parking
spaces required on the site shall be allowed to the extent that the reduction
in the amount of required pavement will preserve existing healthy trees in an
undisturbed, natural condition.
         (3)   Reduction of the buffer width may be approved, as provided
below.
            (a)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may reduce the width of
required streetscapes and buffers to no less than ten (10) feet pursuant to
this section. Buffer reductions between uses may be considered based on the use
of innovative site/building design concepts. The Zoning Board of Adjustment may
make exceptions to this minimum width for development within the Town Center
District and for reuse/redevelopment sites. Reductions in the width of
streetscapes and buffers should only be allowed when:
               (1)   At least one (1) of the following conditions exists:
                  a.   meeting the required width prevents reasonable use of
the property based on the zoning; or
                  b.   additional open space beyond that already required is
provided elsewhere on the site; and
               (2)   The modification advances the goals and purposes of the
LDO.
            The Planning Director may allow reuse/redevelopment sites to
maintain their existing buffer and streetscape widths even if such width is
less than current ordinance requirements so long as the proposed development
plan does not reduce the existing buffer or streetscape width on the site. If
existing pavement, curbs, and/or buildings are being removed from the required
buffer and streetscape widths, the Planning Director may require plantings to
reasonably meet the intent of the landscape requirements (i.e., parking lot
screening, streetscape/buffer and parking lot trees).
         (4)   An average buffer/streetscape width that equals the width of the
required buffer/streetscape may be approved, provided that all of the following
requirements are met:
            (a)   The buffer/streetscape average equals the required width {'
{'}for example, a required fifty (50) foot buffer could average a minimum of
fifty (50) feet in width.{'}'}
            (b)   In no case shall a buffer/streetscape that is adjacent to
single-unit residential development be less than thirty (30) feet in width.
            (c)   All buffer/streetscape areas that are less than the required
minimum width must include additional vegetation, walls/fencing, and/or other
measures.
         (5)   Where spacing of required streetscape trees evenly across the
frontage of the property or existing vegetation would interfere with the
visibility of features or landscapes intended specifically for public or civic
purposes such as art, monuments, memorials, and historic structures, the
required number of trees may be staggered, clustered and otherwise arranged as
deemed appropriate in order to promote optimal growth and health of the
vegetation. In addition, existing vegetation may be removed from the
streetscape for visibility of features provided that an area equal to the area
of vegetation being removed is preserved elsewhere on the site (in addition to
required buffers).
         (6)   The area used for preserving existing healthy non-champion trees
within the site may be used as credit for required perimeter non-residential
buffers and interior buffers, at a rate of one and one-half (1.5) times. For
example, if the area taken up by the preserved vegetation is one thousand two
hundred (1,200) square feet, then the applicant may deduct an area equal to one
thousand eight hundred (1,800) square feet from other required landscape/buffer
areas. However, the application of this subsection is subject to the limits
provided under Section
7.2.10. In addition, the area removed from required perimeter buffers should
not contain specimen tree stands. For purposes of this section, "area taken up
by preserved vegetation" includes the area under the tree canopies.
         (7)   Interior buffer areas may be relocated provided that the square
footage of area is relocated elsewhere on the site (preferably to save more
existing vegetation).
         (8)   The required streetscape along thoroughfares and collectors may
be reduced to ten (10) feet, and building setbacks from the streetscape to zero
(0) when buildings are placed close to the street inside Mixed Use Overlay
Districts.
      (B)   In addition to subsection (A) above, and in order to provide for
flexibility in site design and landscape requirements to preserve champion
trees, the Planning Director shall administratively approve the below
modifications in the order listed and only to the extent necessary to preserve
champion trees. Specifically, the area preserved in association with saving
champion trees may be exchanged for area used to meet the other LDO
requirements referenced below. Refer to Section
7.2.5(A) for definitions applicable to this subsection.
         (1)   The required number of parking spaces may be reduced by up to
twenty-five (25) percent;
         (2)   Linear parking lot islands may be reduced and/or eliminated;
         (3)   The area encompassed by the critical root zone of preserved
champion trees may be used to meet the community gathering space requirements;
         (4)   The area encompassed by the critical root zone of preserved
champion trees and designated as common open space may be used to meet the
bonus open space requirements within the conservation residential overlay
district without being contiguous or meeting the area size requirements;
         (5)   Residential lot lines may be created at other than substantially
right angles to other lot lines provided the lot meets all other dimensional
requirements of this ordinance and permits a reasonable building envelope for a
dwelling;
         (6)   Residential lot setbacks may be reduced up to fifty percent
(50%) when the setback is adjacent to a champion tree critical root zone area.
         (7)   The connectivity index, primary circulation standards, and the
cross-access requirements within Section
7.10.3 (A) and (C) may be modified provided the circulation pattern shall
continue to provide for the safe, controlled, and orderly flow of pedestrians
and vehicles;
         (8)   Champion trees and their critical root zones or a portion
thereof may be included within residential lots provided such inclusion permits
a reasonable building envelope for a dwelling and designated as tree protection
areas on the development plan;
         (9)   Interior non-residential buffers and interior buffers within
non-residential centers/subdivisions may be reduced to no less than ten (10)
feet or the width required to meet the planting requirements of the buffer
type, whichever is greater, provided specimen hardwood tree stands are not
adversely impacted;
         (10)   Total perimeter buffers widths adjacent to non-residential uses
or zoning districts may be reduced to no less than twenty (20) feet, provided
specimen hardwood tree stands are not adversely impacted and there is
sufficient room to plant the required buffer type;
         (11)   Buffers and streetscape areas may be used for bio-retention,
provided specimen hardwood tree stands are not adversely impacted and the
buffer is adjacent to a non-residential use or zoning district.
         (12)   Critical root zone measurement and tree protection area may be
reduced to one (1) foot from the champion tree for each inch of caliper.
         For the purpose of the allowable modifications above, the "area
encompassed by the critical root zone of preserved champion trees" also
includes the area needed to preserve an existing structure on a site, the
demolition of which would have adversely impacted the critical root zone of one
(1) or more champion trees.
      (C)   Soil Volume
         The Planning Director shall administratively approve modifications to
soil volume requirements (section
7.2.4(F)) where soil volume requirements cannot be met due to unusual planting
conditions, provided the developer or property owner provides the Town with a
certification from a certified arborist on a form approved by the Planning
Department that the modifications will not decrease the viability of the trees.
   7.2.11   Time for Installation of Required Landscaping
      (A)   Time Limit
         All landscaping, including mulching and seeding, shall be completed in
accordance with the approved development plan prior to issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy for the site, unless the Planning Director grants an
exception to meeting this requirement due to extreme heat or cold conditions.
The installation of these requirements shall comply with the required planting
standards set forth in the Town's Community_Appearance_Manual and the soil
erosion and sedimentation control provisions in Section
7.4. Installation of required landscaping (i.e., trees and shrubs) shall be
strongly discouraged during the months of April through September. The use of
alternative water source (other than public water) is encouraged to ensure
plantings are healthy after first growing season. Projects which require
installation of landscaping between April through September are required to
have a landscape agreement in place prior to the issuance of a Certificate of
Occupancy.
      (B)   Extensions and Exceptions
         The Planning Director may grant exceptions and extensions to the above
time limit in the following circumstances and under the following conditions:
         (1)   Exceptions may be granted due to unusual environmental
conditions, such as drought, ice, over-saturated soil (deep mud), or
inappropriate planting season for the plant species (plantings between April
through September are strongly discouraged), provided that the developer or
property owner provides the Town with a certification on a form approved by the
Planning Department ensuring the installation of the remaining landscape
materials. In such cases, the Planning Director may issue a conditional
Certificate of Occupancy for a period of thirty (30) to one hundred eighty
(180) days, depending on the Director's recommendation for the next earliest
planting season.
         (2)   Exceptions may be granted due to the substitution or
unavailability of plant species or acceptable plant size as specified on the
development plan, provided that the developer or property owner provides the
Town with a certification on a form approved by the Planning Department to
ensure that the unavailable plants will be installed on the property. In such
cases, the Director may issue a temporary Certificate of Occupancy for a term
of up to one hundred eighty (180) days or to the next planting season,
whichever comes first. Only twenty (20) percent of the plant materials to be
installed on the property may be delayed under this exception. All such
substitutions shall be marked on the "as-built" landscaping plans submitted to
the Planning Director, and must be signed, dated, and approved by that Director
prior to installation.
         (3)   Exceptions may be granted due to circumstances beyond the
developer's or property owner's control, such as incomplete construction or
utility work to occur in a proposed landscaped area within thirty (30) days
after expected site completion, provided that the developer or property owner
submits a letter from the utility company stating the estimated installation
date, and provides a certification on a form approved by the Planning
Department to ensure installation of the required landscaping. In such cases,
the Inspections and Permits Department may issue a temporary conditional
Certificate of Occupancy.
   7.2.12   Implementation of Landscape Plan; Inspections
      (A)   Inspections Prior to Certificate of Occupancy
         The Planning Department shall inspect the site prior to the issuance
of a permanent Certificate of Occupancy for the development and the Inspections
and Permits Department shall not issue the permanent Certificate of Occupancy
if the landscaping required under this section is not living or healthy or is
not installed in accordance with the standards set forth in this section and in
accordance with the approved development plan.
      (B)   Inspections After First Year
         The Planning Department shall inspect the site one (1) year after the
issuance of a permanent Certificate of Occupancy in order to ensure compliance
with the approved development plan and to ensure that the landscaping is
properly maintained. Failure to maintain required landscape areas (trees and
shrubs) shall result in fines according to
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance.
   7.2.13   Maintenance Responsibility, Replacement of Damaged Vegetation, and
Associated Fines
      (A)   General Maintenance Responsibility
         The owners of the property shall be responsible for the installation,
preservation, and maintenance of all planting and physical features (installed
or vegetated natural areas) in all buffers, streetscapes, vehicular use areas,
and other landscaped areas required under Sections
7.2.1 through
7.2.12 and Section
7.2.15, by zoning condition(s) or by an approved development plan or final
plat, including areas labeled on such plans or plats as undisturbed,
(hereinafter, in this Section
7.2.13, referred to collectively as "required landscape areas"), as provided
below:
         (1)   Required landscape areas shall be free of refuse and debris,
shall be treated for pest/diseases in accordance with the approved development
plan, and shall be maintained so as to prevent mulch, straw, dirt, or other
materials from washing onto streets and sidewalks.
         (2)   The owner shall take actions to protect vegetation in required
landscape areas from unnecessary damage during all facility and site
maintenance operations, including preventing parking or intrusion of equipment
or vehicles and storage of any materials in root zones.
         (3)   Plants shall be maintained in a way that does not obstruct sight
distances at roadway and drive intersections, obstruct traffic signs or
devices, and/or interfere with the use of sidewalks or pedestrian trails (see
Community_Appearance_Manual). Shrubs within existing vehicle use areas,
streetscapes, and street fronts may be pruned, but must maintain a height of at
least three (3) feet.
         (4)   Any dead, unhealthy, or missing vegetation, or vegetation
disfigured by severe pruning, shall be replaced with locally adapted vegetation
that conforms to the standards of this Ordinance and the approved development
plan.
      (B)   Removal, Damage and Pruning of Vegetation
         (1)   Removal, Disturbance, Damage and Severe Pruning Prohibited
            Vegetation in required landscape areas may not be removed,
disturbed, damaged, or severely pruned except as allowed in accordance with
Section
7.2.13(B)(2). For purposes of this Section
7.2.13, "disturbance" shall be defined as any action that results in injury or
harm to required trees, shrubbery, or other vegetation. Plants shall be
considered severely pruned if pruned in such a manner that growth of their
natural form is impaired.
         (2)   Exceptions
            Vegetation within required landscape areas may be removed or
modified with approval of a tree clearing certificate or with approval of the
Planning Director as provided below:
            (a)   Upper-story and understory trees may be pruned in accordance
with Section
7.2.4, Streetscape Landscaping to prevent damage to utilities or buildings, and
to maintain sight distance requirements.
            (b)   Where vegetation poses an immediate or imminent threat to
improved structures on private or public property, severe pruning and/or
removal of the vegetation is allowed, provided the performance standard of the
required landscape area is maintained consistent with this Ordinance.
            (c)   Where vegetation or a physical element functioning to meet
the standards of this Ordinance is severely damaged due to an unusual weather
occurrence or natural catastrophe, or other natural occurrence such as natural
death or damage by wild or domestic animals, the owner may be required to
replant if the required landscape area no longer achieves the required
performance standards of this Ordinance. The owner may have one (1) growing
season to replace or replant after reconstruction is complete. The Planning
Director shall consider the type and location of the landscape buffer or
required vegetation area as well as the propensity for natural revegetation in
making a determination on the extent of replanting requirements.
            (d)   Trees may be removed after approval of a tree clearing
certificate pursuant to Section
3.22 of this Ordinance.
      (C)   Replacement of Disturbed and Damaged Vegetation
         Where existing required vegetation has been removed, disturbed, or
damaged in violation of this Ordinance, the Planning Director shall require
revegetation of the affected area consistent with the provisions of Section
11.5.2(B)(1).
      (D)   Fines
         Fines for unauthorized removal or disturbance of, damage to, or severe
pruning of vegetation shall be assessed pursuant to Section
11.5.2(B)(2).
   7.2.14   Reserved
   7.2.15   Highway Corridor Buffer
      (A)   Purpose and Intent
         The purpose of the Highway Corridor Buffer is to provide orderly
development along US 1, I-40, I-440 and NC-540, to encourage the most
appropriate use of adjacent lands, to maintain the scenic natural beauty of the
area visible from such fully-controlled-access highway and adjacent lands, to
provide open space, and to promote the safe and efficient movement of traffic.
These highways commonly establish an image of the quality of life in the Town
for visitors and residents alike. Preservation of this natural beauty is
required to enhance trade, capital investment, tourism, and the general
welfare. All development within this buffer shall comply with the regulations
of this Section.
      (B)   Applicability
         The Highway Corridor Buffer is established along both sides of
existing and planned fully-controlled-access highways. Such highways include US
1, I-40, I-440, and NC-540. The Highway Corridor Buffer covers all lands
adjacent to the right-of-way along both sides of each such fully-controlled-
access highway.
      (C)   Buffer Requirements
         (1)   General Requirement
            A buffer strip, with a width extending one hundred (100) feet from
and parallel to the right-of-way boundary of the fully-controlled-access
highway, shall be maintained.
         (2)   Interchange Requirements
            A buffer strip width extending fifty (50) feet from and parallel to
the right- of-way for interchange ramps shall be maintained.
         (3)   Reductions
            (a)   Town Council
               The Town Council may reduce the required width of this buffer
strip as part of its approval of a concept plan or preliminary development plan
as a component of a rezoning request, taking into consideration: the topography
of the area; surrounding land uses, particularly residential uses; the actual
location of the controlled/limited access highway; the size and shape of land
parcels affected by the buffer; and whether the buffer requirement would render
the entire property unusable. In reducing the width of the buffer strip, the
Town Council shall ensure that the applicant and/or developer will provide
appropriate landscaping meeting the requirements of Section
7.2.15(C)(4) below. In no event, however, shall the Town Council reduce the
required width of the buffer strip to less than thirty (30) feet.
            (b)   Zoning Board of Adjustment
               Pursuant to the procedure in Section
3.19.1, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may consider a reduction of the required
width of this buffer strip as a component of a development plan, taking into
consideration: the topography of the area; surrounding land uses, particularly
residential uses; the actual location of the controlled/limited access highway;
the size and shape of land parcels affected by the buffer; and whether the
buffer requirement would render the entire property unusable. In reducing the
width of the buffer strip, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall ensure that the
applicant and/or developer will provide appropriate landscaping meeting the
requirements of Section
7.2.15(C)(4) below. In no event, however, shall the Zoning Board of Adjustment
reduce the required width of the buffer strip to less than thirty (30) feet
pursuant to this section.
         (4)   Maintenance of Existing Vegetation
            Within the required buffer strip, all existing vegetation shall be
maintained in a natural, undisturbed state and, unless the existing natural
vegetation provides such a buffer, the applicant and/or developer shall install
and maintain an Opaque Type A buffer meeting the requirements of Section
7.2.3(D) and (G) of this Ordinance. The owners of the property are responsible
for maintenance of the buffer and the consequences resulting from disturbance
to the buffer in accordance with Section
7.2.13, Maintenance Responsibility, Replacement of Damaged Vegetation, and
Associated Fines. If the developer caused or is responsible for such
disturbance of the buffer, and the developer is not the owner of the buffer,
then the developer shall also be responsible for the consequences of such
disturbance in accordance with Section
7.2.13.
         (5)   Development within Buffer
            No development shall be allowed within the required buffer strip
except as provided for in Section
7.2.3(H)(1) and (H)(2).
      (D)   Variances
         The required width of the buffer strip may be reduced to less than
thirty (30) feet pursuant to Section
3.20 (Variances).
      (E)   Actions of Government or Public Utilities
         The law may permit the width of this buffer strip to be reduced
through the action(s) of a unit of government or Public Utility (as such term
is defined by G.S. 62-3), or may permit development within the buffer by a unit
of government or Public Utility, such as but not limited to construction of
highways or utility transmission facilities. In such situations, the action to
reduce the buffer width or engage in development within the buffer by the
government or Public Utility may not be subject to requirements of the LDO,
including review or approval by the Zoning Board of Adjustment. See LDO Section
1.6.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05;
Ord. No. 06-009, adopted 4-27-06; eff. 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord.
No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-01, 2-
12-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-02, 1-28-10; Ord. No.
2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-03, 7-14-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-
17-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-05, 12-15-11; Ord. No. 12-LDO-01, 2-23-12; Ord. No.
2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-04, 9-26-
13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-07, 12-19-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No.
2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-04, 8-28-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-
21-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord.
No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-02,
3-30-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No.
2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-
24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-01, 1-13-22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No.
2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-
16-23)
7.3   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
   7.3.1   Purpose and Definitions
      (A)   This section is intended to protect water quality for present and
future residents of the Town and surrounding regions by limiting the amount of
pollutants, including but not limited to nitrogen and phosphorus, in stormwater
runoff. Specific objectives include: control of nitrogen and phosphorus export
from development, control of peak stormwater runoff, and the use of best
management practices.
      (B)   For the purpose of this section
7.3, the following definitions shall apply:
         LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE
         A site where multiple separate and distinct development activities may
be taking place at different times on different schedules but governed by a
single development plan regardless of ownership of the parcels. Information
that may be used to determine a "common plan of development" include plats,
blueprints, marketing plans, contracts, building permits, public notices or
hearings, zoning requests, and infrastructure development plans. Common Plan of
Development is synonymous with “Larger Common Plan of Development”.
         REDEVELOPMENT
         Any development on previously-developed land.
   7.3.2   Nutrient Reduction Requirements
      (A)   Nitrogen and Phosphorus Control Plan Required
         For purposes of this section, nitrogen and phosphorus control plans
shall be required for the following:
         (1)   Any activity that, alone or as part of a larger common plan of
development or sale, disturbs greater than one (1) acre of land in order to
establish, expand, or modify a single-unit or duplex residential development or
a recreational facility.
         (2)   Any activity that, alone or as part of a larger common plan of
development or sale, disturbs greater than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet
of land in order to establish, expand or modify a multifamily residential
development or a commercial, industrial or institutional facility.
         (3)   Any redevelopment alone or as part of a larger common plan of
development or sale in order to establish, expand, or modify a multifamily
residential development or a commercial, industrial or institutional facility
that increases built upon area and has an existing Stormwater Management Plan
is subject to this rule regardless of disturbed area.
         (4)   Any grubbing, stump removal, and/or grading activity that
disturbs greater than twelve thousand (12,000) square feet.
         (5)   Demolition and subsequent construction upon a previously
developed site.
      (B)   Exemptions
         (1)   For purposes of this section, development or land disturbance
shall not include agriculture, mining, or forestry activities.
         (2)   Existing development as of March 1, 2001 in the Neuse River
Basin, is not subject to the requirements of this Section. Expansions to
existing development must meet the requirements of this Section. The impervious
surface area of the existing development is not required to be included in the
nitrogen load attributed to the site expansion. All calculations must use the
approved accounting tool.
         (3)   Redevelopment and/or rebuilding activity which results in no net
increase in the built-upon area from that that previously existed and which
provides equal or greater stormwater control than that provided by previous
development.
         (4)   In the Cape Fear River Basin any proposed new development that
would replace or expand structures or improvements that existed as of December
1, 2001, and that would not result in a net increase in built-upon area shall
not be required to meet the nutrient loading targets or high-density
requirements, in accordance with Section
4.4.6(D), except to the extent that it shall provide stormwater control at
least equal to the previous development.
      (C)   Nitrogen and Phosphorus Export Standards
         (1)   Any activity that is required to submit a nitrogen control plan
in the Neuse River Basin must achieve a nitrogen export of less than or equal
to three and six-tenths (3.6) pounds per acre per year. Any activity that is
required to submit a nitrogen and phosphorus control plan in the Cape Fear
River Basin must achieve an export rate of less than or equal to two and two-
tenths (2.2) pounds per acre per year of nitrogen and eighty-two hundredths
(0.82) pounds per acre per year of phosphorus in the Upper New Hope and four
and four-tenths (4.4) pounds per acre per year of nitrogen and seventy-eight
hundredths (0.78) pounds per acre per year in the Lower New Hope. If the
development contributes greater than three and six-tenths (3.6) pounds per acre
per year of nitrogen in the Neuse River Basin, greater than two and two-tenths
(2.2) pounds per acre per year of nitrogen and/or eighty-two hundredths (0.82)
pounds per acre per year of phosphorus in the Upper New Hope, or greater than
four and four-tenths (4.4) pounds per acre per year of nitrogen and/or seventy-
eight hundredths (0.78) pounds per acre per year of phosphorus in the Lower New
Hope, then the table below explains the options available depending whether the
development is residential or non-residential.
         (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the Cape Fear River Basin,
redevelopment that would replace or expand existing structures or improvements
and would result in a net increase in built-upon area shall have the option of
either meeting the loading standards identified in section
7.3.2 (D)(1) or meeting a loading rate that achieves the following nutrient
loads compared to the existing development: in the Upper New Hope Watershed,
thirty-five (35) percent reduction in nitrogen and five (5) percent reduction
in phosphorus; and in the Lower New Hope Watershed, no increase for nitrogen or
phosphorus.
         (3)   Development subject to this section 7.3 shall attain a maximum
nitrogen loading rate on-site of six (6) pounds per acre per year for single-
unit, detached and duplex residential development and ten (10) pounds per acre
per year for other development, including multi-family residential, commercial
and industrial and shall meet any requirements for engineered stormwater
controls otherwise imposed by the LDO. An applicant may achieve the additional
reductions in nitrogen and phosphorus loading required by this section by
making offset payments to the North Carolina Division of Mitigation Services
contingent upon the acceptance of payments by that program. An applicant may
propose other offset measures, including providing his or her own offsite
offset or utilizing a private seller. All offset measures permitted by this
ordinance shall meet the requirements of 15A NCAC 02B .0273 (2) through (4) and
15A NCAC 02B .0714.
 
TABLE 7.3-1: NITROGEN/PHOSPHORUS EXPORT REDUCTION OPTIONS
                                        Commercial/Industrial/Institutional/
Residential                             Local Government/Multifamily
                                        Residential
If the computed export is less than 6.0 If the computed export is less than
lbs/ac/yr, then the owner may either:   10.0 lbs/ac/yr, then the owner may
                                        either:
Install SCMs to remove enough nitrogen  Install SCMs to remove enough nitrogen
to bring the development down to 3.6    to bring the development down to 3.6
lbs/ac/yr in the Neuse River Basin.     lbs/ac/yr in the Neuse River Basin.
Install SCMs to bring the nitrogen down Install SCMs to bring the nitrogen down
to 2.2 lbs/ac/yr and phosphorus to 0.82 to 2.2 lbs/ac/yr and phosphorus to 0.82
lbs/ac/yr in the Upper New Hope and the lbs/ac/yr in the Upper New Hope and the
nitrogen down to 4.4 lbs/ac/yr and the  nitrogen down to 4.4 lbs/ac/yr and the
phosphorus to 0.78 lbs/ac/yr Lower New  phosphorus to 0.78 lbs/ac/yr Lower New
Hope in the Cape Fear River Basin.      Hope in the Cape Fear River Basin.
Pay a one-time offset payment to bring  Pay a one-time offset payment to bring
the nitrogen down to the 3.6 lbs/ac/yr  the nitrogen down to the 3.6 lbs/ac/yr
in the Neuse River Basin. Pay a one-    in the Neuse River Basin. Pay a one-
time offset payment to bring the        time offset payment to bring the
nitrogen down to 2.2 lbs/ac/yr and      nitrogen down to 2.2 lbs/ac/yr and
phosphorus to 0.82 lbs/ac/yr in the     phosphorus to 0.82 lbs/ac/yr in the
Upper New Hope and the nitrogen down to Upper New Hope and the nitrogen down to
4.4 lbs/ac/yr and the phosphorus to     4.4 lbs/ac/yr and the phosphorus to
0.78 lbs/ac/yr Lower New Hope in the    0.78 lbs/ac/yr Lower New Hope in the
Cape Fear River Basin.                  Cape Fear River Basin.
Do a combination of SCMs and offset     Do a combination of SCMs and offset
payment to achieve a 3.6 lbs/ac/yr      payment to achieve a 3.6 lbs/ac/yr
export in the Neuse, 2.2 lbs/ac/yr      export in the Neuse, 2.2 lbs/ac/yr
nitrogen and 0.82 lbs/ac/yr phosphorus  nitrogen and 0.82 lbs/ac/yr phosphorus
in the Upper New Hope and 4.4 lbs/ac/yr in the Upper New Hope and 4.4 lbs/ac/yr
nitrogen and 0.78 lbs/ac/yr phosphorus  nitrogen and 0.78 lbs/ac/yr phosphorus
in the Lower New Hope.                  in the Lower New Hope.
If the computed nitrogen export is      If the computed nitrogen export is
greater than 6.0 lbs/ac/yr, the owner   greater than 10.0 lbs/ac/yr, the owner
must use on-site or regional SCMs to    must use on-site or regional SCMs to
bring the development's export down to  bring the development's export down to
6.0 lbs/ac/yr. Then, the owner may use  10.0 lbs/ac/yr. Then, the owner may use
one of the three options above to       one of the three options above to
achieve the reduction between 6.0 and   achieve the reduction between 10.0 and
3.6 lb/ac/yr in the Neuse River Basin,  3.6 lb/ac/yr in the Neuse River Basin,
2.2 lbs/ac/yr in the Upper New Hope or  2.2 lbs/ac/yr in the Upper New Hope or
4.4 lbs/ac/yr in the Lower New Hope of  4.4 lbs/ac/yr in the Lower New Hope of
the Cape Fear River Basin.              the Cape Fear River Basin.
 
            Once it has been determined that an offset payment is forthcoming,
the owner shall furnish the Town with evidence that the payment for the
reductions in nitrogen and/or phosphorus has been made prior to the Town's
issuance of a grading permit.
         (4)   The nitrogen and phosphorus export standards in this ordinance
are supplemental to, not replacements for, stormwater standards otherwise
required by federal, state or local law, including without limitation any
riparian buffer requirements applicable to the location of the development.
This includes, without limitation, the riparian buffer protection requirements
of 15A NCAC 2B .0267,.0268 and .0714.
      (D)   Calculation of Nitrogen and Phosphorus Export
         (1)   The developer shall determine the need for engineered stormwater
controls to meet the loading rate targets in the Cape Fear River Basin and
Neuse by using the most current approved accounting tool for nutrient loading.
         (2)   Neuse River buffers and Jordan Lake Buffers required by the
Department of Environmental Quality may not be used for compliance with
nutrient reduction requirements; however, any portion of Zone 1, Zone 2, or
Zone 3 UTB may be claimed as Protected Forest in the approved accounting tool
if all the following are met:
            (a)   No easements, including but not limited to Public or Private
Utilities, Retaining Walls, Access, Greenway, Drainage, or Stormwater Control
Structure and Access easements, may be located within the area claimed as
protected forest.
            (b)   The area claimed as protected forest must be recorded as
Permanently Protected on the plat.
            (c)   Allowable activities within the Protected Forest are limited
to those related to removal of nuisance and invasive and diseased or dying
vegetation or in the interest of protecting human safety or property damage.
   7.3.3   Town of Cary NPDES Phase II Post Construction Runoff Controls
      To meet the requirements of the Town of Cary NPDES Phase II Permit any
new development or redevelopment as of July 1, 2005, not exempted pursuant to
Section
7.3.2(B) must meet either the low density or high density option requirements
described below and in the Neuse Rules. New development or redevelopment in the
Swift Creek or Jordan Lake Watersheds must meet the requirements of Section
4.4.6 of the LDO. For purposes of this Section 7.3.3, impervious surface area
shall be calculated pursuant to Section
4.4.6(D)(2) of the LDO and the provisions of Section
4.4.6(G) of the LDO shall apply to all engineered stormwater control measures.
      (A)   Low Density Projects, having no more than two (2) dwelling units
per acre or no more than twenty-four (24) percent impervious surface area for
all residential and non-residential development, shall transport stormwater
runoff by vegetated conveyances to the maximum extent practicable.
      (B)   High Density Projects, having more than two (2) dwelling units per
acre or more than twenty- four (24) percent impervious surface area for all
residential and non-residential development, shall implement stormwater control
measures that comply with each of the following standards:
         (1)   The stormwater control measures shall control and treat the
difference between the pre-development and post-development conditions for the
one (1) year twenty-four (24) hour storm. Runoff volume drawdown shall be a
minimum of twenty-four (24) hours, but not more than one hundred twenty (120)
hours.
         (2)   Stormwater control measures shall be designed to achieve a
minimum of eighty-five (85) percent average annual removal for Total Suspended
Solids (TSS).
   7.3.4   Peak Runoff Control
   There shall be no net increase in peak stormwater run-off flow leaving a
development from pre-development conditions for the one (1)-year design storm.
New developments are required to minimize damage to subject streams caused by
storm flows.
      (A)   Calculation of Peak Flow
         Acceptable methodologies for computing pre- and post-development
conditions for the one (1)-year design storm include:
         (1)   The Rational Method (used when the drainage area is two hundred
(200) acres or less)
         (2)   The Peak Discharge Method as described in USDA Technical Release
Number 55 (TR-55) (drainage area is two thousand (2,000) acres or less)
         (3)   The Putnam Method (drainage area is greater than two thousand
(2,000) acres)
         (4)   USGS Regression Equations, where applicable
            The same method must be used for both the pre- and post-development
conditions.
      (B)   Exceptions to Peak Flow Control
         Developments with less than ten (10) percent net increase in peak flow
of the one (1)-year design storm are not required to control peak flow for the
one (1)-year storm from the site. However, if the net increase in peak flow
from the new development is greater than ten (10) percent, the entire net
increase from pre-development one (1)-year design storm peak flow must be
controlled.
   7.3.5   Maintenance of Stormwater Control Measures
   All best management practices that are implemented to achieve nitrogen or
phosphorus reduction and flow attenuation will require complete legal
documentation and a maintenance plan and must comply with all requirements of
Section
4.4.6(G), Engineered Stormwater Control Measures.
   7.3.6   Variance
      To the extent any state or federal law or regulations requires the Town
to establish a variance procedure for any requirement of this section
7.3, the variance procedure established in Section
4.4.6(I) of the LDO shall be utilized.
(Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 05-015, 9-8-05; Ord. No. 06-009, adopted 4-
27-06; eff. 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08;
Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-
LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19;
Ord. No. 2019-LDO-02, 11-21-19; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2022-
LDO-03, 10-27-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-02, 3-23-23)
7.4   RESERVED
7.5   RESERVED
7.6   NUISANCE AND HAZARD CONTROL STANDARDS
   7.6.1   Purpose and Applicability
   This section is intended to ensure that industrial, research, and other
business activities are established and maintained with proper appearance from
streets and adjoining properties, and to ensure that such activities are good
neighbors to adjoining properties by controlling the emission of noise, odors,
glare, vibration, smoke, dust, liquid wastes, radiation, radioactivity, and
similar pollutants. Accordingly, this section states the performance standards
and conditions with which the Town expects the construction and operation of
industrial, research, and other business activities to comply. These
performance standards, like all other provisions of this Ordinance, are
continuing obligations, and all industrial, research, and other business uses
will be expected to operate in compliance with these standards. Any land use
that fails to comply with these standards shall be in violation of this
Ordinance.
   7.6.2   General Standards and Measures for Compliance
      (A)   All uses shall be conducted so as to preclude any nuisance, hazard,
or commonly-recognized offensive condition or characteristics of the use,
including the creation or emission on other properties of dust, gas, smoke,
noise, fumes, odors, vibrations, particulate matter, chemical compounds, toxic
matter, fire, explosions, electrical disturbance, heat, glare, or excessive
night illumination. At any time before or after a building is used or occupied,
the Planning Director may require that adequate control measures be provided in
accordance with the requirements or standards of the appropriate state or
federal government agency responsible for regulating that condition or
pollutant, in order to protect the public health, safety, comfort, convenience,
and general welfare from any such nuisance, hazard, condition, or pollutant.
      (B)   Federal and State environmental regulations may also apply to one
or more of the features governed by the standards in Section
7.6.3 below. The intent is for the standards of this section to supplement and
complement, not supersede or replace, any applicable Federal and State
regulations. If any standard herein conflicts with an applicable Federal or
State standard, then the Federal or State standard shall control.
   7.6.3   Performance Standards
      (A)   Landscaping
         All required front yards, "side yards, and rear yards shall be open,
landscaped green areas or left in their natural state. Where landscaped, such
yards shall be planted attractively with lawn, trees, shrubs, and the like in
accordance with the development plan which the Town has approved for the use.
Any areas left in their natural state shall be properly maintained in a sightly
and well-kept condition. Parking areas also shall be maintained in a sightly
and well-kept condition.
      (B)   Noise
         Noise shall be muffled so as not to become objectionable at or beyond
the property line due to intermittent beat frequency, shrillness, or intensity.
      (C)   Odors
         Odors from any use shall not exceed the standards established by the
State of North Carolina.
      (D)   Glare
         Direct or reflected glare, such as from floodlights or high
temperature processes, and as differentiated from general illumination, shall
not be visible at or beyond any property line.
      (E)   Smoke
         Smoke emissions shall not exceed the maximum limits established by the
State of North Carolina.
      (F)   Dust and Other Particulate Matter
         Solid or liquid particulate matter shall not be emitted at any point
in a concentration exceeding three-tenths (0.3) grains per cubic foot of the
conveying gas or air.
      (G)   Gases
         Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in concentrations or
amounts that are noxious, toxic, corrosive, or in excess of any applicable
maximum limits established by State or Federal regulations.
      (H)   Fire and Explosion Hazards
         All operations shall be carried out in accordance with the Town Fire
Code and with reasonable precautions against fire and explosive hazards.
      (I)   Radiation and Radioactivity
         Operations shall cause no radiation or radioactivity at or beyond any
property line that exceeds any applicable standards or regulations established
by the U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission or by other federal or state
agencies or laws.
      (J)   Electrical Radiation
         Any electrical radiation shall not at any point adversely affect or
interfere with any operations or equipment other than those of the person,
company, or other entity emitting the radiation. Avoidance of adverse effects
or interference from electrical radiation by appropriate single or mutual
scheduling of operations is permitted.
      (K)   Wastewater and Industrial Wastes
         All wastewater and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed in
such a manner as to comply with the water quality standards applicable to the
classification assigned to the receiving waters by the State of North Carolina.
Approval by the State of North Carolina of all plans for waste disposal
facilities shall be required before the issuance of any building permit. All
uses connected to the Town's sanitary sewer system also shall comply with all
applicable requirements established in
Chapter 19, Article IV of the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Cary.
      (L)   Underground and Above-Ground Storage Tanks
         All storage tanks which are placed above or below the ground shall be
designed and installed so as to prevent the infiltration of their contents into
groundwater or surface waters, and to comply with all applicable State
regulations promulgated by the North Carolina Department of Health, Environment
and Natural Resources.
   7.6.4   Effects of Concurrent Operations on Different Properties
   The sum total of the effects of concurrent operations on two (2) or more
parcels measured at any property line shall not be greater or more offensive to
the senses than the standards contained in this section. Compliance with the
provisions of this section may occur by independent or mutual changes in
operational levels, scheduling of operations, and other adjustments.
   7.6.5   Determination of Violation of Performance Standards
      (A)   The Planning Director shall have the authority to determine
violations of the standards set forth in this section. The procedures set forth
in this section shall be followed prior to the initiation of any enforcement
action under
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance.
      (B)   Where determination of a violation of these standards requires the
use of personnel or instruments not available to the Town, and a violation
exists in the opinion of the Planning Director, the following procedures shall
be followed:
         (1)   The Planning Director shall give written notice of the alleged
violation by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
owner or occupant of the property. The notice shall describe the alleged
violation, state the reasons why the Director believes there is a violation,
and require that the owner or occupant answer the allegation within thirty (30)
days of receiving the notice.
         (2)   After the thirty (30)-day period passes, if a dispute still
exists between the Director and the alleged violator regarding the existence of
violation, then the alleged violator may appeal to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. The Director shall then transmit to the Zoning Board of Adjustment
a copy of the notice given to the alleged violator, along with any
recommendations as to alterations, modifications, or securing the services of a
consultant to determine whether a standard has been violated. The Zoning Board
of Adjustment then shall make a determination as to whether a violation exists.
         (3)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustment finds the alleged violation to
exist, then the costs of making that determination shall be charged to the
owner or occupant of the property responsible for the violation. If the Zoning
Board of Adjustment determines that no violation exists, then the Town shall
cover the costs of making the determination.
         (4)   If a violation is not removed or corrected as directed by the
Zoning Board of Adjustment, then the Director may:
            (a)   Recommend to the Zoning Board of Adjustment that any
occupancy permits previously issued to the violator be voided and that the
operator be required to cease operation until the violation is removed,
corrected, or otherwise remedied; and/or
            (b)   Initiate further enforcement actions under
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-28-21; Ord. No. 2023-
LDO-04, 11-16-23)
7.7   BUILDING DESIGN STANDARDS
   7.7.1   Purpose and Intent
   The review and approval of building design is critical to upholding and
promoting high quality development throughout the Town. The purpose of this
section is to ensure that proposed developments are designed in a way that
promotes compatibility throughout the Town, including within residential
developments, within non-residential centers, and between residential and non-
residential areas. Specifically, the intent of this Section is as follows:
      (A)   To encourage high quality appearance for developments,
thoroughfares, and streets;
      (B)   To provide proper standards that ensure a high quality appearance
for Cary, and promote good design while also allowing individuality,
creativity, and artistic expression;
      (C)   To encourage the proper use of the land by promoting an appropriate
balance between the built environment and preservation/conservation of open
space (note that some places may be appropriate for more urban type development
and less open space, such as the downtown and other areas designated in the
Comprehensive Plan);
      (D)   To preserve and improve property values and protect private and
public investment; and
      (E)   To preserve and protect the identity and character of Cary, and to
enhance the business economy.
   7.7.2   Applicability
      Except for structures subject to regulation under the North Carolina
Residential Code for One- and Two-Family Dwellings, all projects requiring
submission of a development plan under Section
3.9 of this Ordinance shall comply with the requirements of this Section. Such
projects also must comply with the Town's Community_Appearance_Manual and the
Site Design Standards which provide examples and illustrations of concepts
discussed in this Section.
   7.7.3   General Requirements
      (A)   Development within Non-Residential Centers
         All proposed buildings within non-residential centers shall be
designed to be consistent within the center in terms of architectural design,
exterior building materials, colors, and arrangement of buildings and other
features. A Statement of Architectural Compatibility (SAC) shall be required
prior to the approval of the first development plan within the development; see
Section
7.7.4.
      (B)   Development Outside of Non-Residential Centers
         For all other non-residential development located outside of non-
residential centers (e.g., subdivisions, buildings on "stand alone" parcels,
modifications to existing developments, and infill development), the building
design(s) shall be compatible within the subdivision or with adjacent buildings
in close proximity to the proposed building. In such cases, a Statement of
Architectural Compatibility is not required.
      (C)   Building Placement
         Buildings shall comply with the following standards and those
provisions that address building orientation, arrangement, mass, and other
elements. All development plans must also follow the provisions in the Town's
Community_Appearance_Manual and Site Design Standards.
         (1)   All buildings must front a street, park, open space, or
pedestrian way. A street may be an external roadway adjacent to a property, or
a public or private street within a site. Buildings with one (1) double-loaded
bay of parking between them and a street count as being sited to front a
street. In addition, in non-residential centers, ten (10) acres or more in size
within Mixed Use Overlay Districts, a majority of the tenant spaces forty
thousand (40,000) square feet or less must be located on a double fronted
street with no more than one hundred eighty (180) feet between buildings. For
infill or redevelopment sites, buildings may front adjacent public streets in
lieu of the double-loaded requirement.
         (2)   Drive-throughs with roof structures or canopies shall be
oriented away from major roadways. Cantilevered awnings or metal canopies are
acceptable as part of a drive through.
         (3)   Infill development should have the same predominate setbacks and
orientation of adjacent existing buildings, unless there is an opportunity to
establish a new predominate street-front orientation.
         (4)   Buildings on adjacent outparcels must be grouped adjacent to one
another in groups of two (2) or more. Grouped outparcel buildings must be sited
no more than one hundred (100) feet apart.
      (D)   Review Considerations
         The approval authority may consider alternative colors and designs for
buildings provided that they meet the intent of this section. The approval
authority should consider criteria such as the intensity of the colors, the
extent of the design difference and the spatial separation of each building.
   7.7.4   Statement of Architectural Compatibility (SAC)
      A Statement of Architectural Compatibility (SAC) shall be included with
all development plans for buildings within a non-residential center, and shall
be submitted with the first development plan submission (see Section
3.9) on the application form specified in the Community Appearance Manual. The
Planning Director shall consider the SAC as part of the development plan
review. The SAC shall include:
      (A)   Primary physical characteristics including predominant color(s),
exterior materials and architectural features;
      (B)   Primary landscape theme (general, not specific);
      (C)   Building height and placement;
      (D)   Lighting elements (general);
      (E)   Other elements which may be relevant to a specific development and
how they are compatible with the adjacent sites; and
      (F)   Master Sign Plan (general).
         The SAC shall designate the unifying elements that are to be
incorporated within the entire project (including any outparcel) and
specifically how these elements are to be used.
   7.7.5   Criteria for Review of SAC
      (A)   Primary Color(s)
         A maximum of three (3) predominant colors shall be designated as a
primary unifying element (this does not include accent colors). Flexibility may
be used to allow additional colors and/or a range of predominant colors
provided that these colors are in the same family of colors (similar to each
other). Any color specified as a primary unifying element shall be dominant in
the building facade. Color "samples" shall be provided to the staff at the time
of development plan review. Colored renderings may be required, but shall not
be a substitute for this requirement. In addition to listing the color(s), the
SAC shall also describe how and where the color will be used. It is recognized
that the same color on a different material may not match exactly.
      (B)   Accent Colors
         These colors may be used as a secondary unifying element provided they
are used throughout the development. Non-illuminated accent bands (e.g.
canopies with gas stations and the roof of fast food buildings on roofs,
canopies, or other features shall be one (1) of the primary colors of the
development or be white or earth tone in color.
      (C)   Exterior Materials
         The dominant material or combination of materials shall be defined.
For each building material selected, the color of that material shall also be
defined.
      (D)   Architectural Features
         Architectural features refer to a number of building elements that are
repeated throughout the development. These include, but are not limited to:
roof lines, canopies, building ornamentation, patterns, and building form. Any
architectural feature designated as a unifying element throughout all buildings
shall contribute to the identity of the development and not be just a minor
architectural detail.
         (1)   Use of Awnings
            No awnings/canopies shall be internally lit. All awnings/canopies
shall utilize the same design and color throughout the development.
         (2)   Roof Type
            Outparcels may use a different roof type (e.g., pitch vs. flat)
than the main buildings within centers provided that the building on the
outparcel is a size where the different roof type does not dominate the center
and/or the roof type has a tie to the other buildings (e.g., mansard roofs).
         (3)   Detached Canopies
            Detached canopies are subject to the provisions of the Community
Appearance Manual, including color and roof pitch requirements.
      (E)   Landscaping
         Plant materials may be used in such a way as to reinforce
compatibility depending on the type of plant materials selected and their
placement on the site. This previous statement is not intended to limit
creative landscape designs within the center, but to promote general
compatibility in materials. Drought tolerant or native species (including
trees, shrubs, and turf grasses) that do not require extensive watering are
strongly recommended.
      (F)   Setbacks and Building Placement
         The use of common setbacks and building orientation from a street
right-of-way may be an appropriate unifying element where a number of
freestanding buildings occur within the development.
      (G)   Building Height
         A standard height among a group of buildings can usually tie the
buildings together visually.
      (H)   Lighting
         A consistent type of lighting fixture repeated throughout the
development as well as a similar wattage, height, type of light produced and/or
color of light are to serve as a unifying element. Light pole height, wattage,
pole/fixture/light color should all be the same.
   7.7.6   Recording Requirements
      Where non-residential development plans or residential multi-family
development plans are approved, no lots shall be recorded without noting the
general requirements for architectural compatibility on the maps for
recordation. Owners of properties with non-residential development plans which
include outparcel lots are strongly recommended to record architectural
compatibility covenants which refer to these requirements on record in the
Planning Department. These covenants shall run with the land and be
administrated by a property owners' association or similar organization.
   7.7.7   Amendment Process
      (A)   The SAC may be amended if the amendments are signed by the owner of
the non-residential center or overall project and approved by the Planning
Director. The Director shall review the amendments based on their ability to
meet the intent of this Ordinance. The SAC for the main structures of the
development shall be approved as part of the first development plan within a
development.
      (B)   Any revision to the SAC that involves a change in the primary
characteristics of an existing development (such as a change in color or
addition of a canopy) shall be reviewed and approved by those with the
authority to approve plans and all owners of property falling under the SAC
governance. Any change in primary or secondary characteristics shall be
implemented comprehensively throughout the entire development including
outparcels within a reasonable time frame (i.e., less than one year unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Director). Any approved changes shall meet
the criteria of Section
7.7.5.
(Ord. No. 06-009, adopted 4-27-06; eff. 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08;
Ord. No. 2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-
01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23; Ord.
No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-16-23)
7.8   OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
   7.8.1   Purpose
   In order to relieve traffic congestion in the streets, to minimize any
detrimental effects of off-street parking areas on adjacent properties, to
ensure the proper and uniform development of parking areas throughout the Town,
and to support opportunities for development and redevelopment of businesses in
the portions the town center with the most intensive development potential,
off-street parking and loading spaces for each land use shall be provided in
accordance with the standards established in this section.
   7.8.2   Off-Street Parking Space Requirements
      (A)   Applicability
         (1)   Except as provided in Section
7.8.2(A)(2) below, each use or establishment within the Town shall initially
and continually provide sufficient off-street parking spaces, in compliance
with the requirements of this section, for all residents, employees, customers,
visitors, and others who may spend time at the use or establishment.
         (2)   Off-street parking shall not be required for existing and new
non-residential uses within the HMXD sub-district of the Town Center zoning
district. However, where off-street parking spaces are provided, they shall be
considered "Required Parking Spaces" for the purpose of determining the
proportionate number of required handicapped parking spaces per Section
7.8.2(F).
      (B)   Effect on New and Existing Uses
         (1)   Parking Spaces Required
            Permanent off-street parking spaces shall be provided as specified
by this section for all uses occupying land or facilities (or portions
thereof). Such parking spaces may be provided in a parking garage. The
requirements of this section shall be met:
            (a)   At the time a Certificate of Occupancy is issued for a
building or structure in which an approved use takes place;
            (b)   At the time any principal or ancillary use or building is
enlarged or increased in capacity, such as by adding dwelling units, guest
rooms, seats, floor area, or other units of measurement used in Table
7.8-1, which follows; or
            (c)   Before conversion from one (1) type of use or occupancy to
another, or any change in the manner in which the use is constructed that would
result in additional parking requirements.
         (2)   Certification
            Each development plan that is submitted for approval shall include
information as to the number, location, and dimensions of all off-street
parking and loading spaces and the means of ingress and egress to such spaces.
This information shall be illustrated in sufficient detail to indicate whether
the requirements of this Section are met. In those cases where no development
plan is required, the applicant must show that the number of parking spaces and
the design and construction of all parking areas meet the requirements of this
Section in order to receive a Certificate of Occupancy.
         (3)   Timing of Construction
            (a)   Except as provided in paragraph (B)(2) above, all parking
areas required under this Section shall be completed prior to the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy for the use or uses that they serve.
            (b)   Parking areas for phased development projects shall be
provided in accordance with Table
7.8-1.
      (C)   Computation of Off-Street Parking Requirements
         (1)   Calculations
            When measurements of the number of required spaces result in
fractions, the space requirements shall be rounded upward to the next highest
whole number.
         (2)   Different Use Areas
            Except as provided for in this chapter, parking shall be calculated
separately for each different use area in a building or on a site, including
all ancillary uses.
         (3)   On-Street Parking
            Except as provided for in this chapter, on-street parking within
public or private streets, driveways, or drives, shall not be used to satisfy
the off-street parking requirements prescribed by this section, except for
townhouse developments. Townhouses may count delineated, on-street parking
spaces within the development towards their visitor parking requirements.
         (4)   Commercial Parking Maximums
            (a)   For uses classified as commercial, the number of spaces shown
in
Table 7.8-1 shall be considered the maximum number of surface spaces allowed
for such uses for the purpose of reducing unnecessary/rarely-used parking and
decreasing the amount of impervious surface on sites.
            (b)   Parking spaces provided within a parking deck or other
parking structure shall not count toward the maximum parking requirement. For
the purposes of this subsection, a parking structure includes any structure
that provides parking vertically on more than one (1) level or that provides
parking underneath a building that has occupied floor(s) above the parking
level.
            (c)   As part of the review and approval of any procedure set forth
in
Chapter 3, the Planning Director may approve an increase in the maximum number
of surface parking spaces of up to thirty (30) percent only if the additional
surface parking is necessary to satisfy the parking expected for the use, based
on factors including, but not limited to, the number of employees per square
foot; the number of trips generated by the use, and the time of day when the
use generates the most trips.
            (d)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may approve an increase in the
maximum number of surface parking spaces above thirty (30) percent only if it
finds, after conducting a quasi-judicial hearing, that the increase advances
the goals and purposes of this Ordinance and is necessary to satisfy the demand
for parking expected for the use based on factors including, but not limited
to, the number of employees per square foot; the number of trips generated by
the use; and the time of day when the use generates the most trips.
         (5)   Parking Based on Seating
            When requirements use seating as a unit of measurement, all
calculations shall be based on the design capacity of the areas used for
seating.
         (6)   Parking Based on Floor Area
            Except as provided for in this Section, when requirements use
amount of square footage in buildings as a unit of measurement, all
calculations shall be based on gross floor area .
         (7)   Parking Based on Students, Staff, and Occupants
            Except as provided for in this chapter, when requirements use
number of students, staff, or occupants as a unit of measurement, all
calculations shall be based on the maximum enrollment, the largest number of
persons working on any single shift, or the maximum fire-rated capacity,
whichever is applicable and results in the greater number of required spaces.
         (8)   Residential Parking
            (a)   Driveways may be used to satisfy minimum on-site parking
requirements, provided that sufficient space is available to prevent vehicle
encroachment onto sidewalk and/or into adjoining vehicular travel lanes.
            (b)   All parking required by Table
7.8-1 shall be located directly at the dwelling unit for which the parking is
intended, or not more than two hundred (200) feet away from the dwelling unit.
Adequate off street pedestrian access shall be provided between the required
parking space(s) and the dwelling unit. With appropriate justification, this
distance may be increased by the Planning Director.
            (c)   Visitor Parking.  Visitor parking shall be installed in
accordance with Section 7.8.2(G).
               Visitor parking for townhouses shall not be more than three
(300) feet from the dwelling unit(s) for which it is provided to serve. These
spaces may be provided via delineated on-street or off-street parking spaces.
            (d)   Parking for single-unit and duplex dwelling units shall be
considered an accessory use subject to requirements of Section
5.3.4(K).
         (9)   Parking for Unlisted Uses
            Parking requirements for uses not specifically listed in Table
7.8-1 shall be determined by the Planning Director based on the requirements
for the closest comparable use, as well as on the particular parking demand and
trip generation characteristics of the proposed use. The Planning Director may
alternately require the submittal of a parking demand study that justifies
estimates of parking demand based on the recommendations of the Institute of
Traffic Engineers (ITE), and includes relevant data collected from uses or
combinations of uses that are the same or comparable to the proposed use in
terms of density, scale, bulk, area, type of activity, and location.
         (10)   Unimpeded Parking
            Generally, no parking spaces shall be located so as to require the
moving of any vehicle on the premises in order to enter or leave any other
space. Notwithstanding the above, the Planning Director may allow stacking
spaces provided for auto-related uses to count toward the minimum required
parking, as long as such spaces are not part of areas required for site ingress
or egress, or areas intended for fueling.
      (D)   Required Off-Street Parking Spaces
         (1)   Schedule "A"
            Unless otherwise expressly stated in this Ordinance, off-street
parking spaces shall be provided in accordance with Table
7.8-1. Off-street parking spaces for uses within the Town Center District shall
be provided according to Section
6.1.3 of this Ordinance. For uses classified as commercial, the number of motor
vehicle spaces shown on the table shall be considered the maximum allowed for
such uses. Exceptions to the maximum parking allowed may be approved if
justified in accordance with Section
7.8.2(C)(4).
For a printer-friendly, PDF version: Table_7.8-1
TABLE 7.8-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "A"
("du" = dwelling unit; "sf" = square feet)
 Land Use Number of Motor Vehicle Spaces Number of Bike Spaces
TABLE 7.8-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "A"
("du" = dwelling unit; "sf" = square feet)
                 Land Use            Number of Motor      Number of Bike Spaces
                                     Vehicle Spaces
RESIDENTIAL USES
Household Living Boarding house      1.5 per guest room   1 rack, or 1 rack per
                                                          40 guests
Household Living Caretaker's         2 per du             N/A
                 residence
Household Living Detached dwelling   2 per du             N/A
Household Living Duplex dwelling     2 per du             N/A
Household Living Manufactured home   2 per du             N/A
                                     0-1-bedroom unit: 1
                                     per du

                                     2-bedroom unit: 2
                                     per du

                                     3 or more bedroom
                 Multi-family        unit: 2.5 per du     1 rack per building,
Household Living dwelling (including                      or 1 per 50 units*
                 mid-rise)           + 0.5 per bedroom
                                     over 3 bedrooms

                                     All units: 0.15 per
                                     du designated for
                                     visitor parking {'
                                     {'}See
                                     7.8.2(C)(8){'}'}
Household Living Patio dwelling      2 per du             N/A
                 Residential use in  2 per du + 0.5 per
Household Living non-residential     bedroom over 2       N/A
                 building            bedrooms
                 Semi-detached/      2 per du + 0.5 per
Household Living attached dwellings  bedroom over 2       N/A
                                     bedrooms
                                     2 per du + 0.5 per
                                     bedroom over 2
                                     bedrooms, + 0.25 per
Household Living Townhouse           du designated for    N/A
                                     visitor parking {'
                                     {'}See
                                     7.8.2(C)(8){'}'}
Household Living Accessory dwelling  1 per accessory      N/A
                 unit                dwelling unit
Group Living     Dormitory           1.5 per guest room   1 rack per building,
                                                          or 1 per 50 units*
                                     0.25 per resident +
Group Living     Family care home    1 per each staff     1 rack per building
                                     person
Group Living     Group home          0.50 per resident    1 rack per building
                                     0.25 per resident +
Group Living     Life care community 1 per each staff     1 rack per building
                                     person
                 Nursing home,       0.25 per resident +
Group Living     congregate care,    1 per each staff     1 rack per building
                 dependent living    person
                 units
 
TABLE 7.8-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "A"
("du" = dwelling unit; "sf" = square feet)
 Land Use Number of Motor Vehicle Spaces Number of Bike Spaces
TABLE 7.8-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "A"
("du" = dwelling unit; "sf" = square feet)
                    Land Use            Number of Motor     Number of Bike
                                        Vehicle Spaces      Spaces
PUBLIC/INSTITUTIONAL USES
Aviation            Airport/landing     See Schedule "C"    N/A
                    strip
Aviation            Heliport            See Schedule "C"    N/A
Cemetery            All                 See Schedule "C"    N/A
Day Care            Child day care      1 per each 200 sf   N/A
                    center
                                        4 per home + 1
                                        additional space if
Day Care            Day care home,      there is an         N/A
                    large               employee who does
                                        not reside in the
                                        home
                                        3 per home + 1
                                        additional space if
Day Care            Day care home,      there is an         N/A
                    small               employee who does
                                        not reside in the
                                        home
                                        1 per every 200 sf
                                        of gross floor area
                    Governmental        used by the public  1 rack per
Government Services offices             + 1 per each 600 sf building, or 1 rack
                                        of gross floor are  per 50,000 sf *
                                        not used by the
                                        public
Government Services Public safety       1 per each 500 sf   1 rack
                    station
Government Services Public utility      See Schedule "C"    N/A
                    facilities
                                        1 per patient bed +
                                        1.25 per full-time
                                        employee (total     1 rack per
Hospital            All                 number of full time building, or 1 rack
                                        employees           per 50,000 sf *
                                        regardless of shift
                                        size)
Library             All                 1 per each 200 sf   3 racks, or 1 rack
                                                            per 50 auto spaces*
Museum              All                 1 per each 500 sf   3 racks, or 1 rack
                                                            per 50 auto spaces*
Park and Open Space Athletic field,     1 per 5,000 sf of   3 racks, or 1 rack
                    public              land area           per 50 auto spaces*
Park and Open Space Community Garden    0.1 per each acre   3 racks, or 1 rack
                                                            per 50 auto spaces*
                    Outdoor             1 per every 3 fixed
Park and Open Space amphitheater,       seats or 1 per each 3 racks, or 1 rack
                    public              35 sf of non-fixed  per 50 auto spaces*
                                        seating*
Park and Open Space Park, public        See Schedule "C"    3 racks, or 1 rack
                                                            per 50 auto spaces*
                    Neighborhood                            3 racks, or 1 rack
Park and Open Space recreation center,  1 per each 250 sf   per 50 auto spaces*
                    public
                    Resource                                3 racks, or 1 rack
Park and Open Space conservation        See Schedule "C"    per 50 auto spaces*
                    facility
Passenger Terminal  Bus, air, or rail   1 per each 200 sf   2 racks
                    terminal
                                        1 per every 3
                                        persons of maximum  1 rack, or 1 rack
Religious Assembly  All                 fire-rated capacity per 100 auto
                                        in the assembly     spaces*
                                        area or sanctuary
                                        1 per classroom + 1 1 rack per 40
Educational Use     College             per every 2         students above 2nd
(public or private)                     students            grade and all
                                                            employees
                                                            1 rack per 40
Educational Use     Elementary, middle  2.25 per classroom  students above 2nd
(public or private)                                         grade and all
                                                            employees
                                        1 per each 200 sf + 1 rack per 40
Educational Use     Pre-school          1 stacking lane for students above 2nd
(public or private)                     at least 4 cars     grade and all
                                                            employees
                                        1.5 per classroom + 1 rack per 40
Educational Use     Senior high         1 per every 5       students above 2nd
(public or private)                     students            grade and all
                                                            employees
Non-Governmental    Utility facility,   See Schedule "C"    N/A
Utilities           major
Non-Governmental    Transportation      See Schedule "C"    N/A
Utilities           facility
Non-Governmental    Utility substation, See Schedule "C"    N/A
Utilities           minor
 
TABLE 7.8-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "A"
("du" = dwelling unit; "sf" = square feet)
 Land Use Number of Motor Vehicle Spaces Number of Bike Spaces
TABLE 7.8-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "A"
("du" = dwelling unit; "sf" = square feet)
                  Land Use            Number of Motor      Number of Bike
                                      Vehicle Spaces       Spaces
COMMERCIAL USES (NOTE: Motor vehicle spaces listed for commercial uses are
maximums. Refer to Section
7.8.2[C][4] for exceptions to this requirement.)
Agricultural Uses Farming, general    None                 N/A
Agricultural Uses Forestry            None                 N/A
Agricultural Uses Produce stand       See Schedule "C"     N/A
                  Veterinary
Animal Service    hospital/office     1 per each 300 sf    1 rack
                  with indoor kennels
Animal Service    Kennel, indoor only 1 per each 400 sf    1 rack
Animal Service    Kennel, indoor/     1 per each 400 sf of 1 rack
                  outdoor             indoor space
                  Veterinary
Animal Service    hospital/office     1 per each 300 sf    1 rack
                  with outdoor
                  kennels
                                      1 per every 3        1 rack, or 1 rack
Assembly          General assembly    persons of maximum   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      fire-rated capacity
                  Special Event       1 per each 50 sf of  1 rack, or 1 rack
Assembly          Center              indoor and outdoor   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      assembly space
                                      1 per each 50 sf or
Assembly          Dance, Rental       1 per every 4        1 rack, or 1 rack
                                      persons of maximum   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      fire-rated capacity*
                                      1 per every 3
                                      persons of maximum
Assembly          Club or lodge       fire-rated capacity  1 rack, or 1 rack
                                      + parking required   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      for other uses as
                                      may be necessary.
Financial         Bank, without                            1 rack, or 1 rack
Institution       drive-through       1 per each 200 sf    per 100 auto spaces*
                  service
                                      1 per each 200 sf +
                                      one lane per each
Financial         Bank, with drive-   drive-up window and/ 1 rack, or 1 rack
Institution       through service     or ATM with stacking per 100 auto spaces*
                                      spaces per Table
                                      7.8-3
Financial         Stand alone ATM     2 per machine        N/A
Institution
                                      1 per each 50 sf or
Food and Beverage Nightclub, bar      1 per every 4        1 rack, or 1 rack
Service           indoor operation    persons of maximum   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      fire- rated
                                      capacity*
                                      1 per each 50 sf,
                                      including outdoor
Food and Beverage Nightclub, bar with waiting/seating/     1 rack, or 1 rack
Service           outdoor operation   dining areas, or 1   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      per every 4 persons
                                      of maximum fire-
                                      rated capacity*
                                      1 per each 150 sf,
                                      including outdoor
Food and Beverage Restaurant, indoor  waiting/seating/     1 rack, or 1 rack
Service           operation           dining areas, or 1   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      per every 3 persons
                                      of maximum fire-
                                      rated capacity*
                                      1 per each 150 sf,
                                      including outdoor
Food and Beverage Restaurant, with    waiting/seating/     1 rack, or 1 rack
Service           outdoor operation   dining areas, or 1   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      per every 3 persons
                                      of maximum fire-
                                      rated capacity*
                  Office, business or                      1 rack per building,
Office            professional        1 per each 300 sf    or 1 rack per 50,000
                                                           sf *
                                                           1 rack per building,
Office            Office, health care 1 per each 250 sf    or 1 rack per 50,000
                                                           sf *
                                                           1 rack, or 1 rack
Office            Wellness Center     1 per each 200 sf    per 100 auto spaces
                                                           *
                  Radio and                                1 rack per building,
Office            television          1 per each 500 sf    or 1 rack per 50,000
                  broadcasting                             sf *
                  studios
Public            Guest house         2 per guest house +  1 rack
Accommodation                         1 per sleeping room
                                      1 per sleeping room
Public            Hotel or motel      + 1 per 4 seats in   1 rack
Accommodation                         meeting or assembly
                                      rooms
Recreation/                           1 per each 200 sf or
Entertainment,    Amusement           1 per every 3        3 racks, or 1 rack
Indoor            establishment       persons of maximum   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      fire-rated capacity*
Recreation/       Commercial indoor/  1 per every 3
Entertainment,    outdoor             persons of maximum   3 racks, or 1 rack
Indoor            recreational        fire-rated capacity  per 100 auto spaces*
                  facilities, general
Recreation/                           1 per each 75 sf of  3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    Swimming pool       water surface        per 100 auto spaces*
Indoor
Recreation/                                                3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    Tennis courts       3 per court          per 100 auto spaces*
Indoor
                                      1 per each 200 sf
                                      (this may be reduced
                  Neighborhood        by one space for
Recreation/       recreation center,  every single-unit    3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    indoor/outdoor      dwelling which is    per 100 auto spaces*
Indoor            (private)           located within 400
                                      feet of direct
                                      pedestrian access
                                      from the facility)
Recreation/                           1 per each 50 sf or
Entertainment,    Pool or billiard    1 per every 4        1 rack, or 1 rack
Indoor            hall                persons of maximum   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      fire-rated capacity*
Recreation/       Theater (large &                         1 rack, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    small), excluding   1 per every 4 seats  per 100 auto spaces*
Indoor            drive-in theater
                                      1 per each 200 sf or
                                      1 per every 3
Recreation/       Electronic Gaming   persons of maximum   3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    Operation           fire-rated capacity  per 100 auto spaces*
Indoor                                or one per
                                      electronic gaming
                                      machine*
Recreation/       Athletic field,     1 per every 5,000 sf 3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    private             of land area         per 100 auto spaces*
Outdoor
Recreation/       General outdoor     1 per every 3
Entertainment,    recreational        persons of maximum   3 racks, or 1 rack
Outdoor           facility            fire-rated capacity  per 100 auto spaces*
                  commercial, general
Recreation/                           1 per each 75 sf of  3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    Swimming pool       water surface        per 100 auto spaces*
Outdoor
Recreation/                                                3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    Tennis courts       3 per court          per 100 auto spaces*
Outdoor
Recreation/       Golf course (public                      3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    or private)         6.6 per hole         per 100 auto spaces*
Outdoor
Recreation/       Golf driving range                       3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    (public or private) 3 per hole or tee    per 100 auto spaces*
Outdoor
Recreation/       Motor vehicle       1 per every 4        3 racks, or 1 rack
Entertainment,    raceway             persons of maximum   per 100 auto spaces*
Outdoor                               fire-rated capacity
Recreation/       Outdoor             1 per every 3 fixed
Entertainment,    amphitheater,       seats or 1 per each  3 racks, or 1 rack
Outdoor           commercial          35 sf of non-fixed   per 100 auto spaces*
                                      seating
Retail Sales and  Convenience store   1 per each 150 sf    1 rack
Service
Retail Sales and                                           1 rack, or 1 rack
Service           Crematorium         1 per each 500 sf    per 100 auto spaces
                                                           *
Retail Sales and  Farm market         3 per each vendor    1 rack
Service                               stall or unit
Retail Sales and  Funeral home        1 per each 200 sf    1 rack
Service
Retail Sales and  ABC store           1 per each 300 sf    1 rack, or 1 rack
Service                                                    per 100 auto spaces*
                                      1 per each 300 sf +
                                      1 per employee + 1
Retail Sales and  Postal center,      additional space for 1 rack, or 1 rack
Service           private             each delivery        per 100 auto spaces*
                                      vehicle generally
                                      maintained on the
                                      premises
Retail Sales and  Personal service    1 per each 200 sf    1 rack, or 1 rack
Service           establishment                            per 100 auto spaces*
Retail Sales and  Retail store        1 per each 250 sf    1 rack, or 1 rack
Service                                                    per 100 auto spaces*
Retail Sales and  Adult business      1 per each 200 sf    1 rack, or 1 rack
Service                                                    per 100 auto spaces*
Retail Sales and  Shopping center,                         1 rack per building,
Service           general             1 per each 250 sf    or 1 rack per 50,000
                                                           sf *
                                      based on each
                                      tenant, except in    1 rack per building,
Retail Sales and  Shopping center,    the Town Center      or 1 rack per 50,000
Service           small               District, where      sf *
                                      parking is 1 per
                                      each 250 sf
Retail Sales and  Trade school        2 per classroom + 1  1 rack, or 1 rack
Service                               per every 2 students per 100 auto spaces*
                                      1 per each 300 sf of
Vehicles and      Automobile sales/   enclosed floor area
Equipment         rental              + 1 per each 5,000   1 rack
                                      sf of outdoor
                                      display area
                                      1 per each 250 sf of
                                      retail + 4 per
                                      service bay + 0.5
Vehicles and      Vehicle filling     per pump + 2 lanes   1 rack
Equipment         station             per pump island with
                                      stacking spaces per
                                      Table
                                      7.8-3
                                      2 per bay + 1 lane
Vehicles and      Car wash, self      per each bay with
Equipment         service and         stacking spaces per  N/A
                  automatic           Table
                                      7.8-3
                                      1 per each 150 sf +
Vehicles and      Car wash, full      1 lane per each bay
Equipment         service             with stacking spaces N/A
                                      per Table
                                      7.8-3
                                      1 per each 400 sf of
Vehicles and      Heavy equipment     enclosed floor area
Equipment         sales/rental        + 1 per each 5,000   N/A
                                      sf of outdoor
                                      display area
Vehicles and      Towing and storage  1 per each 300 sf +  N/A
Equipment                             storage area
Vehicles and      Vehicle service,    1 per each 300 sf +  N/A
Equipment         light               2 per bay
Vehicles and      Vehicle repair,     1 per each 200 sf +  N/A
Equipment         heavy               4 per bay
 
TABLE 7.8-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "A"
("du" = dwelling unit; "sf" = square feet)
 Land Use Number of Motor Vehicle Spaces Number of Bike Spaces
TABLE 7.8-1: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "A"
("du" = dwelling unit; "sf" = square feet)
                   Land Use            Number of Motor     Number of Bike
                                       Vehicle Spaces      Spaces
INDUSTRIAL USES
Industrial Service General industrial  See Schedule "B"    1 rack
                   services
Industrial Service Research laboratory 1 per each 500 sf   1 rack
Manufacturing and  Manufacturing,      See Schedule "B"    1 rack
Production         heavy
Manufacturing and  Manufacturing,      See Schedule "B"    1 rack
Production         light
Manufacturing and  Prototype process
Production         and production      1 per each 500 sf   1 rack
                   plants
                   Brewery,            1 per 100 SF for
Manufacturing and  distillery, or      indoor and outdoor  1 rack, or 1 rack
Production         winery with a       tasting room or     per 100 auto spaces*
                   tasting room or     restaurant areas.
                   restaurant
                   Brewery,            1 per 5000 SF for
Manufacturing and  distillery, or      production areas    1 rack, or 1 rack
Production         winery without a    and indoor storage  per 100 auto spaces*
                   tasting room or     area.
                   restaurant
Manufacturing and  Resource extraction See Schedule "C"    N/A
Production
Telecommunications Antenna, co-
Facilities         location on         None                N/A
                   existing tower
Telecommunications Concealed (stealth) None                N/A
Facilities         antennae and towers
Telecommunications Other building
Facilities         mounted antennae    None                N/A
                   and towers
Telecommunications Other freestanding  See Schedule "C"    N/A
Facilities         towers
Warehouse and      Mini-storage        1 per each 5,000 sf N/A
Freight Movement                       + 2 loading spaces
Warehouse and      Outdoor storage     See Schedule "B"    N/A
Freight Movement
Warehouse and      Railroad stations   See Schedule "C"    N/A
Freight Movement   and yards
Warehouse and      Warehousing and
Freight Movement   distribution        See Schedule "B"    N/A
                   establishment
Warehouse and      Wholesale           See Schedule "B"    N/A
Freight Movement   establishment
                                       1 per each 300 sf +
Waste-Related Uses Recycling and       1 per each 10,000   N/A
                   salvage operations  sf of gross yard
                                       area
 
   *whichever number is greater
         (2)   Schedule "B"
            Uses subject to off-street parking schedule "B" shall provide the
following minimum number of off-street parking spaces:
TABLE 7.8-2: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "B"
Activity Number of Spaces Required
TABLE 7.8-2: OFF-STREET PARKING SCHEDULE "B"
Activity                             Number of Spaces Required
Office or administrative area        1 per 300 square feet
Indoor sales area                    1 per 200 square feet
Outdoor sales or display area (3,000 1 per 750 square feet
square feet or less)
Outdoor sales or display area (over  1 per 1,000 square feet
3,000 square feet)
Cluster box unit - mailbox            
   0-20 mailboxes                 0
   21-60 mailboxes                2
   61-80 mailboxes                3
   81-100 mailboxes               4
   101 mailboxes or more          4 plus 1 per each additional 50 mailboxes
                                     or portion thereof above 100
Indoor storage/warehousing/vehicle service/manufacturing area:
1-3,000 square feet                  1 per 250 square feet
3,001-5,000 square feet              1 per 500 square feet
5,001-10,000 square feet             1 per 750 square feet
10,001+ square feet                  1 per 1,250 square feet
 
         (3)   Schedule "C"
            Uses that reference Schedule "C" have widely varying parking and
loading demand characteristics, making it impossible to specify a single off-
street parking or loading standard. Upon receiving a development application
for a use subject to "Schedule C" standards, the Planning Director shall apply
the off-street parking and loading standard specified for the listed use that
is deemed most similar to the proposed use or establish minimum off-street
parking requirements on the basis of a parking and loading study prepared by
the applicant. Such a study shall include estimates of parking demand based on
recommendations of the Institute of Traffic Engineers (ITE), or other
acceptable estimates as approved by the Planning Director, and should include
other reliable data collected from uses or combinations of uses that are the
same as or comparable with the proposed use. Comparability will be determined
by density, scale, bulk, area, type of activity, and location. The study shall
document the source of data used to develop the recommendations.
         (4)   Standards for Bicycle Parking
            Consistent with the recommendations of the Comprehensive
Transportation_Plan, developments shall provide appropriate bicycle amenities
to encourage cycling. Acceptable rack elements, rack location and access, rack
area and site conditions such as protection from the elements and visibility
shall conform to the Association of Pedestrian and Bicycle Professionals
Bicycle Parking Guidelines adopted in spring of 2002. The guidelines are
available at http://www.bicyclinginfo.org. Should a topographical or other site
constraint create a situation in which the bicycle parking requirements require
reduction, modification, or deletion, the Planning Department Director will
have the ability to approve such changes.
         (5)   Bicycle Related Signage
            Signs restricting bicycle travel in vehicular areas at retail sites
will be prohibited.
      (E)   Stacking Spaces for Drive-Through Uses
         (1)   In addition to meeting the off-street parking requirements of
this section, drive-through facilities specified in Table
7.8-3 shall comply with the following minimum stacking space standards:
TABLE 7.8-3: SCHEDULE OF STACKING SPACES
Type of Use Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From
TABLE 7.8-3: SCHEDULE OF STACKING SPACES
Type of Use                           Minimum Stacking Spaces Measured From
Bank, teller lane                     4                       Teller window
Bank, ATM                             3                       Teller machine
Restaurant, with drive through        8                       Order box*
Car Wash, automatic                   6                       Bay entrance
Car Wash, self-service                3                       Bay entrance
Car Wash, full service                4                       Bay entrance
Auto Service Station, gas pump island 30 feet from each end of island
Unlisted                              **
 
      *A minimum 4-vehicle queue shall be provided from the order box to the
pick-up window.
      **Requirements for uses not specifically listed may be determined by the
Planning Director based upon the requirements for comparable uses and upon the
particular characteristics of the use. Alternately, the applicant may submit a
parking demand study per
7.8.2 (C)(9).
      (F)   Handicapped Parking Requirements
         (1)   Residential Uses
            Handicapped-accessible parking for residential uses shall be
provided at the rate of one (1) space per each dwelling unit that is designed
for occupancy by the handicapped.
         (2)   Non-Residential Uses
            Handicapped-accessible parking spaces shall be provided for uses
other than residential, at the rate shown in Table
7.8-4 below:
TABLE 7.8-4: HANDICAPPED PARKING FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL USES
Total Number of Required Parking Spaces Number of Required Handicapped Spaces
TABLE 7.8-4: HANDICAPPED PARKING FOR NON-RESIDENTIAL USES
Total Number of Required Parking Spaces Number of Required Handicapped Spaces
1-25                                    1
26-50                                   2
51-75                                   3
76-100                                  4
101-150                                 5
151-200                                 6
201-300                                 7
301-400                                 8
401-500                                 9
501-1,000                               2 percent of total spaces
Above 1,000                             20 spaces, plus one space for each 100
                                        over 1,000 spaces or fraction thereof.
 
         (3)   Relationship to General Off-Street Parking Requirements
            Handicapped parking required by this section shall count towards
the fulfillment of the general off-street parking requirements of this section.
         (4)   Compliance with North Carolina Building Code
            In addition to meeting the requirements of this Section, all
handicapped parking shall comply with the NC State Building Code Volume 1C (as
amended); but the more restrictive of the two (2) shall apply.
      (G)   Design and Location of Parking Areas/Stacking Spaces
         (1)   All parking areas shall be located and designed so as to avoid
undue interference with the use of public streets and alleys. Parking areas
shall provide suitable maneuvering room so that all vehicles may enter an
abutting street in a forward direction. The backing of a motor vehicle onto a
public street from a parking area shall be prohibited, except for residential
parking. The Director of Transportation and Facilities may allow parking on
public streets within the Town Center, and Mixed Use Overlay Districts provided
that the design is consistent with the Site Design Standards or other
applicable policies and plans and does not create a safety issue. Pedestrian
pathways shall be provided within parking areas in accordance with Section
7.10.4 of this ordinance and consistent with the Site Design Standards.
         (2)   All parking areas shall be designed, constructed, and drained in
accordance with the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
         (3)   Parking facilities shall be continually maintained in compliance
with the approved development plan and shall be free of litter and debris at
all times.
         (4)   Each parking area shall meet all applicable landscaping,
screening, and buffering requirements set forth in Section
7.2 of this Ordinance.
         (5)   All parking areas shall be separated at least ten (10) feet from
buildings, in order to allow room for sidewalks, landscaping, and other
plantings between the building and the parking area. This separation may be
eliminated in the rear of buildings in areas designed for unloading and loading
of materials; this applies primarily to industrial and warehousing buildings.
         (6)   The visibility of parking areas shall be reduced by placing at
least thirty (30) percent of the parking to the rear or side of buildings for
all non-residential developments greater than five (5) acres. An alternative to
this requirement is to screen the parking from the public roadway with a Type A
streetscape and/or berm. No parking is allowed between non-residential
buildings and the right-of-way for individual buildings located on sites at the
intersection of thoroughfares and/or collectors designated on the Cary
Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan unless the building floor elevation is ten
(10) feet or more below the grade of the adjacent roadway.
         (7)   [Reserved]
         (8)   For residential uses requiring designated visitor parking and
consisting of more than one (1) building, the total number of required visitor
parking spaces shall be provided in small groups evenly dispersed throughout
the entire site.
         (9)   Each parking pod/bay shall not exceed two hundred (200) spaces
without being separated by streets, primary travel ways, and/or pedestrian
plazas (see Site Design Standards for examples and additional guidance).
Exceptions can be made by the Planning Director for single tenant spaces forty
thousand (40,000) square feet and over.
         (10)   Parking in front of main building entrances along private
streets and/or primary travel ways is required with the exception of those
areas used for loading and unloading, fire lanes, outdoor display of
merchandise, and pedestrian access from the main entrance to parking areas.
Parking on public streets may be provided if approved by the Transportation and
Facilities and Planning Directors, and depending on anticipated vehicular
speeds, traffic volumes, pedestrian conflicts, and the particular design and
geometry of parking. The intent of these streets is to provide the primary
circulation network through and within a development.
      (H)   Reduction in Number of Required off-street parking spaces
         (1)   As part of the review and approval of any procedure set forth in
Chapter 3, the Planning Director may approve a reduction of up to fifteen (15)
percent in the number of designated parking spaces only if the reduced number
of parking spaces will be sufficient to satisfy the demand for parking expected
for the use, based on the nature of the use, the number of trips generated by
the use, the times of day when the use generates the most trips, and the extent
to which other establishments are located on the same property and may reduce
the number of vehicle trips required between different establishments.
         (2)   As part of the review and approval of any procedure set forth in
Chapter 3, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may allow the following reductions.
Review of a parking reduction request does not change the applicable approval
authority for the development plan as a whole. Any request for parking
reduction in excess of the reductions permitted here shall be processed as a
variance request (Section
3.20).
            (a)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may allow a reduction of up to
thirty (30) percent in the number of designated parking spaces upon holding a
quasi-judicial hearing and finding that the such reduced number advances the
goals and purposes of the Ordinance and will be sufficient to satisfy the
demand for parking expected for the use, based on the nature of the use, the
number of trips generated, the times of day when the use generates the most
trips, and the extent to which other establishments are located on the same
property and may reduce the number of vehicle trips required between different
establishments.
            (b)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment may allow a reduction of up to
fifty (50) percent in the number of designated parking spaces for a development
in the Town Center (TC) zoning district upon holding a quasi-judicial hearing
and finding that such reduced number advances the goals and purposes of the
Ordinance and will be sufficient to satisfy the demand for parking expected for
the use, based on the following:
               1.   Nature of the use;
               2.   The number of trips generated;
               3.   The times of day when the use generates the most trips;
               4.   The extent to which other establishments are located on the
same property and may reduce the number of vehicle trips required between
different establishments; and
               5.   The availability of nearby on-street spaces or public
parking facilities.
         (3)   In cases where no development plan is required, or where a
previously approved plan remains in effect for the property, the Planning
Director may grant a reduction of up to fifteen (15) percent of the
requirements of subsection
7.8.2(D) above only if the reduced number of parking spaces will be sufficient
to satisfy the demand for parking expected for the use, based on the nature of
the use, the number of trips generated by the use, the times of day when the
use generates the most trips, and the extent to which other establishments are
located on the same property and may reduce the number of vehicle trips
required between different establishments.
      (I)   Violation Resolution
         In cases where no plan previously approved remains in effect for the
property, the Planning Director may grant reductions from the requirements of
subsection
7.8.2(D) above only upon finding that the reduced number of parking spaces will
be sufficient to satisfy the demand for parking expected for the use, based on
the nature of the use, the number of trips generated by the use, the times of
day when the use generates the most trips, and the extent to which other
establishments are located on the same property and may reduce the number of
vehicle trips required between different establishments. This section shall
apply only when reducing the required number of parking spaces is necessary to
resolve a violation of this Ordinance or of the previously approved plan.
   7.8.3   Parking Alternatives
   The Planning Director shall be authorized to approve alternatives to
providing the number of off-street parking spaces required by Table
7.8-1 in accordance with the following standards:
      (A)   Shared Parking
         The Planning Director may approve shared parking facilities for
developments or uses with different operating hours or different peak business
periods if the shared parking complies with all of the following standards:
         (1)   Location
            (a)   Where the principal use is located in the Town Center Zoning
District, shared parking facilities shall be located within one thousand two
hundred (1,200) feet of the main entrance of the principal use for uses
classified as Public/Institutional in Table
5.1-2, and eight hundred (800) feet from the main entrance of the principal use
for all other uses in the Town Center unless remote parking shuttle bus service
is provided.
            (b)   Where the principal use is located in any zoning district
other than the Town Center District, shared parking facilities shall be located
within five hundred (500) feet of the main entrance of the principal use unless
remote parking shuttle bus service is provided. In addition, adequate and safe
pedestrian access must be provided from and to the shared parking areas.
         (2)   Zoning Classification
            Shared parking areas must be located on a site with the same or a
more intensive zoning classification than required for the primary uses served.
         (3)   Shared Parking Study
            Those wishing to use shared parking as a means of satisfying off-
street parking requirements must submit a shared parking request to staff that
justifies the feasibility of shared parking. Justification should include
information on the size and type of the proposed development, the composition
of tenants, the anticipated rate of parking turnover, and the anticipated peak
parking and traffic loads for all uses that will be sharing off-street parking
spaces.
            (a)   The maximum reduction in the number of parking spaces
required for all uses sharing the parking area shall be thirty-five (35)
percent.
            (b)   Directional signage which meets the requirements of this
Ordinance must be added to direct the public to the shared parking spaces. It
is preferable for the employees of an establishment to utilize these spaces.
         (4)   Agreement for Shared Parking
            A shared parking plan will be enforced through written agreement
among all owners of record. An attested copy of the agreement between the
owners of record must be submitted to the Planning Director for recordation.
Recordation of the agreement must take place before issuance of a building
permit for any use to be served by the shared parking area. A shared parking
agreement may be revoked only if all required off-street parking spaces will be
provided in accordance with the requirements of Table
7.8-1.
      (B)   Off-Site Parking
         If some or all of the off-street parking spaces required by this
section cannot reasonably be located on the same lot as the principal use, then
such spaces may be located on a separate parcel(s) as follows:
         (1)   Location
            (a)   Where the principal use is located in the Town Center Zoning
District, off-site parking shall be located within one thousand two hundred
(1,200) feet of the main entrance of the principal use for uses classified as
Public/Institutional in Table
5.1-2, and eight hundred (800) feet from the main entrance of the principal use
for all other uses in the Town Center.
            (b)   Where the principal use is located in any zoning district
other than the Town Center District, off-site parking shall be located within
five hundred (500) feet of the main entrance of the principal use.
         (2)   Measurement
            The separation of the use from the parking shall be measured from
the main entrance to the nearest parking lot space following a reasonable and
safe walking route.
         (3)   Approval Criteria
            (a)   The land on which the parking facilities are provided shall
be owned by the same person or persons as the principal use.
            (b)   Such land shall not be separated from the principal use by a
thoroughfare or collector street unless both the use and the parking area shall
be located within the Town Center District or are specifically approved by the
Transportation Director based on safe pedestrian crosswalks linking the parking
with the principal use.
            (c)   Such land shall be located in a zoning district within which
the principal use would be allowed as a permitted or special use.
            (d)   Such land shall be used for no other purpose than to provide
parking for the principal use, unless a shared parking study is submitted per
Section
7.8.3(A)(3) and a shared parking plan is approved and recorded per Section
7.8.3(A)(4).
            (e)   There shall be a pedestrian walkway or sidewalk connecting
the parking area to the use it serves.
            (f)   The provision for off-site parking, whether the spaces are
new or existing, shall be indicated and reviewed as part of the development
plan approval process.
      (C)   Parking Structures
         The off-street parking required by or provided under this section may
be located in a parking structure, whether on the same or on a different lot
than the uses which it serves. Ground floor parking provided in a parking
structure shall be screened, insofar as practicable, from surrounding uses and
from public view. In addition, for uses located on the same lot as the
structure, the conditions required under subsection
7.8.3(A) above shall apply. For uses located on a different lot as the
structure, the conditions required under subsection
7.8.3(B) shall apply.
      (D)   Valet and Tandem Parking
         (1)   The Planning Director may approve an off-street parking program
utilizing limited tandem parking for commercial and industrial uses provided
that the development requires seventy-five (75) or more parking spaces. No more
than thirty (30) percent of the total number of spaces shall be designated as
tandem. In addition, a valet parking attendant must be on duty during business
hours.
         (2)   Tandem parking may be utilized for up to twenty (20) percent of
the on-site or off-site fleet-parking component of a private transportation
service use. Provisions of (D)(1) above shall not apply to such fleet-parking
component.
      (E)   Other Eligible Alternatives
         The Planning Director may approve any other alternative to providing
off-street parking spaces on the site of the subject development if the
applicant demonstrates that the proposed plan will protect surrounding
neighborhoods, maintain traffic circulation patterns, and promote quality urban
design to at least the same extent as would strict compliance with otherwise
applicable off-street parking standards. The Planning Director may approve
different parking requirements for mixed use projects. The different parking
requirement must be based on studies and documentation validated by national
studies and/or research and recommendations from nationally accredited
institutions.
   7.8.4   Dimensional Requirements for Parking Spaces and Aisles
      (A)   All parking spaces, aisles between parking spaces, and parking
space modules shall meet the minimum dimensional requirements set forth in the
Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
      (B)   Compact parking spaces may be provided in addition to the required
minimum number of spaces on a case-by-case basis. The design of such spaces
shall be consistent with the requirements of the Town's Standard_Specifications
and_Details_Manual.
      (C)   Parking structures may be subject to dimensional adjustments based
on utilization, but in no case shall the standard space width be less than
eight and one-half (8 1/2) feet. Reduction in design standards shall be subject
to approval by the Planning Director.
   7.8.5   Use and Identification of Parking Areas
   Where parking lots for more than five (5) cars are permitted or required
under this Ordinance, the following requirements shall apply:
      (A)   The parking lot may be used only for parking and not for any type
of loading, sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling, or service of
vehicles. Notwithstanding the above, the Planning Director may allow the use of
a portion or portions of a parking lot for such uses on a case-by-case basis,
provided that such spaces are not part of areas required for site ingress or
egress.
      (B)   All entrances, exits, and drainage plans shall be reviewed and
approved by the Town Director of Transportation and Facilities in accordance
with the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual and shall be
constructed before occupancy of the use.
   7.8.6   Loading Space Requirements
      (A)   Number of Required Off-Street Loading Berths
         At least the number of berths specified in Table
7.8-5 below, depending on the gross floor area of the land use, shall be
provided on the property. The developer shall evaluate his or her own needs to
determine if the use requires a greater number of spaces than those required by
this section.
TABLE 7.8-5: REQUIRED OFF-STREET LOADING BERTHS
Gross Floor Area (in square feet) Minimum Number of Berths
TABLE 7.8-5: REQUIRED OFF-STREET LOADING BERTHS
Gross Floor Area (in square feet) Minimum Number of Berths
Less than 40,000                  1
40,000-100,000                    2
100,000-160,000                   3
160,000-240,000                   4
240,000-320,000                   5
320,000-400,000                   6
Above 400,000                     1 per each 90,000 above 400,000 gsf of area
 
      (B)   Minimum Dimensions
         Each loading berth required by this section shall be at least twelve
(12) feet wide by twenty- five (25) feet long, with at least fourteen (14) feet
of overhead clearance. Each required loading berth shall have adequate,
unobstructed means for the ingress and egress of vehicles.
      (C)   Waiver or Modification of Requirements
         As part of the review and approval of a development plan, the Planning
Director may waive or modify the requirements of this section upon finding that
the use does not require loading spaces of a number or size required by this
section, given the particular operational characteristics of the use and its
need or lack thereof for the delivery or shipments of goods to and from the
site.
      (D)   Location and Screening of Loading Areas
         To the maximum extent possible, all loading berths shall be located
between the building and the rear lot line of the property, and/or shall be
screened from the view of the street and adjacent properties. All loading areas
shall meet the applicable landscaping, screening, and buffering requirements
set forth in Section
7.2. The details of such location and screening shall be reviewed and approved
as part of the development plan.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 06-009, adopted 4-
27-06; eff. 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07;
Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-
LDO-02, 1-28-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-03, 2-25-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11;
Ord. No. 12-LDO-01, 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-
06, 8-9-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord.
No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01,
1-24-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-02, 12-14-17; Ord.
No. 2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01,
5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-01A, 2-24-22; Ord. No.
2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-16-23; Ord. No. 2025-CODE-01, 4-
10-25)
7.9   EXTERIOR LIGHTING
   7.9.1   General Requirement
   Detail standards and requirements for lighting are included within the
Community_Appearance_Manual. All exterior lighting, such as that used in and
around buildings, recreation areas, parking lots, and signs, shall be designed
to meet the following general requirements:
      (A)   Protect against the spillover of light to adjacent properties;
      (B)   Protect against glare onto public rights-of-way thereby impairing
the vision of motorists and adjoining properties;
      (C)   Shield adjacent properties by thick evergreen vegetated buffers,
berms, walls, or fences, and/or the use of directional lighting, lighting
shields, special fixtures, timing devices, appropriate light intensities,
luminaries, and mountings at appropriate heights, in accordance with the
Town's Community_Appearance_Manual.
      Single-unit-attached and -detached development is exempt from the
requirements of this Section
7.9.
   7.9.2   Lighting Plan Required
      (A)   A point-by-point lighting plan is required for development plan
approval that indicates the foot-candles at grade grid points that cover the
site. The Planning Director may waive this requirement for projects on less
than an acre if the fixture types are specified on the plan and will comply
with the Community_Appearance_Manual.
      (B)   Any changes to the lighting plan must be approved by the Planning
Director through a development plan revision.
   7.9.3   Standards
   All outdoor lighting shall conform to the standards and provisions found in
the Community_Appearance_Manual, as well as the standards listed below:
      (A)   Maximum Lighting Height
         Outdoor lighting shall be designed, located and mounted at heights no
greater than:
         (1)   Eighteen (18) feet above grade for non-cut-off lights;
         (2)   Thirty-five (35) feet above grade for cut-off lights, unless a
raised foundation is required to protect the poles, in which case the maximum
height shall not exceed thirty-seven (37) feet above grade.
      (B)   Maximum Light Levels at the Property Line
         All outdoor lighting and/or indoor lighting visible from outside shall
be designed and located such that the maximum illumination measured in foot-
candles at a property line shall not exceed the standards in the following
table. Cut-off lighting shall be designed to direct light downward (e.g., shoe
box style).
 
TABLE 7.8-6: MAXIMUM ILLUMINATION VALUES* (REGARDLESS OF LIGHT TYPE)
Property Line                   Maximum Illumination (in Foot-Candles)
Residential                     0.5
Commercial                      2.5
Industrial/Edge of right-of-way 2.5
*These standards may be modified only by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
 
      (C)   Parking Lot Lighting Standards
         For parking lots the minimum light level shall be no less than two-
tenths (0.2) foot-candles. The average foot-candle maintained to the minimum
foot-candles ratio shall be no greater than four to one (4:1) (upper to lower
limits). All foot-candles are to be measured at ground level.
      (D)   Location and Separation Requirements
         All outdoor lighting fixtures shall be located a minimum of ten (10)
feet from a property or five (5) feet from a right-of-way line and should not
be located within a required perimeter buffer or streetscape unless it is
located at the interior edge. Where located within a streetscape or buffer,
light poles shall be placed a minimum of twenty (20) feet from existing or
proposed canopy trees.
      (E)   Lighting for Canopies
         (1)   Lighting for canopies shall be restricted to lighting fixtures
(including lenses) that do not project below the bottom of the canopy. Lighting
for canopies for service stations and other similar uses shall not exceed an
average of twelve (12) foot-candles as measured at ground level at the inside
of the outside edge of the canopy.
         (2)   Canopies used for building accents over doors, windows, etc.
shall not be internally lit (i.e., from underneath or behind the canopy).
      (F)   Floodlights and Spotlights
         Lighting fixtures shall be selected, located, aimed, and shielded so
that direct illumination is focused exclusively on a portion of the building
facade or other intended site feature and away from adjoining properties or the
right-of-way. On-site lighting may be used to accent architectural elements but
shall not be used to illuminate entire portions of building(s). Such lighting
shall be installed in a fixture that is shielded such that no portion of the
light bulb extends below the bottom edge of the shield, and that the main beam
from the light source is not visible from adjacent properties of the adjacent
right-of-way. Floodlights or other type of lighting attached to light poles
that illuminate the site and/or building(s) are prohibited.
      (G)   Wall Pack Lights
         Wall packs on buildings may be used at entrances to a building to
light unsafe areas. They are not intended to draw attention to the building or
provide general building or site lighting. "Wall Packs" on the exterior of the
building shall be fully shielded (true cut-off type bulb or light source not
visible from off-site) to direct the light vertically downward and be of low
wattage (preferably one hundred (100) watts or lower).
      (H)   Illumination of Outdoor Sports Fields and Performance Areas
         Lighting of outdoor sports fields and performance areas shall be
installed in accordance with the Town's Community_Appearance_Manual and the
following requirements:
         (1)   All such lighting fixtures shall be equipped with a glare
control package (e.g., louvers, shields, or similar devices), and the fixtures
shall be aimed so that their beams are directed and fall within the primary
playing or performance area; and
         (2)   The hours of operation for the lighting system for any game or
event shall not exceed one (1) hour after the end of the game or event.
      (I)   Sign Lighting
         Lighting fixtures illuminating signs shall comply with the
requirements of
Chapter 9 of this Ordinance, and such fixtures shall be aimed and shielded so
that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the sign face.
      (J)   Lights in Landscaping and Around Open Sales Area
         Within the Town Center and Mixed Use Overlay Zoning Districts, strings
or strands of non-blinking single-point white lights may be installed in
landscaping. Perimeter down-lighting that is shielded to illuminate open sales
areas, but no land outside those areas is also permitted.
(Ord. No. 2010-LDO-03, 2-25-10; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-
LDO-03, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-
21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23; Ord. No.
2023-LDO-04, 11-16-23)
7.10   CONNECTIVITY
   7.10.1   Purpose and Scope
   The purpose of this section is to support the creation of a highly connected
transportation system within the Town in order to provide choices for drivers,
bicyclists, public transit passengers, and pedestrians; promote walking,
bicycling and public transit; connect neighborhoods to each other and to local
destinations such as schools, parks, and shopping centers; reduce vehicle miles
of travel and travel times; improve air quality; reduce emergency response
times; increase effectiveness of municipal service delivery; and free up
arterial capacity to better serve regional long distance travel needs. Any
additional pedestrian connections required under this section do not have to
address handicap accessibility standards.
   7.10.2   Consistency with Other Documents
   The design and evaluation of vehicular, bicycle, and pedestrian circulation
systems built in conjunction with new residential and non-residential
development shall adhere to applicable provisions of the plans, ordinances and
manuals listed in Section
1.4, in addition to meeting the requirements of this section.
   7.10.3   Standards for Streets/On-Site Vehicular Circulation
   The following standards shall be met for all development plans and for
redevelopment of sites.
      (A)   Street Connectivity
         Any residential development shall be required to achieve a
connectivity index of 1.2 or greater. In the event that this requirement is
modified pursuant to Section
7.10.3(D)(2), a six (6)-foot pedestrian trail shall be provided to link any
cul-de-sacs within a residential development in which the required connectivity
index has been modified. A connectivity index is a ratio of the number of
street links (road sections between intersections and cul-de-sacs) divided by
the number of street nodes (intersections and cul-de-sac heads). The following
illustration provides an example of how to calculate the index. Street links on
existing adjacent streets that are not part of the proposed subdivision are not
included in the connectivity index calculation.
         (2)   For non-residential, multi-family, or mixed used developments of
greater than five (5) acres, an organized and complete street network must be
provided with an emphasis on connectivity throughout the development and for
future adjacent development. Sites, five (5) acres or less, must provide street
connections with adjacent properties (i.e., taking into account the future
development/redevelopment of these properties).
            (a)   All access points from public thoroughfares and collectors
shown on the Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan shall be connected with each
other through a continuous network of public or private streets. (Non-
residential private streets are not required to meet public street standards.)
Connections between thoroughfares and collectors shall be direct while
maintaining a functional and organized street network. Limited parking in front
of buildings along these streets may be provided.
            Primary circulation through a development shall meet the following
standards:
               1.   Vehicular access spacing on the street is limited to no
less than one hundred fifty (150) feet;
               2.   Intersections, driveway, or drive aisle connections with
the streets shall be substantially perpendicular to the street;
               3.   Access points shall align with opposing access points on
the street or shall be offset by at least one hundred fifty (150) feet; and
               4.   Adjacent lots or outparcels must share access drives.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7739.jpg]
Street Connectivity
   Note: The measure of connectivity is the number of street links divided by
the number of nodes. Nodes exist at street intersections as well as cul-de-sac
heads. Links are the stretches of road that connect nodes. Stub outs shall also
be considered as links. In this example, there are five (5) links (circles) and
four (4) nodes (stars); therefore, the connectivity index is 1.25.
      (B)   Street Arrangement
         (1)   The proposed public or private street system shall be designed
to provide vehicular and pedestrian interconnections to facilitate internal and
external traffic movements in the area. In addition to the specific
connectivity requirements described above, roadway interconnections shall be
provided during the initial phase of any development plan between the
development site and its adjacent properties with one (1) roadway
interconnection every one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) to one thousand
five hundred (1,500) linear feet for each direction (north, south, east, west)
in which the subject property abuts. If the common property boundary in any
direction is less than one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) linear feet, the
subject property will be required to provide an interconnection if it is
determined by the Planning Director that the interconnection in that direction
can best be accomplished through the subject property due to physical site
constraints, such as topography, presence of stream buffers or other natural
features, or lot dimensions; or due to presence of existing development or
infrastructure, on the subject property or other properties in the area. When
the Planning Director deems a vehicular connection not practicable due to
topographical and/or environmental constraints, he/she may increase the length
requirement and/or require pedestrian connections. The Planning Director may
delay the interconnection if such interconnection requires state approval. The
intent of this standard is to improve access/egress for Town neighborhoods,
provide faster response time for emergency vehicles, and improve the vehicular
and pedestrian connections between neighborhoods.
         (2)   Any development of more than one hundred (100) residential units
or additions to existing developments such that the total number of units
exceeds one hundred (100) shall be required to provide for vehicular and
pedestrian access to at least two (2) public streets unless such provision is
modified pursuant to Section
3.19.1.
         (3)   Where new development is adjacent to vacant land likely to be
developed in the future, or adjacent to property that is likely to be
redeveloped in the future, all streets, bicycle paths, sidewalks or pedestrian
pathways, and access ways in the new development's proposed street system shall
continue through to the boundary lines of the new development and any area
under the same ownership as the new development, as determined by the Planning
Director or the Director of Transportation and Facilities, to provide for the
orderly development of such adjacent land and/or the transportation and access
needs of the community. In addition, all redevelopment and street improvement
projects shall take advantage of opportunities for retrofitting existing
streets to provide increased vehicular and pedestrian connectivity, such as
sidewalks, crosswalks, and pedestrian signals.
         (4)   In general, permanent cul-de-sacs are discouraged in the design
of street systems, and should only be used when topography, the presence of
natural features, and/or vehicular safety factors make a vehicular connection
impractical. Where cul-de-sacs are unavoidable, development plans shall
incorporate provisions for future vehicular and pedestrian connections to
adjacent, undeveloped properties, and to existing adjacent development where
existing connections are poor.
         (5)   Permanent cul-de-sacs shall comply with the length limits and
design standards set forth in the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details
Manual, and shall be provided with a turnaround at the closed street end.
      (C)   Cross Access
         All non-residential development shall be designed to allow for both
vehicular and pedestrian cross-access to adjacent properties to encourage
shared parking and shared access points on public or private streets. A minimum
distance of one hundred (100) feet shall be required between a cross-access way
and an intersection or driveway entrance. This requirement may be modified
pursuant to Section
3.19.1 provided that appropriate bicycle and pedestrian connections are
provided between adjacent developments or land uses. A cross access easement
must be recorded prior to issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy for the
development.
      (D)   Exceptions
         New developments adjacent to existing neighborhoods classified as Tier
2 or Tier 3 Neighborhoods are exempt from portions of Section
7.10.3(A) - (C), as provided below:
         (1)   Classification of Existing Neighborhood Adjacent to Proposed
Development
            (a)   Tier 1 Neighborhood
               A Tier 1 neighborhood is defined as any residential neighborhood
not otherwise classified as Tier 2 or Tier 3.
            (b)   Tier 2 Neighborhood
               A Tier 2 neighborhood is defined as a residential neighborhood
that meets all of the following criteria:
               1.   The neighborhood was developed pursuant to a development
plan approved at any time by a jurisdiction other than the Town of Cary, or
approved by the Town of Cary prior to January 14, 1999; and
               2.   The neighborhood meets the following criteria:
                  a)   A public street right-of-way in the existing
neighborhood extends to the common property line, however the street itself
does not extend to the common property line; or, no existing right-of-way or
street extends to the common property line; and
                  b)   There are no factors present to indicate the intent, at
the time of approval or construction of the Tier 2 neighborhood, that a street
would be connected at a later time, such as recordation of construction
easements; or physical constraints such as stream buffers or topographic issues
are present that would have made extension of the street to the property line
infeasible at the time of construction of the neighborhood and
               3.   Potential public safety issues such as inadequate fire and
police protection, are present, or are likely to be created in the future, if a
proposed new development does not connect to the adjacent existing development.
Potential safety issues may be indicated by factors including but not limited
to, a single vehicular access point, and/or the major street serving the
neighborhood exceeding one thousand (1,000) feet in length.
            (c)   Tier 3 Neighborhood
               A Tier 3 neighborhood is defined as a residential neighborhood
that meets all of the following criteria:
               1.   The neighborhood was developed pursuant to a development
plan approved at any time by a jurisdiction other than the Town of Cary, or
approved by the Town of Cary prior to January 14, 1999; and
               2.   The neighborhood meets the following criteria:
                  a)   A public street right-of-way in the existing
neighborhood extends to the common property line, however the street itself
does not extend to the common property line; or, no existing right-of-way or
street extends to the common property line; and
                  b)   There are no factors present to indicate the intent, at
the time of approval or construction of the Tier 3 neighborhood, that a street
would be connected at a later time, such as recordation of construction
easements; or physical constraints such as stream buffers or topographic issues
are present that would have made extension of the road to the property line
infeasible at the time of construction of the neighborhood, and
               3.   There are no apparent public safety issues such as
inadequate fire and police protection or response capability present, or likely
to be created in the future, if a proposed new development does not connect to
the adjacent existing development.
            (d)   Neighborhood Classification
               The Director of the Transportation and Facilities Department
shall determine the classification of existing neighborhoods.
         (2)   Exceptions to Connectivity Requirements for New Development
            (a)   Adjacent to a Tier 1 Neighborhood, all requirements of
Section
7.10.3(A) - (C) shall apply.
            (b)   Adjacent to a Tier 2 Neighborhood, all requirements of
Section
7.10.3(A) - (C) shall apply, with the following exceptions or modifications:
               1.   Construction of a road connection to the property line of
the Tier 2 Neighborhood is allowed but not required. If no connection is made,
a connectivity index less than 1.2 may be approved by the Planning Director if
such reduction results from the lack of connection to the Tier 2 Neighborhood.
               2.   If no road connection is made, an emergency access
connection to the Tier 2 neighborhood must be provided. Such connection may
include a paved street connection with removable obstructions to prevent non-
emergency access, raised curb treatment, turf stone with grass, or other
methods approved by the Director of Transportation and Facilities and the Fire
Chief.
               3.   Pedestrian and bicycle connections, and utility stubs and
connections shall continue to be required.
            (c)   Adjacent to a Tier 3 Neighborhood, all requirements of
Section
7.10.3(A) - (C) shall apply, with the following exceptions or modifications:
               1.   Construction of a road connection to the property line of
the Tier 3 Neighborhood is allowed but not required. If no connection is made,
a connectivity index less than 1.2 may be approved by the Planning Director if
such reduction results from the lack of connection to the Tier 3 Neighborhood.
   7.10.4   Standards for Pedestrian Facilities
   All sidewalks, greenways and street-side trails shall be designed to comply
with the standards provided in plans, ordinances and manuals listed in Section
1.4. In addition to the general provisions of Section
7.10.3 above, the following specific standards shall be met in designing and
achieving a pedestrian circulation system:
      (A)   Sidewalks
         (1)   Sidewalks shall be installed on both sides of all thoroughfares
and collector streets. In non-residential developments and property located
within Mixed Use Overlay Districts, sidewalk shall also be provided on both
sides of all local and private streets as well as along one (1) side of all
primary travelways. Shifting the sidewalk to an adjacent linear island is
permitted if it creates better pedestrian connectivity. The Planning Director
may approve sidewalk on one (1) side of the street in cases where a street is
single-loaded and the opposite side of the street is not expected to develop in
the future. Sidewalk shall be required on one (1) side of all local and private
streets in residential developments outside of a mixed-use center.
         (2)   Site design techniques such as shortening crosswalk distances
with curb extensions, reducing sidewalk curb radii, and eliminating free right-
turn lanes shall be used to improve pedestrian safety at pedestrian roadway
crossings. Signals that allow longer crossing times in Mixed Use Overlay
Districts, raised crosswalks, and pedestrian refuges in medians shall be
provided as appropriate.
         (3)   Pedestrian access from the public right-of-way into a site shall
be every nine hundred (900) feet along long block frontages.
         (4)   Within a development, sidewalks and/or greenways shall form an
on-site circulation system that provides pedestrian access to all public
building entrances, on-site amenities, and adjacent parks and greenways,
minimizing conflict between pedestrians and vehicular traffic. Where building
frontages exceed six hundred (600) feet in length, a building break or
pedestrian pass-thru shall be provided to facilitate pedestrian circulation
between areas in front of and behind the building mass. Such a break shall not
be required if there is no current, proposed, or future development, pedestrian
destination, or point of interest (e.g., a parking lot, greenway, plaza, etc.)
located to the rear of the building. Sidewalks and/or greenways shall connect
building entrances to one another and from building entrances to public
sidewalk connections and existing or planned transit stops, street-side trails
and/or greenways. Non-residential buildings located more than one hundred (100)
feet from the public right-of-way shall provide for direct pedestrian access to
buildings located on adjacent lots.
         (5)   Cul-de-sacs and dead-end streets shall be connected to the
closest local or collector street and/or to cul-de-sacs in adjoining
residential subdivisions, commercial development, or similar compatible land
uses including schools, parks, recreation facilities, libraries, and greenways,
via a sidewalk or street-side trail.
         (6)   A linear parking lot island containing a sidewalk shall be
provided to align directly with the principal entrance. Additional sidewalk
shall be provided in linear islands as necessary to provide adequate and
convenient pedestrian access, but shall not be required in all such islands.
Linear islands containing sidewalks shall be a minimum of fifteen (15) feet in
width to allow adequate space for the sidewalk and plantings.
      (B)   Greenways
         The Town of Cary's greenway trail system consists of a series of
interconnected pedestrian trails located off-road and tied together by on-road
street-side trails and sidewalk connectors. The plan for the townwide trail
system is outlined, and trail types are defined, in the Parks, Recreation and
Cultural Resources Facilities Master Plan.
         (1)   All public greenways shall be located based upon the Parks,
Recreation and Cultural Resources Facilities Master Plan with final alignments
to be determined during the development plan review process.
         (2)   Construction of all public greenway trails shall meet Town of
Cary standards and specifications as provided by the Parks, Recreation and
Cultural Resources Department.
         (3)   A Greenway Easement shall be dedicated to the Town of Cary in
accordance with LDO Section
8.2.1(D)(3). The developer shall demonstrate that the easement to be conveyed
is usable for trail construction to Town standards (in terms of topography,
wetlands, buffers, etc. The width of easements may be reduced to twenty (20)
feet where the developer is constructing the greenway trail.
         (4)   Development plans shall provide private, paved trail connections
to existing and planned public greenways located within or adjacent to the
development. Such private trail connections shall be constructed at least every
nine hundred (900) feet along the adjacent greenway corridor with the details
being determined by Town staff during the development plan review process.
These connections shall meet the Town of Cary standards and specification as
provided by the Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources Department.
         (5)   Public greenways and dedication of easements shall be credited
towards park land dedication and payment-in-lieu requirements in accordance
with LDO Section
8.2.1.
         (6)   All trails shall be constructed as development occurs, and
phasing must be approved by Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources staff.
         (7)   Greenway trails located within required perimeter buffers shall
meet the requirements of LDO Section
7.2.3(H)(3). Greenway easements may be required outside of the perimeter buffer
in order to meet Town standards for both the buffer and greenway.
         (8)   In those cases where the Comprehensive Plan requires the use of
greenways instead of sidewalks, the greenways shall be constructed in
accordance with Town of Cary standards and specifications as provided by the
Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources Department, and shall meet the
following criteria:
            (a)   these trail systems shall be designed to provide adequate
pedestrian circulation internal to the development, as well as connections to
existing or planned adjacent pedestrian systems and other developments, and
alignments shall be approved by Town staff;
            (b)   these trails shall be privately maintained by the Homeowners'
Association (HOA) and shall be open to the public, and this must be noted on
the approved development plans, as well as recorded plats;
            (c)   trails shall be eight (8) feet wide asphalt;
            (d)   a private pedestrian trail easement, minimum fourteen (14)
feet in width, centered on the trail, shall be recorded on the subdivision
plat.
      (C)   Street-side Trails
         Street-side trails are pedestrian trails located adjacent to roadways
(on-road) and provide supporting linkage to the off-road greenway system.
         (1)   Where the Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources Facilities
Master Plan calls for a street-side trail, a street-side trail shall be
constructed in lieu of sidewalk required in the same location. No park land
dedication or payment-in-lieu credit will be granted for street-side trail
construction or easements.
         (2)   All street-side trails shall be designed and constructed
according to Town of Cary standards and specifications as provided by the
Transportation and Facilities Department.
         (3)   A Town of Cary Greenway Easement, centered on the trail
(easement width to be determined by Transportation and Facilities staff), shall
be recorded. Street-side trail locations and the location of the required Town
of Cary Greenway Easements relative to current road widths and rights-of-way,
shall be determined by the Transportation and Facilities staff.
      (D)   Community Gathering Spaces and Plazas
         Provide at least one (1) public gathering space such as a pedestrian
plaza or park-like space for new development and redevelopment sites that are
two (2) acres or greater in size. These spaces shall be centrally located and/
or located so to encourage its use by pedestrians and patrons of the
development. Minimum sizes for the community gathering space are as follows:
         (1)   2 to 5 acre site - 600 square feet
         (2)   5.1 to 10 acre site - 1,200 square feet
         (3)   10.1 to 15 acre site - 2,400 square feet
         (4)   15.1 to 20 acre site - 4,000 square feet
         (5)   Greater than 20.1 acre site - 5,000 square feet
         (6)   For developments fifteen (15) acres or greater, community
gathering space shall include such things as a central plaza/green, outdoor
dining areas, fountains/water features, and/or public art.
   7.10.5   Standards for Bicycle Facilities
      (A)   Wide outside lanes shall be incorporated into the design of all new
and/or improved arterial streets. Bicycle lanes and/or wide outside lanes shall
be incorporated in the design of all minor collectors. On local streets low
traffic speeds and volumes allow bicyclists and motorists to safely share the
road. Sidewalks are not acceptable as substitutes for bike lanes. Bike lanes
shall be a minimum of four (4) feet in width (excluding adjacent curb and
gutter).
      (B)   Consistent with the recommendations of the Cary Comprehensive
Transportation_Plan, development shall provide appropriate bicycle amenities to
encourage cyclists. Signage indicating the presence and location of such
amenities shall be scaled for easy reading by bicyclists and pedestrians as
well as motorists. Bicycle parking shall be provided as part of all high
density residential, commercial, retail, office, industrial, and mixed use
development where appropriate (see bicycle parking requirements sections
7.8.2(D)).
   7.10.6   Standards for Public Transit Access and Infrastructure
      (A)   Applicability
         The requirements of this Section
7.10.6 apply to all development plans and reuse/redevelopment plans for sites
with frontage along corridors identified in the Comprehensive Transportation
Plan, Cary Community Plan, or Wake Transit Plan for current or planned transit
service. Previously developed sites are exempt from these requirements unless
the proposed redevelopment of the site consists of alterations of existing
transit access locations. Regardless of whether the LDO requires transit
improvements, all development must comply with Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) requirements and other applicable federal, state and local regulations.
      (B)   Requirements
         (1)   Transit Infrastructure
            All sites subject to the requirements of this Section shall install
at least one (1) transit access location. All transit access locations shall
meet the requirements of the Town’s Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
When the transit access location is located outside of the right-of-way, a
permanent transit easement is required.
         (2)   Exemption
            A new transit access location shall not be required if there is a
nearby alternate transit stop or facility that serves the same function as a
transit access location and that satisfies a transit stop spacing pattern of
approximately one thousand (1,000) feet along the same side of the street on
the subject corridor. This exemption shall not apply to major transit trip
generators.
(Ord. No. 06-009, adopted 4-27-06; eff. 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07;
Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-
05, 12-16-10; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord.
No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-
005, 11-19-15; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-03, 11-15-18;
Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
7.11   TRANSPORTATION DEVELOPMENT FEES
New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 7.11 has been amended by Ord. 2022-LDO-04, approved
11/17/2022, effective 11/17/2022.
   7.11.1   Purpose
   The purpose of this section is to establish a procedure to impose and
collect fees to finance additional road improvements within the Town limits and
extraterritorial jurisdiction as authorized by NC Session Law 1987-801. This
road project fee, or transportation development fee, shall be imposed on all
new construction within the Town limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction. It
is not the intent of this section to require the developer to pay for all new
road construction.
   7.11.2   Authority
   This section is adopted pursuant to the powers conferred by the General
Assembly of North Carolina and set forth in NC Session Law 1987-801 and
incorporated in Section 7.4 of the Charter of the Town of Cary.
   7.11.3   Findings
      (A)   The Town continues to experience rapid population and employment
growth, in part, because of its proximity to regional employment facilities
such as the Research Triangle Park and Raleigh Durham International Airport.
      (B)   The anticipated population and employment growth in the Town
creates demand for additional capital improvement funds for roadway facilities,
which include but are not limited to, streets, intersection improvements,
culverts and road-related drainage improvements, turn lanes, and signalization.
      (C)   The Town is committed to the provision of such road-related
improvements at a level of service necessary to support anticipated residential
and employment growth.
      (D)   The Town has adopted a Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan (CTP),
which addresses long-term road improvements. The Planned Roadway Widths map of
the CTP identifies additional road capital improvements necessary to serve new
construction.
      (E)   The General Assembly of North Carolina has authorized the Town to
impose a regulatory or development fee defined as a road project fee, and known
within the Town as a transportation development fee, on new construction within
the Town limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      (F)   The transportation development fee herein established is roughly
proportional to the need for new capacity-related road improvements generated
by new construction and reasonably benefits the construction that pays the fee.
   7.11.4   Applicability
   This section shall apply to all new construction within the Town's corporate
limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   7.11.5   Condition of Approval
   No building permit shall be issued for construction within the Town's
jurisdiction unless and until the required transportation development fee has
been paid in full.
   7.11.6   Transportation Zones
      Two Transportation Zones have been established for the purpose of
assessing transportation development fees. The purposes of the transportation
zones are to help ensure that adequate funding is available in different areas
of the Town to pay for road improvements needed to maintain adequate levels of
service appropriate to each area. The transportation fees paid by new
development in each zone represent the cost of replacing the roadway capacity
that traffic from the new development will consume on the major roadway system.
Fees collected must be used for road improvements within Cary's town limits and
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
      The Central Zone encompasses all land within the innermost right-of-way
boundary of Maynard Loop and excluding Maynard Road itself. This includes all
of the downtown area. This zone's primary focus is to encourage redevelopment
and infill. The Level of Service standard is "F" based upon a ninety (90)-
minute average peak. The Base Zone contains the remainder of the Town's
corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction not within the Central Zone.
The Level of Service standard is "D" based upon the standard Institute for
Transportation Engineers (ITE) average peak hour. Boundaries of the central
zone are shown on the following map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28197.jpg]
Central Transportation Zone
   7.11.7   Fees
      (A)   Every person seeking a building permit for construction for which a
transportation development fee is due but has not been paid shall pay such
transportation development fee prior to the issuance of the building permit.
      (B)   The transportation development fee shall be computed by proposed
building use and based on the construction plans submitted for approval,
according to the schedule set forth in the annual Town of Cary operating budget
(TDF Schedule), except for fees computed by an individual assessment in
accordance with Section
7.11.8, Individual Assessments, below.
      (C)   The transportation development fee for proposed new commercial or
industrial construction that is speculative construction shall be computed in
conjunction with the application for a building permit for the expected use. An
additional transportation development fee may be due for the fit-up to be
constructed within the shell; however, no refunds will be given. This
additional fee will be calculated as the difference in fees between what was
paid at the time of speculative construction and what the new use would pay
under the TDF Schedule, and shall be paid prior to issuance of the building
permit for the fit-up.
      (D)   If the proposed new construction contains a mix of building uses,
the transportation development fee shall be calculated separately for each use
according to the TDF Schedule. If the building has a single primary use, the
transportation development fee shall be calculated for a single use, according
to the TDF Schedule.
      (E)   The transportation development fee shall be collected for additions
to and remodeling of existing structures and shall be calculated based on that
portion of the structure that represents an increase above the number of
dwelling units or the floor area of the building, as it exists prior to the
addition or remodeling. If the addition or remodeling results in a use change
that increases trip generation, the transportation development fee will be
calculated as the difference in fees between what the existing and new use
would pay under the TDF Schedule. If the addition or remodeling results in a
use change that decreases trip generation, no transportation development fee
will be charged. No refunds will be given.
      (F)   The following shall be exempt from the terms of this Section
7.11.
         (1)   Alteration or expansion of an existing building where no
additional dwelling units are created, the use is not changed, and where no
additional vehicle trips will be produced over and above that produced by the
existing use.
         (2)   The construction of accessory buildings or structures that will
not produce additional vehicle trips over and above that produced by the
principal building or use of the land.
         (3)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed building
or structure with a new building or structure of the same size and use,
provided that no additional trips will be produced over and above that produced
by the original use of the land.
         (4)   Private recreational facilities provided that such facilities
are restricted for use by residents and their guests without charge and no
additional vehicle trips will be produced over and above that produced by the
principal residential use.
   7.11.8   Individual Assessments
      (A)   If any person believes that his or her proposed construction is
unique in the traffic impacts that it will generate, such person may request
that the Town perform an individual assessment of the traffic impacts of the
proposed construction. Such person shall pay to the Town, in escrow, a
sufficient fee to pay the cost of obtaining such assessment from a professional
engineer selected and hired by the Town. The Town shall then obtain the
services of the professional engineer to perform the assessment, paying the
engineer from the escrow account and remitting the balance, if any, to the
person requesting the assessment. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall, at a
quasi-judicial public hearing, consider the request of the applicant to pay the
transportation development fee based on the individual assessment. The Town
shall assess the transportation development fee based on the individual
assessment if the Board finds that:
         (1)   The proposed construction is in fact so unique that the
application of the TDF Schedule adopted by the Town would result in the
collection of a fee that is not proportionate to the traffic impact of the
proposed construction; and
         (2)   There is a difference between the fees computed under the TDF
Schedule and the fees computed in accordance with the individual assessment of
at least five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or five (5) percent of the total
fees, whichever amount is greater.
      (B)   The professional engineer to perform each individual assessment
shall be selected by the Transportation and Facilities Director from a list of
qualified engineers maintained by the Town. The list shall contain the names of
at least three (3) engineers or engineering firms, and shall be updated
regularly. The Zoning Board of Adjustment reserves the right to dispute the
assumptions, methodology, or conclusions of individual assessments. An
individual assessment may take into consideration such factors as internal
capture of trips in mixed use projects and higher rates of pass by trips than
indicated by ITE if supported by reliable local data.
      (C)   Transportation development fees computed under this section shall
be computed in dollars per dwelling unit (for residential uses) or typically
dollars per one thousand (1,000) square feet of non-residential floor area (for
non-residential uses), using the following consumption based system formula(e):
TRANSPORTATION DEVELOPMENT FEE FORMULA
FEE          = VMT x NET COST/VMT
VMT          = TRIPS x % NEW x LENGTH ÷ 2
NET COST/VMT = COST/VMT - CREDIT/VMT
COST/VMT     = COST/VMC x VMC/VMT x TDF SHARE
CREDIT/VMT   = Revenue credit per VMT
Where:
TRIPS        = Trip ends during the evening peak-hour on a weekday
% NEW        = Percent of trips that are primary, as opposed to pass-by or
               diverted-link trips
LENGTH       = Average length of a trip on the major roadway system
÷ 2         = Avoids double-counting trips for origin and destination
COST/VMC     = Average cost to add a new peak hour vehicle-mile of capacity
VMC/VMT      = System-wide ratio of vehicle-miles of capacity to vehicle-miles
               of travel on major roadway system (assumed 1:1)
TDF SHARE    = % of cost not covered by developer frontage improvement
               requirements
 
   7.11.9    Reserved
   7.11.10   Fund Accounting
      (A)   The Town shall establish an account into which the transportation
development fees collected shall be credited. Interest at the actual rate of
return on invested funds of the Town shall be credited in accordance with the
accounting policies of the Town.
   7.11.11   Use of Funds
      (A)   The revenues from transportation development fees and accrued
interest on such revenues shall be spent on qualifying road improvements.
      (B)   Qualifying road improvements include improvements to thoroughfares
shown on the Planned Roadway Widths map of the Comprehensive_Transportation
Plan anywhere within the Town's corporate limits or extraterritorial
jurisdiction.
      (C)   Transportation development fees may be used to finance direct
project costs of qualifying road improvements, including:
         (1)   The acquisition cost of rights-of-way;
         (2)   The construction cost of improvements, and drainage improvements
(excluding pedestrian facilities);
         (3)   Signalization and intersection improvements at major
thoroughfare intersections; and
         (4)   The principal sum and interest and other financing costs on
bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by or on behalf of the Town to
finance qualifying road improvements.
      (D)   Transportation development fees shall not be used to pay for any of
the following:
         (1)   Construction, acquisition, or expansion of public facilities
other than road improvements;
         (2)   Repair, operation, or maintenance of existing or new road
improvements.
      (E)   Up to thirty (30) percent of all transportation development fees
collected shall be reserved for payment of eligible cash reimbursement to
developers for qualifying road improvements established through an approved TDF
agreement entered into prior to November 17, 2022.
   7.11.12   Refunds
      (A)   Any transportation development fee or portion thereof which has not
been expended within ten (10) years from the last day of the fiscal year in
which it was paid, shall be refunded to the record owner of the property for
which the transportation development fee was paid, upon written application by
the record owner, with accrued interest at the rate of return on investments
earned by the Town on such amount.
      (B)   The Town may charge a reasonable administrative fee, not to exceed
five (5) percent of the refund due, for verifying and computing the refund.
   7.11.13   Updates and Revisions
   The Town shall evaluate the TDF Schedule as part of the annual budget
process. The frequency of any updates to the TDF Schedule may be influenced
based upon growth in residential and non-residential construction, road
improvements actually constructed, changing levels of service, inflation,
revised cost estimates for road improvements, changes in the availability of
other funding sources, and such other factors as may be relevant.
   7.11.14   Offsets; TDF Agreements
      The Town shall grant offsets to transportation development fees for
eligible qualifying road improvements that exceed the requirements for a
collector road in accordance with this section. There shall be no other offsets
to transportation development fees.
      (A)   Where a development includes an eligible qualifying road
improvement, the Town and the developer, by mutual consent, may enter into a
TDF Agreement regarding the terms of the participation of the developer in the
construction or financing of such improvement. Such agreement may provide for
offsets to the developer for his or her participation in the financing and/or
construction of the road. Offsets granted for qualifying road improvements
shall be eligible up to the maximum amount of TDF fees for the development or
eligible construction costs, whichever is least. Offsets shall be granted for a
development only after a TDF agreement has been executed, and the offsets may
not be transferred to another development project.
      (B)   The TDF Agreement shall be on a form approved by the Town Council
and shall include:
         (1)   The estimated eligible excess costs of right-of-way acquisition
and the estimated eligible excess construction costs;
         (2)   An estimated offset amount and cash reimbursement amount, if
any;
         (3)   The land development project for which the offset may be used;
         (4)   A requirement that the developer must solicit bids in accordance
with Article 8 of Chapter 143 of the N.C. General Statutes;
         (5)   A requirement that the qualifying road improvement be designed
and completed to Town standards; and
         (6)   Such other terms and conditions as deemed necessary by the Town
Council.
      (C)   The amount of any offset is calculated by adding the eligible
excess costs of right-of-way acquisition and the eligible excess construction
costs.
         (1)   Eligible excess costs of right-of-way means the value of the
road right-of-way dedicated by the developer to the Town that is required by
the Comprehensive Transportation Plan in excess of a collector street for a
qualifying road improvement. The value of the road right-of-way to be used in
this calculation shall be the actual sale value of the land, if the land has
been sold within the last three (3) years before dedication; if the land has
not sold within the last three (3) years before the dedication, the applicable
value shall be determined by professional appraisal. The appraisal shall be
performed in accordance with the Town's Standard Procedures.
         (2)   Eligible excess construction costs means the actual construction
costs in excess of those for a collector street and equal to the lowest
responsible, responsive bid amount plus or minus the cost of any change orders
approved by the Town. Final eligible excess construction cost may not be
determined until after acceptance of the qualifying road improvements by the
Town.
      (D)   Offsets will not be credited for any road construction that exceeds
the standards of the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
   7.11.15   Use of Offset
      (A)   The Transportation and Facilities Director shall compute the final
amount of the offset credited to a developer.
      (B)   Any offset may be used by the registered owner of such offset
against a transportation development fee imposed on construction of a building
in the designated land development project. Offsets may not be used for payment
of any other fees, taxes, or amounts due the Town, and shall not have any
intrinsic value. The Town shall have no obligation to the holder of any offset
who, for any reason, owes no development fees during the life of the offset and
thus has no use for the offset.
      (C)   Each offset shall be valid from the date of issuance until ten (10)
years after the effective date of the TDF Agreement, unless an extension not to
exceed ten (10) years is granted by the Town Council prior to the termination
of the earlier of these periods.
      (D)   An offset shall be credited in dollars against the applicable
transportation development fees in effect on the date when such fees become due
under this Section
7.11.
      (E)   When the TDF Schedule is revised, holders of active offsets may
apply to the Transportation and Facilities Director for recalculation within
one (1) year from the effective date of fee changes. The amount eligible for
offset will be determined under the revised offset provisions in effect when
the fees are modified. The applicant requesting recalculation shall be
responsible for providing the information needed to recalculate the offset.
   7.11.16   Reserved
   7.11.17   Other Financing Methods
   The Town may finance road improvements through the issuance of bonds,
through the formation of assessment districts, or through any other authorized
mechanism, in such manner and subject to such limitations as may be provided by
law, in addition to the use of transportation development fees. Except as
otherwise provided herein, the collection of a transportation development fee
shall be additional and supplemental to, and not in substitution of, any other
tax, fee, charge, or assessment which is imposed on and due against the
property under the authority granted by the State of North Carolina.
   7.11.18   Fee as Supplemental Regulation
   The transportation development fee established by this chapter is additional
and supplemental to, and not in substitution of, any other requirements imposed
by the Town on the development of land or the issuance of building permits or
certificates of occupancy. Such fee is intended to be consistent with and to
further the policies of the Town's comprehensive plan, capital improvements
plan, other chapters of this Ordinance, and other policies, ordinances, and
resolutions.
   7.11.19   Reserved
   7.11.20   Relief Procedures
      (A)   The developer or owner of property for which a transportation
development fee is owed may appeal the assessment of the fee to the Zoning
Board of Adjustment. After a quasi-judicial hearing, the Board shall take one
of the following actions:
         (1)   If the Board finds that there has been an error by the Town in
assessing the transportation development fee, then the Board shall correct the
error;
         (2)   The Board may modify or waive the requirements of this Section
7.11, but only upon finding that a strict application of such requirement would
result in confiscation of the property, taken as a whole;
         (3)   The Board may, upon recommendation of the Town Manager,
authorize the Town to pay, on behalf of the developer, the transportation
development fee for a project of public interest, where the Board finds that
such is in the best interest of the Town.
      (B)   Unless the Zoning Board of Adjustment makes one of the findings set
forth in subsection (A) above, the Board shall confirm the transportation
development fee assessed.
      (C)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustment modifies or waives the amount of
the transportation development fee, the Town shall cause to be appropriated
from other Town funds the amount of the reduction in the transportation
development fee.
   7.11.21   Hearings
      (A)   The hearings described in Sections
7.11.8 and
7.11.20 shall be governed by the procedure of this section.
      (B)   The date of the hearing may be set by the Town Manager or his or
her designee without prior action by Council.
      (C)   The hearing shall not take place without prior notice, given in
accordance with LDO Section
3.1.6(A), (B), (C)(2), and (D).
(Ord. No. 05-006, adopted 5-12-05, eff. 7-1-05; Ord. No. 2008-07, adopted 5-8-
08, eff. 7-1-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-05, adopted 7-23-09, eff. 7-23-09; Ord. No.
2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-002, 6-
25-15; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-04, 11-17-22)
Chapter 8:   STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS AND USES REQUIRING SITE PLANS
8.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
8.1.1   General Design Standards
   
8.1.2   Phasing Plan Requirements
   
8.1.3   Required Improvements
   (A) General Requirements
   (B) Exceptions to General Requirements
   
8.1.4   Improvements
   (A) Streets
   (B) Curbs and Gutters
   (C) Storm Drainage
   (D) Sidewalks
   (E) Utilities
   (F) Street Signs
   (G) Street Lights
   (H) Easements
   (I) Greenways, Street-Side Trails and Private Trail Connectors
   (J) Public Transit Infrastructure
   
8.1.5   Payment of Fees in Lieu of Required Improvements
   
8.1.6   Restrictions on Certificate of Occupancy
   
8.1.7   Timing and Inspection of Improvements
   (A) Fire Protection
   (B) Level Required for Final Plat Approval or Issuance of Certificate of
Occupancy if No Plat is Required
   (C) Level Required for Certificates of Occupancy
   (D) Connection of New Streets to Streets within Existing Developments
   (E) Construction Traffic; Use of Alternative Routes
   (F) Completion of Improvements
   
8.1.8   Final Acceptance of Improvements for Town Maintenance
   
8.1.9   Subdivision Monuments, Blocks, and Lots
   (A) Monuments and Markers
   (B) Blocks
   (C) Lots
8.2   RECREATION AREAS
   
8.2.1   Dedication Land for Parks and Greenways
   (A) General Provisions
   (B) Amount of Park Land to be Dedicated
   (C) Nature of Park Land to be Dedicated
   (D) Dedication of Greenway Land
   (E) Procedure for Dedication of Park Land and Greenway Land
   (F) Submission of Deed and Survey
   
8.2.2   Payments of Funds, or Funds in Lieu of Land Dedication, For Acquisition
or Development of Recreation, Park or Open Space Sites
   (A) Funds for Dwelling Units Requiring Subdivision Plan Approval
   (B) Funds for Multi-Family Dwelling Units Not Requiring Subdivision Plan
Approval
8.3   PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
   
8.3.1   Private Open Space
8.4   ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT OPTION: CLUSTER RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
   
8.4.1   Purpose
   
8.4.2   Applicability
   
8.4.3   Approval of Cluster Site and/or Subdivision Plans
   
8.4.4   Allowable Density, Lot Size and Open Space Requirements
   
8.4.5   Calculating Base Number of Lots
   
8.4.6   Maximum Density, Minimum Lot Size and Open Space Requirements
   
8.4.7   Basic Requirements for Cluster Development
   
8.4.8   Provision and Maintenance of Open Space and Facilities
8.5   ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT OPTION: TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT
   
8.5.1   Purpose
   
8.5.2   Applicability
   
8.5.3   General Principles
   (A) Neighborhood Size
   (B) Interconnected Street Pattern
   (C) Mix of Land Uses and Diversity of Housing Types
   (D) Mixed Use Center
   (E) Civic Buildings and Uses
   (F) Public Spaces
   (G) Location of Buildings and Relationship Between Buildings
   (H) Relationship Between Building Types
   
8.5.4   Development Standards
   (A) Minimum Development Size
   (B) Permitted Types and Mix of Land Uses
   (C) Permitted Densities
   (D) Dimensional Standards
   (E) Additional Standards
   
8.5.5   Design Standards
   
8.5.6   Approval Process
8.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
TABLE 8.1-1: REQUIRED DEDICATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANS
Requirement or Improvement See Section
TABLE 8.1-1: REQUIRED DEDICATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS FOR DEVELOPMENT PLANS
Requirement or Improvement                 See Section
Land, easements, or fees in lieu thereof,  8.2.1: Dedication Land for Parks and
for parks, greenways, recreation, and open Greenways
space purposes                             8.2.2: Payment in Lieu of Dedication
                                           8.3.1: Private Open Space
Monuments and markers                      8.1.9(A)
Streets                                    8.1.4(A)
Curbs and gutters                          8.1.4(B)
Storm drainage                             8.1.4(C)
Sidewalks                                  8.1.4(D)
Utilities                                  8.1.4(E)
Street signs                               8.1.4(F)
Street lights                              8.1.4(H)
Easements                                  8.1.4(K)
Streetscapes and landscaped buffers around 7.2
the perimeter of the subdivision
 
   8.1.1   General Design Standards
   All development plans submitted under Section 3.9 of this Ordinance shall
meet the following standards before they may be approved:
      (A)   The proposed development shall comply with the lot area, width,
front yard, side yard, rear yard, height, lot coverage requirements and other
development standards for the zoning district in which it is located, as set
forth in Chapter
6;
      (B)   The proposed development shall comply with the off-street parking
and loading requirements set forth in
7.8 of this Ordinance;
      (C)   The proposed development shall comply with the appearance,
landscaping, and buffer requirements set forth in Sections
7.2 and
7.7 of this Ordinance;
      (D)   Traffic circulation and control patterns within the site shall be
adequate to provide access to adjoining properties and streets;
      (E)   Walkways shall be located so that pedestrians may walk from store
to store or building to building on the site and on adjacent properties, with
the minimum possible conflicts with vehicular traffic and the maximum possible
efficiency or pedestrian circulation;
      (F)   Wherever possible, all walkways, travel lanes, and driveways shall
be connected with related facilities in adjacent properties;
      (G)   Where on-site travel lanes and/or driveways connect to adjacent
properties and allow traffic movement between adjacent properties, such lanes
and driveways shall be constructed with curbs and gutters meeting the
requirements of the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual;
      (H)   Parking shall not be allowed along the travel lanes and driveways
and adequate no-parking signs shall be installed along all such travel lanes
and driveways;
      (I)   Water supplies, fire protection, facilities, and sanitary sewer
facilities shall be adequate to serve the type and amount of development
proposed;
      (J)   Drainage systems shall be adequate for the disposition and
treatment of stormwater;
      (K)   The proposed development shall meet all other applicable
requirements of this Ordinance, and, unless otherwise specified, shall comply
with applicable provisions in supplemental documents such as, but not limited
to, those listed in Section
1.4;
      (L)   All non-residential development shall be designed to allow for
cross access to compatible adjacent properties to encourage shared access
points on public or private streets. This requirement may be waived if the
Planning Director determines that cross access is impractical due to physical
site constraints, such as topography, presence of stream buffers or other
natural features, or lot dimensions; or due to presence of existing development
or infrastructure on the proposed site or an adjacent site.
      (M)   The proposed development, if required by Section
3.9.2 to submit a Traffic Management Plan, shall comply with the requirements
of the Traffic Management Plan. The Traffic Management Plan must demonstrate
that adequate on-site circulation and safety for vehicles, pedestrians, and
bicycles can be provided. Sufficient on-site vehicular storage must be provided
for anticipated volumes of vehicles and buses such that vehicular queues do not
enter the public right of way or cause other traffic-related safety issues.
   8.1.2   Phasing Plan Requirements
      (A)   If requested in the original application, a large development plan
may be considered for approval for phased development.
      (B)   Phasing plans shall be included in the first submittal and shall be
reviewed by the Development Review Committee and/or other Town staff and
evaluated as part of the overall development plan.
      (C)   Each phase of a development shall be "stand alone" in regard to
utilities, fire protection, streets, pedestrian connections, greenways, and
stormwater management. Phase lines must follow reasonable and logical
boundaries, such as terminating at intersections or following topographical
breaks.
      (D)   For residential subdivisions, phases shall be created so that each
phase consists of no less than twenty (20) lots. Exceptions to this twenty
(20)-lot minimum may be considered if the following criteria are met, provided
that phase also meets the "stand-alone" criteria of Section
8.1.2(C):
         (1)   a phase of twenty (20) lots is not practicable due to physical
site conditions or the presence of existing development or infrastructure; or
         (2)   a model or sales home is planned, and the phase is the initial
phase of the development.
      (E)   Phases shall be constructed in the approved manner to ensure
orderly and planned development. Phases shall be planned to ensure the
efficient construction of adjacent future phases (those phases immediately next
to the subject phase, sharing a common boundary line), and to ensure that
phased development is contiguous.
      (F)   Lot numbers shall not be duplicated within different phases of the
same subdivision.
      (G)   Each proposed phase must, at a minimum, include the transportation,
utility, and other public/private infrastructure shown on the proposed phasing
plans, such that each phase is independent of subsequent phases.
      (H)   All dedications for public infrastructure servicing the respective
phase must be recorded with the first plat for a subdivision or prior to the
issuance of the first certificate of occupancy for a phased plan that does not
require subdivision.
      (I)   Water and sewer extension permit applications for each individual
phase of the project are required prior to development plan approval for that
phase.
   8.1.3   Required Improvements
      (A)   General Requirements
         The developer or applicant shall be required to do the following
unless specified otherwise in this Ordinance:
         (1)   Dedicate any additional right-of-way necessary to achieve the
width required by the Town's Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan, Parks,
Recreation & Cultural Resources Facilities Master Plan, and public utility
plans for all streets adjoining the property;
         (2)   Reserve, but not dedicate, right-of-way for controlled access
highways;
         (3)   Install curbs and gutters along all streets adjoining the
property and to pave all streets adjoining the property, in accordance with the
requirements set out in the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual
and the Town's Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan;
         (4)   Install sidewalks and pedestrian pathways in accordance with the
requirements set out in the Town's Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan
and Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual where warranted for the public
safety and convenience in view of existing and expected pedestrian traffic;
         (5)   Install street signs in accordance with Section
8.1.4(F) below;
         (6)   Install street lighting in accordance with Section
8.1.4(G) below;
         (7)   For residential development, provide open space and recreational
facilities;
         (8)   Install public utilities in accordance with Section
8.1.4(E); and
         (9)   Install transit amenities in accordance with Section
8.1.4(J).
      (B)   Exceptions to General Requirements
         Development activities requiring development plan approval that have
minimal impact on transportation networks and other infrastructure systems are
not required to install or provide the required improvements listed in Section
8.1.3(A), as provided below:
         (1)   Development Plans Exempt From All General Requirements
            Development plans meeting any of the criteria listed below shall
not be required to meet the requirements listed in Section
8.1.3(A), with exception of utilities otherwise required per the Town Code of
Ordinances, Town Policy 23, the State Building Code or Fire Code, and other
applicable state or federal regulations.
            (a)   Development activity which requires development plan approval
due only to impacts to an Urban Transition Buffer, riparian buffer or wetland,
provided that the impact is classified as "exempt" or "allowable" in
Table 14.6-2;
            (b)   The installation or expansion of components of site
infrastructure such as retaining walls, entry features, and site utilities; or
            (c)   The addition of new or expanded recreational features such as
tot lots, community gardens, playgrounds, trails, gazebos and similar
facilities, but not including recreational facilities that function as a
destination and generate additional traffic, such as sportfields and swimming
pools.
            Whereas right-of-way dedication is not required for development
plans meeting the criteria listed above, no structure shall be placed in the
area necessary to achieve the right-of-way width required by the Town's
Comprehensive Transportation Plan, Parks, Recreation & Cultural Resources
Facilities Master Plan, and public utility plans for all streets adjoining the
property.
         (2)   Development Plans Exempt From All General Requirements Except
Right-of-Way Dedication
         Development plans meeting any of the following criteria shall not be
required to meet the requirements listed in Section
8.1.3(A)(2) through (9), with exception of utilities otherwise required per the
Town Code of Ordinances, Town Policy 23, the State Building Code or Fire Code,
and other applicable state or federal regulations.
            (a)   A change in use of an existing building or structure that
does not generate one hundred (100) or more additional peak hour trips as
defined in Section
3.4.1(D)(3);
            (b)   The cumulative addition of the greater of five thousand
(5,000) square feet to an existing structure, or the replacement of a
demolished structure or five percent (5%) of the total square footage of the
buildings on the site, provided such cumulative addition does not generate one
hundred (100) or more additional peak hour trips as defined in Section
3.4.1(D)(3);
            (c)   The installation of or expansion of un-manned utility
infrastructure facilities that do not generate daily traffic, such as
telecommunication facilities, utility substations, and water towers;
            (d)   The cumulative addition of up to thirty (30) parking spaces;
            (e)   The creation of a one (1)-time subdivision of one (1)
additional residential lot from an existing lot located in a previously
approved residential subdivision containing more than three (3) lots; or
            (f)   A development plan which would otherwise be classified as an
“exempt” subdivision as described in Section 12.4, where the applicant has
offered dedication of right-of-way.
   8.1.4   Improvements
      (A)   Streets
         (1)   All streets within a development shall conform to the
requirements of this Section and Policy Statement No. 62 (Collector Streets),
as may be amended from time to time by the Town Council. These standards are
considered to be minimum standards and may be increased in a particular
instance, where necessary to make a proposed street conform to sound traffic
engineering standards and principles and the Town's Standard_Specifications_and
Details_Manual.
         (2)   The street layout in the development shall conform to the
arrangement, width, and location indicated on the Comprehensive_Transportation
Plan Planned Roadway Widths Map. For streets not indicated on that plan, the
streets shall be designed and located with regard to existing and proposed
streets, to the topography of the area, to such natural features as streams and
tree growth, to public convenience and safety, and to the proposed use of land
to be served by such streets. The proposed street layout shall be consistent
with good land planning practices for the type of development proposed, and
shall be coordinated with the street system of surrounding areas. All streets
shall provide for the continuation or extension of the principal streets in
surrounding areas and shall provide reasonable means of ingress and egress for
surrounding properties. The Transportation and Facilities Director may waive
construction of the required road improvements identified in the current
Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan where the roadway was previously widened with
curb and gutter to dimensional width standards consistent with the 2001
Thoroughfare Plan.
         (3)   Street rights-of-way shall meet the minimum widths stated in the
Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual and, if the street is
indicated on the Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan Planned Roadway Widths Map,
the minimum width shown on the Comprehensive_Transportation_Plan Planned
Roadway Widths Map.
         (4)   The pavement width of each street shall meet the minimum width
stated in the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
         (5)   All horizontal curves, vertical curves, grades, and
intersections shall conform to the applicable requirements set forth in the
Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
         (6)   Cul-de-sacs shall comply with the length limits and design
standards set forth in the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual,
and shall be provided with a turnaround at the closed end. Also see
Connectivity requirements in Section
7.10 .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-18890.jpg]
CUL-DE-SAC
         (7)   The names of streets and the addresses of individual lots in the
development shall be reviewed and approved as part of the preliminary plat. The
names of new streets shall not duplicate or be similar to the names of existing
streets anywhere in Wake County or Chatham County, or in portions of Durham
County that fall within Cary’s corporate limits. Where a new street extends or
continues an existing street, the name of the existing street shall be used for
the new street. All street names will be submitted to the Planning Department
for approval. A change in the suffix (i.e. St., ed. Constructions), when added
to the new name, shall not constitute a new name.
         (8)   All streets and areas immediately adjacent to the streets shall
be cleared and graded to provide adequate drainage, and pedestrian walkways
that may be required under Section
7.10, Connectivity, of this Ordinance. Existing vegetation along the right-of-
way shall not be negatively affected by such clearing and grading activities.
The finished grade, cross-section, and profile shall be approved in conjunction
with the final plat.
         (9)   The property owner/developer shall install the road base and
paving necessary to meet the requirements of this Ordinance and the Town's
Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
         (10)   Land needed for right-of-way as depicted on the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan shall be dedicated at the time of final plat approval (or
first certificate of occupancy if no plat is required), unless such dedication
is modified pursuant to the standards of LDO Section
3.19.1 Minor Modifications or the development plan is classified as an "exempt"
development plan. The amount of land to be dedicated shall be based upon the
requirements listed in the Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
         (11)   Transportation development fees shall be paid in accordance
with the provisions of Section
7.11 of this Ordinance. Developers may request to enter into a TDF Agreement
for thoroughfare improvements in accordance with Section
7.11.14 of this Ordinance. Each person entering into such a TDF Agreement
shall, prior to final plat approval (or first certificate of occupancy if no
plat is required), furnish the Town with a performance guarantee as defined by
G.S. 160D-804.1 as now or hereafter amended guaranteeing fulfillment of the
person's portion of the thoroughfare improvements agreed upon in the TDF
Agreement.
      (B)   Curbs and Gutters
         Curbs and gutters shall be installed prior to final plat approval (or
first certificate of occupancy if no plat is required) in accordance with
adopted Town policy and the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
Curbs and gutters may be a combination curb and gutter or median curb and
gutter.
      (C)   Storm Drainage
         (1)   Developments shall comply with the requirements set forth in
Sections
14.4 , Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, and
14.7, Flood Damage Prevention, of this Ordinance and the following standards:
            (a)   No surface water drainage from the site shall empty into a
sanitary sewer.
            (b)   The size, design, and construction of drainage structures
shall conform to the requirements set forth in the Town's Standard
Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
            (c)   Where a development is traversed by a watercourse, drainage
way, channel, or stream, a stormwater or drainage easement shall be provided
which substantially conforms with the lines of such watercourse, plus
additional width that is adequate and necessary to convey expected storm flows
and/or stormwater drainage facilities. Streets paralleling such easements may
be required in connection therewith. Lakes, ponds, creeks, and similar areas
will be accepted for maintenance by the Town only if sufficient land is
dedicated as a public recreation areas or park or if such area constitutes part
of the stormwater drainage control system.
            (d)   The Town shall neither have nor accept any responsibility to
maintain any storm drainage feature or structures, except for those lying
within a Town right-of-way or traversing Town-owned property.
      (D)   Sidewalks
         Sidewalks shall be installed along streets prior to issuance of
seventy-five (75) percent of the total number of Certificates of Occupancy
within the new development boundary as identified on the associated development
plan in accordance with Section
7.10, Connectivity, and the requirements set forth in the Town's Standard
Specifications_and_Details_Manual. However, sidewalks shall not be required
along residential streets where a pedestrian system internal to the block
serves, connects, and provides access to each lot along the street.
      (E)   Utilities
         (1)   Water mains, sanitary sewers, and functional fire protection
systems shall be installed prior to the final plat approval (or first
certificate of occupancy if no plat is required) and in accordance with adopted
Town policy and the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual. When
Town water and sanitary sewer lines are available, or will be made available to
within three hundred (300) feet of any site within four (4) months after
preliminary plan approval, the site shall connect to Town utilities
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-18892.jpg]
Utility Easements
         (2)   All utility or other pipes, wiring, conduits, cables, and
fixtures, including but not limited to electrical, gas, telephone and
telecommunications lines, fiber optic cables and the like, shall be installed
underground, except for transmission lines with a voltage of 115kV or greater
or in situations where such placement is prohibited or determined to be
impractical by the Zoning Board of Adjustment in a quasi-judicial evidentiary
hearing.
         (3)   Easements shall be provided to the Town for utility activities
which shall include, but not be limited to, improving, upgrading, removing,
inspecting, replacing, repairing, maintaining, using and operating such
pipelines, laterals, interceptors, mains, manholes, conduits, facilities and
related appurtenances as may be necessary or convenient for the receipt,
conveyance, transmission and distribution of water, reclaimed water, and/or
wastewater and for access thereto. Where necessary, easements shall be centered
along or adjacent to lot lines to the greatest extent practicable. Easements
shall be sized in accordance with the Town's Standard_Specifications_and
Details_Manual. No structures or other improvements shall be placed within any
Town utility easement. Ground covers or grasses may be planted within an
easement. No trees or shrubbery of any size shall be placed within any Town
utility easement because of the need for access by utility maintainers and line
damage that tree and shrub roots can cause. Any improvements installed within
the easement are subject to disturbance or damage and may be removed by the
Town.
         (4)   All permitted and special uses shall be connected to and served
by public water and sanitary sewer facilities; however, uses in the R-80 zoning
district may be served by private wells and/or septic systems. In some cases,
the Director of Utilities may grant an exception to allow the use of private
wells and/or septic systems for uses within other zoning districts provided
that the anticipated water and/or wastewater requirements are minimal and that
all County governmental agencies have approved the proposed use to operate with
a private well and/or septic system.
         (5)   Where connection to public water and sanity sewer systems is
required, such systems shall be constructed to Town standards, sizes, and
specifications and dedicated to the Town for operation and maintenance, thus
allowing for the orderly expansion of the Town, its water systems, fire
protection services, and sanity sewer systems which protect the health of the
citizens of the Town and its environs.
      (F)   Street Signs
         Street name signs that comply with the standards set forth in the
Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual shall be placed at all street
intersections. The subdivider or developer shall install the signs or shall pay
the Town to install the signs, prior to the final plat approval. Street signs
shall not be included in the improvements described in Section
8.1.5 below for which performance guarantees may be submitted in lieu of the
completed improvements. The subdivider or developer shall be required to
replace or repair any street sign that is damaged during construction.
      (G)   Street Lights
         The property owner or developer shall install street lighting along
all proposed streets, public and/or private, and along all existing streets
that adjoin the property, in accordance with Policy_Statement_No._13_(Street
Lighting), as may be amended from time to time by the Town Council.
      (H)   Easements
         No part of any structure, permanent equipment, private utility line
(including water, irrigation, and sewer lines) or impoundment may be placed,
and no grading may occur within any Town of Cary easement prior to obtaining
full development plan approval, a building permit, or an encroachment agreement
from the Town. An encroachment agreement may allow fences to cross easements
provided that appropriate access gates have been installed to allow
maintenance. Any application for an encroachment agreement must include plans
to facilitate access and maintenance of the utility, and must include any
documentation which the Town needs to determine that no damage will occur to
the utility. The Town will not be held liable for damage to any encroachment
during maintenance to the utility.
      (I)   Greenways, Street-Side Trails and Private Trail Connectors
         Greenways, street-side trails and private trail connectors shall be
installed prior to issuance of Certificate of Occupancy for the approved phase
within the new development as identified on the associated development plan in
accordance with Section
7.10, Connectivity, and the requirements set forth in the Town's Standard
Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
      (J)   Public Transit Infrastructure
         Transit access locations shall be installed prior to issuance of
Certificate of Occupancy for the approved phase within the new development as
identified on the associated development plan in accordance with Section
7.10.6 and the requirements set forth in the Town’s Standard_Specifications_and
Details_Manual.
   8.1.5   Payment of Fees in Lieu of Required Improvements
      (A)   Any owner or developer who is required to dedicate or install
improvements pursuant to Section
8.1.4 above may make a payment of fees in lieu of such improvements, or part
thereof, in accordance with the following:
         (1)   Approval by Transportation and Facilities Director
            The Transportation and Facilities Director may approve payment in
lieu of required transportation improvements provided that:
            (a)   If constructed, the transportation improvement would not
connect with a similar existing or proposed improvement and would not provide
any immediate traffic or public safety benefit to motorists, pedestrians, or
bicyclists, but will be necessary or desirable to motorists, pedestrians, or
bicyclists in the future; and
            (b)   The amount of the payment shall be one hundred (100) percent
of the actual installation and construction cost of such improvements (except
as provided below), as estimated by a registered professional engineer selected
by the applicant and approved by the Transportation and Facilities Director.
The amount paid for a given street frontage shall be considered total and
complete payment for the improvements considered, and shall preclude the Town
from assessing that frontage for additional fees in the event that the Town
elects to install such improvements along that frontage at a later date. The
Transportation and Facilities Director may approve a payment in lieu of less
than one hundred (100) percent of the actual installation and construction
costs of such improvements if the required transportation improvements are
located on or adjacent to Town-owned property, upon determining that such
improvements are not necessary or desirable at the present time.
         (2)   Approval by Director of Utilities
            The Director of Utilities may approve payment in lieu of required
utility improvements, including reclaimed water lines, provided that:
            (a)   If constructed, the utility improvement would not provide
immediate benefit to utility customers, but will be necessary or desirable in
the future; and
            (b)   The amount of the payment shall be one hundred (100) percent
of the actual installation and construction cost of such improvements (except
as provided below), as estimated by a registered professional engineer selected
by the applicant and approved by the Director of Utilities. The Director of
Utilities may approve a payment in lieu of less than one hundred (100) percent
of the actual installation and construction costs of such improvements if the
required utility improvements are located on or adjacent to Town- owned
property, upon determining that such improvements are not necessary or
desirable at the present time.
         (3)   Approval By Zoning Board of Adjustment
            Except where the required improvements are located on or adjacent
to Town-owned property, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may approve a payment in
lieu of less than one hundred (100) percent of the actual installation and
construction costs of such improvements in a quasi-judicial evidentiary
hearing, upon determining that such improvements are not necessary or desirable
at the present time but will be needed in the future and upon determining that
the amount of the payment advances the goals and purposes of the Ordinance. The
applicant shall provide an estimate of the actual installation and construction
cost of the improvements as estimated by a registered professional engineer
selected by the applicant and approved by the Utilities or Transportation and
Facilities Director.
      (B)   Full payment shall be made prior to the issuance of any building
permit for any use covered by the development plan.
   8.1.6   Restrictions on Certificate of Occupancy
In addition to the requirements of Section
8.1.8, a Certificate of Occupancy shall not be issued, and a building or
structure shall not be occupied, until and unless all dedications and
improvements required by this section have been installed in a satisfactory
manner and approved by the Town.
   8.1.7   Timing and Inspection of Improvements
      (A)   Fire Protection
         Functional fire protection shall be provided to the site before any
combustible materials are placed on the site.
      (B)   Level Required for Final Plat Approval or Issuance of Certificate
of Occupancy if No Plat is Required
         The final plat (or first certificate of occupancy if no plat is
required) shall not be approved until and unless either of the following has
occurred:
         (1)   The developer or subdivider has installed all improvements
intended to be dedicated to and maintained by the Town or another government
entity ("Publicly-maintained improvements") in accordance with the requirements
of this section and the approved development plan, as evidenced by issuance of
a certificate of completion; or
         (2)   The developer or subdivider has installed sufficient
improvements to provide functional fire protection (with adequate street access
and water supplies for fire-fighting equipment), has provided the Town with a
schedule for the completion of the remaining Publicly-maintained improvements,
and has provided the Town with a performance guarantee as defined by G.S. 160D-
804.1 as now or hereafter amended in an amount equal to one and one-quarter (1
1/4) times the estimated cost of completion of the remaining Publicly-
maintained improvements, as determined by the Town, with sureties guaranteeing
the completion of the improvements.
      (C)   Level Required for Certificates of Occupancy
         (1)   The Inspections and Permits Department shall issue no
Certificates of Occupancy for development until the Town certifies that the
developer or subdivider has installed all Publicly-maintained improvements in
accordance with the requirements of this Section and the approved development
plan, as evidenced by a certificate of completion. Certificates of Occupancy
may be issued even though minor deficiencies and defects remain to be cured,
provided that:
            (a)   Such defects or deficiencies do not render the Publicly-
maintained improvements dysfunctional;
            (b)   The improvements that have been installed provide the full
level of fire protection proposed for the development and the Publicly-
maintained improvements are under the one (1)-year corrections period for
maintenance; and
            (c)   The developer or subdivider has provided the Town with a
performance guarantee as defined by G.S. 160D-804.1 as now or hereafter amended
in an amount equal to one and one-quarter (1 1/4) times the estimated cost of
completion of the required improvements, as determined by the Town, with
sureties guaranteeing the completion of the required Publicly-maintained
improvements.
         (2)   The Inspections and Permits Department shall issue building
permits and/or Certificates of Occupancy for no more than seventy-five (75)
percent of the lots within the new development boundary as identified with the
associated development plan prior to (i) the issuance of a certificate of
completion for Publicly-maintained improvements or (ii) completion of all other
required improvements. The Town may waive either of these building permit and/
or Certificate of Occupancy limits if this threshold is met during the initial
corrections period for Publicly-maintained improvements.
      (D)   Connection of New Streets to Streets within Existing Developments
         The opening of new street connections to existing streets within
adjacent developments shall take place in accordance with Section
3.9.3 and this section of this Ordinance. Under certain conditions, such as the
impact on an adjacent existing subdivision, the approval authority may delay
the connection of the new street until up to seventy-five (75) percent of the
total number of Certificates of Occupancy have been issued within the new
development boundary as identified with the associated development plan. The
decision to delay the connection must consider whether the delay will result in
a public safety issue.
      (E)   Construction Traffic; Use of Alternative Routes
         Construction traffic from the new development may be required to use a
reasonable alternative route until seventy-five (75) percent of the total
Certificates of Occupancy have been issued within the new development boundary
as identified with the associated development plan. If no reasonable
alternative route exists, existing public streets may be used (e.g., infill
projects, etc.).
      (F)   Completion of Improvements
         For purposes of this Section
8.1.7, "completion of the remaining (or required) improvements" means that the
improvements have been fully installed and are functional, the one (1)-year
corrections period has ended, and any additional work required during the
corrections period has been completed to the satisfaction of the Town, as
evidenced by a certificate of completion.
   8.1.8   Final Acceptance of Improvements for Town Maintenance
      (A)   Once all improvements intended to be dedicated to and maintained by
the Town or another government entity ("Publicly-maintained improvements") have
been installed and are functional, the developer or subdivider may notify the
Town and request an inspection. If the Town determines that the installed
improvements appear to comply with this Ordinance and all applicable Town
standards, including those in the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details
Manual, then a one (1)-year corrections period begins.
      (B)   If the Town determines that the installed Publicly-maintained
improvements do not comply with this Ordinance and all applicable Town
standards, including those in the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details
Manual, the Town shall deliver to the applicant a list of defects,
deficiencies, and required repairs, in person or by mail, and shall require
that the defects and deficiencies stated therein shall be satisfactorily
corrected within sixty (60) days of the date the list was mailed. If the
applicant fails to correct all defects and deficiencies and to make all
required repairs within the sixty (60) day period, then the necessary
improvements and repairs may be completed by the Town at the expense of the
applicant, using funds from any guarantees provided by the applicant.
      (C)   At the end of the one (1)-year corrections period, the applicant
shall request the Town to conduct a final inspection of the Publicly-maintained
improvements. The Town may provide the applicant with a list of required work
to be done to complete construction of the improvements as required by this
Ordinance and all applicable Town standards, including those in the Town's
Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual. Once all required work has been
completed to the satisfaction of the Town, the Town shall issue a certificate
of completion and release the financial guarantee, if any. If the developer or
subdivider fails to complete such required work within sixty (60) days, then
the Town may draw on the financial guarantee in order to perform the required
work itself. In the case of NCDOT roadways (not to be maintained by the Town)
the financial guarantee shall stay in place until the improvements are accepted
by NCDOT.
      (D)   The Town reserves the right to hold or revoke building permits or
Certificates of Occupancy and withhold or revoke development plan approvals
until the required Publicly-maintained improvements have been completed.
      (E)   The installation of improvements shall in no case bind the Town to
accept any such improvements for public maintenance or operation thereof. The
developer shall maintain all infrastructure until it is accepted by the Town.
Failure of the developer to maintain all infrastructure prior to Town
acceptance shall be a violation of this ordinance. Final acceptance of Town-
maintained improvements occurs when the certificate of completion is issued.
   8.1.9   Subdivision Monuments, Blocks, and Lots
      The following provisions apply to subdivision of land.
      (A)   Monuments and Markers
         (1)   Permanent concrete monuments four (4) inches in diameter or
square, and three (3) feet long, shall be placed at no fewer than two (2)
corners of the subdivision. Additional monuments shall be placed where
necessary so that no point within the subdivision lies more than five hundred
(500) feet from a monument. Two (2) or more of the required monuments shall be
designated as control corners. The top of each monument shall have an indented
cross, metal pin, or metal plate to properly identify the location of the
point. All monuments shall be shown on the final plat.
         (2)   At least one (1) corner of the property surveyed shall be
designated by course and distance (or tie) from a readily discernible reference
marker. If a corner is within two thousand (2,000) feet of a United States
Coast and Geodetic Survey station or a North Carolina grid system coordinated
monument, then that corner shall be marked with a monument so designated and
shall be accurately tied to this station or monument by computed "X" and "Y"
coordinates. These coordinates and the location of the monument shall appear on
the subdivision plat, to an accuracy of 1:20,000, along with a statement
identifying the reference station or monument. Where such a reference station
or monument is not available, the tie shall be made to some pertinent and
readily recognizable landmark, point, physical object, or structure.
         (3)   All lot corners, all points where street lines intersect the
exterior boundaries of the subdivision, all angle points, and all points of
curvature in each street shall be marked with galvanized pipe which is no less
than three-fourths (¾) of an inch in diameter and no less than thirty (30)
inches long, driven so as to be two (2) inches above the finished grade.
      (B)   Blocks
         (1)   Blocks shall be laid out with due regard to the type of use to
be established within the subdivision.
         (2)   Block lengths for detached dwellings and duplexes shall not
exceed one thousand five hundred (1,500) feet. Block lengths for patio
dwellings, subdivided attached/semi-attached, and townhouse developments shall
not exceed eight hundred (800) feet.
         (3)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers
of lots of appropriate depth, except where otherwise required to separate
residential development from through-traffic.
         (4)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, no less than ten (10) feet in
width, shall be provided near the center and entirely across any block which is
nine hundred (900) feet or more in length where necessary to provide adequate
pedestrian circulation or access to schools, churches, retail stores, personal
service establishments, or transportation facilities.
      (C)   Lots
         (1)   General Requirements
            (a)   The size, shape, and location of lots shall be established
with due regard to topographic conditions, contemplated uses, and the character
of the surrounding area.
            (b)   Lot sizes and building setback lines shall conform to the
minimum lot area, minimum lot width, and minimum yard requirements set forth in
this Ordinance for the zoning district in which the subdivision is located.
            (c)   Lots that front on more than one (1) street, other than
corner lots, shall be avoided to the maximum extent possible.
            (d)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles or
radial to street lines.
            (e)   Property lines at street intersections shall be rounded, with
a radius of at least twenty (20) feet; a greater radius may be required by the
Development Review Committee as part of its approval of the preliminary plat.
            (f)   The width of the lot at the street right-of-way line shall be
a minimum of twenty (20) feet to accommodate all driveways, drainage
facilities, and utilities in accordance with the Town's Standard Specifications
and Details Manual. The stub end of a street shall not serve as the required
twenty (20) feet of right-of-way unless it is configured with an approved turn-
around meeting the requirements of the Town’s Standard Specifications and
Details Manual.
            (g)   Detached/attached and townhouse dwelling lots shall be served
by publicly-maintained streets and alleys in accordance with the requirements
of the Standard Specifications and Details Manual. Attached use types include
duplex, patio, and semi-detached dwellings. Within the transportation network
connecting the aforementioned lots to a thoroughfare or collector roadway,
there shall be no intervening private streets.
         (2)   Flag Lots
            The Town of Cary discourages and restricts the creation of flag
lots. A flag lot shall be permitted if necessary to allow a property owner
reasonable use and benefit of a parcel of land or to alleviate situations,
which would otherwise cause extreme hardship for the owner. Flag lots are
prohibited except:
            (a)   Where necessary to eliminate access onto thoroughfares;
            (b)   To reasonably utilize irregularly-shaped land;
            (c)   To reasonably utilize land with severe topography;
            (d)   To reasonably utilize land with limited sites suitable for
septic tank nitrification fields and/or;
            (e)   To provide for the protection of significant natural or
cultural resources.
            (f)   To enable subdivision of lots containing recognized historic
structures within the Downtown Historic District.
            Except within the Downtown Historic District, no flag lot will be
allowed if it increases the number of access points onto a major thoroughfare.
Existing subdivisions shall not be re-subdivided to create flag lots.
            A note must be placed on any plat for recording flag lots noting
that no public rear-yard garbage pickup will be provided for houses located
more than one hundred twenty-five (125) feet from a public street.
            Use of a single driveway, granted through an easement to serve
adjoining flag lots or to serve a flag lot and an adjoining conventional lot,
is permitted and encouraged to reduce access points on public streets.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06;
Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-
25-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-03, 5-14-09; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No.
2010-LDO-04, 9-30-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-
11-11; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-02, 3-7-12; Ord. No. 13-LDO-01, 2-13-13; Ord. No.
2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-
21-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord.
No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-01,
5-3-18; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-03, 11-15-18; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No.
2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-
24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22; Ord. No.
2022-LDO-04, 11-17-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-16-23)
8.2   RECREATION AREAS
   8.2.1   Dedication Land for Parks and Greenways
      (A)   General Provisions
         The subdivider of land shall be required to dedicate land or make a
payment in lieu thereof, for public park and/or greenway development, to serve
the recreational needs of the residents of the subdivision or development and/
or provide connectivity. The dedication of land shall consist of two (2)
categories: parks and greenways.
         (1)   Park Dedication
            A portion of land being subdivided for residential purposes shall
be dedicated to serve the recreational needs of residents of the immediate
neighborhood, except where payment of funds in lieu of land dedication is
approved pursuant to Section
8.2.2 of this Ordinance. Developers of multi-family dwelling units not
requiring subdivision plan approval shall provide funds whereby the town may
acquire recreational land or areas to serve the development or more than one
(1) multifamily development or residential subdivision, except where dedication
of land is approved, pursuant to Section
8.2.2 of this Ordinance.
         (2)   Greenway Dedication
            Lands granted for public greenway development will be required for
both residential and non-residential development for those locations
recommended in the most recently approved Town of Cary's Parks, Recreation and
Cultural Resources Facilities Master Plan for park and greenway development (or
any proceeding plan addendums).
      (B)   Amount of Park Land to be Dedicated
         (1)   General Requirement
            At least one-thirty-fifth (1/35) of an acre shall be dedicated for
each single-unit dwelling unit planned or proposed on the Planned Development
master plan, Mixed Use District preliminary development plan, or reflected on a
subdivision plat, except that any land to be so dedicated that lies within the
FEMA one hundred (100)-year floodplain, wetlands, regulated stream buffers, or
that has slopes greater than fifteen (15) percent shall be dedicated at a rate
of at least one-twentieth (1/20) of an acre per dwelling unit; such areas shall
be reflected on the subdivision plat for the dedicated parcel.
         (2)   Planned Developments
            (a)   For planned developments, the lands dedicated under this
section may be credited toward the park and recreation land requirements set
forth in Section
8.2 of this Ordinance. The parkland dedication requirement shall be capped at
twenty (20) acres for Planned Developments.
            (b)   Innovative combinations of land dedication and actual
development of public recreation facilities for dedication may be proposed for
consideration and are subject to the approval of the Town Council. The Town
must receive at least equal value in facilities and land as the value of the
land required for dedication as specified above.
            (c)   The Town will review the proposed dedication to assure
compliance with the park type(s) recommended by the currently approved master
plan for the geographic area of the planned development.
            (d)   If existing Town of Cary park land exists adjacent to the
development, the Town may determine that a smaller tract of land than that
which meets the standards above may be dedicated adjacent to the existing park
land, in order to create a larger single Town park site. In situations where
such adjacent dedications are made, the developer will be required to pay a fee
in lieu or any remaining dedication requirement in accordance with this
section. The improvements must conform to Town standards, specifications and
time of dedication as identified in the approved planned development master
plan map and application.
            (e)   If additional residential development is proposed for a
previously approved planned development, the following provisions shall apply:
               1.   Planned Developments (PDs) approved prior to October 28,
1993: Any land added to the Planned Development shall be treated as a new PD
for the purposes of calculating the land dedication requirements.
               2.   PDs approved on or after October 28, 1993, will not be
required to dedicate any additional land.
      (C)   Nature of Park Land to be Dedicated
         Except as otherwise required or approved by the Town Council at the
time of Planned Development master plan approval, development plan approval, or
Mixed Use District preliminary development plan approval, all dedications of
land shall meet the following criteria. These criteria should be considered
general guidelines to ensure that the dedication of land is suitable for park
development.
         (1)   Unity
            The dedicated park land shall form a single parcel of land, except
where the Town Council determines that two (2) or more parcels would be in the
best interest of the public, given the type and distribution of open spaces
needed to adequately serve the proposed development. In such cases, the Town
Council may require that such parcels be connected by a dedicated strip of land
at least thirty (30) feet in width.
         (2)   Usability
            At least fifty (50) percent of the total park land dedicated, which
is intended primarily for active recreational use, shall be located outside the
Flood Hazard Area, alluvial soils, lakes, or other water bodies, and areas with
slopes greater than fifteen (15) percent, and at least seventy-five (75)
percent of the total land dedicated shall be located outside of wetlands
subject to Federal or State regulatory jurisdiction. Lakes, ponds, creeks, or
other water bodies, and wetlands falling under the jurisdiction of state or
federal agencies as indicated in Section
14.4 , Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, and Section
14.7, Flood Damage Prevention, of this Ordinance, may be dedicated only if
sufficient abutting land is dedicated as a public recreation area or park or if
such area constitutes a necessary part of the drainage control system. Land
dedicated only for greenways need not follow the requirements of this
subsection.
         (3)   Shape
            The shape of the portion of the dedicated park land that is deemed
suitable for active recreation shall be sufficiently square or round to be
usable for any or all recreational facilities and activities, such as athletic
fields and tennis courts, when a sufficient amount of land is dedicated to
accommodate such facilities. Land dedicated only for greenways need not follow
the requirements of this subsection.
         (4)   Location
            The dedicated park land shall be located so as to reasonably serve
the recreation and open space needs of residents of the subdivision or planned
development, and to comply with the Town's Parks , Recreation and Cultural
Resources Facilities Master Plan, where applicable. The dedicated park land may
be located outside of the residential development in order to comply with the
currently approved Town's Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources Facilities
Master Plan, to add property to existing park land, or to combine land
dedication efforts with those of other developments.
         (5)   Access
            Public access to the dedicated park land shall be provided either
by adjoining public street frontage or by a dedicated public easement, at least
sixty (60) feet wide, which connects the dedicated land to a public street or
right-of-way. Gradients adjacent to existing and proposed streets shall allow
for reasonable access to the dedicated land. Where the dedicated land is
located adjacent to a street, the developer or subdivider shall remain
responsible for the installation of utilities, sidewalks, and other
improvements required along that street segment. Public access to greenway
dedications only shall be at least twenty (20) feet wide.
         (6)   Topography
            The average slope of the portion of dedicated land deemed usable
for active recreation shall not exceed the average slope of the entire
subdivision or planned development to be developed. In no case shall a slope on
the usable portion of dedicated land exceed fifteen (15) percent.
         (7)   Dedication of Lakes
            The subdivider or developer may propose to include an existing or
proposed lake as part of a park dedication. The dedication of such lake shall
meet the following criteria, and will be subject to the approval of the Town
Council. Evidence that the lake meets the following criteria shall be provided
to Town Council at the time of Council review and approval of acceptance of the
lake:
            (a)   It shall be a minimum of ten (10) acres in size. The average
width of the lake should be not less than one-third (1/3) of its average
length.
            (b)   Dam construction shall comply with the latest versions of Dam
Safety Rules by the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural
Resources, and shall comply with the rules appropriate to the class of the dam,
except all dams shall meet the lowest threshold criteria. All lakes shall
include a primary spillway, emergency spillway, and drain, and all materials
shall meet Town specifications. Lake and dam construction shall also comply
with the latest version of the Stormwater Best Management Practices Manual by
the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources, if lake
will function as a stormwater best management practice.
            (c)   The land surrounding and adjacent to the lake shall be
dedicated to the Town, at a minimum width of one hundred (100) feet measured
from top of bank.
            (d)   The lake dam shall not be utilized to support a public or
private street.
      (D)   Dedication of Greenway Land
         (1)   Easement dedication for greenway purposes is a separate
requirement from parkland dedication, though the land dedicated for greenway
purposes may be counted towards park land dedication requirements, except for
easements dedicated for street-side trails [as indicated in Section
7.10.4 (C)].
         (2)   Locations of proposed greenways will be based on the currently
approved Town's Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources Facilities Master
Plan.
         (3)   If the Town of Cary’s Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources
Facilities Master Plan indicates a future greenway through a proposed
development, whether residential or non-residential, a strip of greenway land
through this area shall be dedicated to the Town, at a minimum of thirty (30)
feet, but not to exceed fifty (50) feet in width; widths of easements may be
reduced to twenty (20) feet in those cases where the developer is constructing
the greenway trail. Widths of greenway easements for street-side trails [see
Section
7.10.4 (C)] shall be determined by the Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources
Director.
      (E)   Procedure for Dedication of Park Land and Greenway Land
         The dedication of such land shall be reviewed and approved at the time
of Planned Development master plan approval, development plan approval, or
Mixed Use District preliminary development plan approval as applicable. The
applicant shall designate on the applicable plan, if any, the area or areas of
land to be dedicated pursuant to this section. Where FEMA one hundred (100)-
year floodplain, regulated stream buffers, slopes greater than fifteen percent
(15%), or wetlands falling under the jurisdiction of State or Federal agencies
have been certified to exist on the property, the applicable plan shall also
identify the boundaries of such areas. Upon receipt of the applicable plan, the
Planning Director shall submit a copy thereof to the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Cultural Resources for review by the Parks, Recreation and
Cultural Resources Advisory Board. If the development in consideration is to be
approved administratively, the recommendation of the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Cultural Resources shall be submitted to the Planning
Department.
      (F)   Submission of Deed and Survey
         Unless otherwise stipulated in a planned development master plan or
Mixed Use District preliminary development plan, or required by law, an
executed general warranty deed, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and
restrictive covenants, conveying the land to the Town of Cary, and a
reproducible paper boundary survey indicating the location and area of all
wetlands, alluvial soils, regulated riparian buffers, floodplain, waterbodies,
and slopes greater than fifteen percent (15%), shall be submitted no later than
two (2) years after the approval of the development plan, Planned Development
master plan, Mixed Use District preliminary development plan, or prior to the
issuance of fifty percent (50%) of the Certificates of Occupancy for the
development (based on approved development plans and approved master plan),
whichever is earlier. The Town Council may grant an extension of time.
   8.2.2   Payments of Funds, or Funds in Lieu of Land Dedication, For
Acquisition or Development of Recreation, Park or Open Space Sites
      (A)   Funds for Dwelling Units Requiring Subdivision Plan Approval
         If land to be dedicated does not meet the requirements of Section
8.2.1 of this Ordinance, or is not suitable for public recreation purposes, or
if the recreational needs of the proposed development can be met by other park,
greenway, or recreational facilities planned or constructed by the Town within
reasonable proximity to the development, or if existing park land is adequate
to serve the development, a payment or partial payment of funds ("subdivision
recreation fund payment") in lieu of a land dedication shall be made.
Recommendations regarding payment of funds in lieu of a dedication of land will
be made by the Town at the time of development plan approval, or master land
use plan approval in the case of a Planned Development, or as part of the
preliminary development plan for a Mixed Use District.
         (1)   Amount of Payment
            (a)   Where the payment of funds to the Town is to be made in lieu
of dedication of land as permitted by this section, the amount of such
subdivision recreation fund payment shall be based on the value of the
development or subdivision for property tax purposes pursuant to G.S. 160D-804
(d). For the purpose of determining such value of the development or
subdivision, the Town shall obtain a current written appraisal of the fair
market value of the land to be developed or subdivided. For the purpose of this
Section
8.2.2, "fair market value" means the value of the development or subdivision
for property tax purposes.
            (b)   Each appraisal shall be performed by a North Carolina
licensed real estate appraiser.
            (c)   The Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources Director may
waive the requirement of an appraisal where the subdivider/developer provides
to the Town documentation evidencing the fair market value of the subject
property, which in the opinion of the Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources
Director, reasonably estimates the fair market value.
            (d)   The appraisal or documentation of the land's fair market
value, along with other evidence that, in the Town's opinion, aids in the
determination of fair market value, may be used in the determination of the
amount of any payment in lieu of land dedication permitted by this section.
            (e)   The Director of Parks, Recreation, and Cultural Resources
shall make the final determination of the payment amount.
         (2)   Procedure for Approval
            The payment of subdivision recreation funds, in lieu of land
dedication, shall be approved as part of, or prior to, approval of the
development plan or, in the case of Planned Development, the master land use
plan or, in the case of a Mixed Use District, the preliminary development plan.
Upon receipt of the application to make a subdivision recreation fund payment,
the Planning Director shall submit a copy thereof to the Director of Parks,
Recreation and Cultural Resources for review by the Parks, Recreation and
Cultural Resources Advisory Board. In the event of a dispute between an
applicant who wants to make a subdivision recreation fund payment and a
recommendation by the Parks, Recreation and Cultural Resources Advisory Board
that land shall be dedicated, the Town Council shall make the final
determination. A combination of partial payment of funds and partial dedication
of land (pursuant to Section
8.2.1(C) through (F), as applicable), may be required if the Town Council
determines that this combination is in the best interest of the citizens of the
area to be served.
         (3)   Time of Payment
            The subdivision recreation fund payment shall be made prior to
recording any lot(s) in the subdivision to which the fees relate. Payment may
be phased in accordance with a phasing plan approved as part of the approved
development plan.
         (4)   Appeal of Payment Amount
            Appeal of the subdivision recreation fund payment amount shall be
made to the Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
      (B)   Funds for Multi-Family Dwelling Units Not Requiring Subdivision
Plan Approval
         Pursuant to N.C. Session Law 2007-321, developers of multi-family
dwelling units not requiring subdivision plan approval shall provide funds
("multi-family recreation fund payment") whereby the town may acquire
recreational land or areas to serve the development or more than one (1)
multifamily development or residential subdivision, except where dedication of
land is approved pursuant to this Section
8.2.2(B). Such funds may be combined with funds received from residential
subdivisions pursuant to Section
8.2.2(A) of this Ordinance and used for the acquisition or development of
recreation, park or open space sites.
         (1)   Amount of Payment
            (a)   The developer shall pay a multi-family recreation fund
payment for each dwelling unit. The multi-family recreation fund payment shall
be equal to sixty-five percent (65%) of the five (5)-year rolling average
subdivision recreation fund payment per dwelling unit. The five (5)-year
rolling average subdivision recreation fund payment per dwelling unit shall be
calculated by (1) determining the subdivision recreation fund payments assessed
for the previous five (5) calendar years; (2) for each subdivision that was
assessed a payment during that time period, determining the cost per dwelling
unit of such payment; and (3) calculating the average of each such per dwelling
unit payment.
            (b)   A combination of partial payment of funds and partial
dedication of land pursuant to Section
8.2.1 (C) through (F) of this Ordinance, as applicable, may be required if the
Town Council determines that this combination is in the best interest of the
citizens of the area to be served. Land to be dedicated to the Town in lieu of
payment of funds shall be in an amount equal to one-fifty-fifth (1/55) of an
acre for each dwelling unit for which dedication is to be made in lieu of fund
payment, except that land that lies within a FEMA one hundred (100) year
floodplain, wetlands, regulated stream buffers or that has slopes greater than
fifteen (15) percent shall be dedicated at a rate of at least one-fortieth (1/
40) of an acre per dwelling unit.
         (2)   Time of Payment
            The multi-family recreation fund payment shall be made in
accordance with an approved phasing plan, or prior to the issuance of the first
Building Permit if there is no approved phasing plan.
         (3)   Appeal of Payment Amount
            Appeal of the multifamily recreation fund payment amount shall be
made to the Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06;
Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-
25-08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-05, 6-14-12; Ord. No.
2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-
14; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2020-
LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22;
Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
8.3   PRIVATE OPEN SPACE
   8.3.1   Private Open Space
   The developer of each residential development requiring development approval
shall set aside at least five hundred (500) square feet of open space for each
dwelling unit. Such open space shall meet the standards of this section:
      (1)   Locational Criteria
         To the maximum extent feasible, where significant natural and scenic
resource assets exist on a property, the developer shall give priority to their
preservation through public park or greenway dedication or as private open
space. In reviewing the location of private open areas, the Planning Director
shall use all applicable plans, maps, and reports to determine whether
significant resources exist on a proposed site that should be protected, with
priority being given to the following areas (which are not listed in a
particular order):
         (a)   Wetlands;
         (b)   Flood Hazard Area;
         (c)   Lakes, rivers, and stream/UTB corridors;
         (d)   Wildlife migration corridors; and
         (e)   Steep slope areas.
      (2)   The Following Shall Not Be Counted Towards Private Open Space
Areas:
         (a)   Private yards;
         (b)   Public or private streets or rights-of-way;
         (c)   Open parking areas and driveways for dwellings;
         (d)   Land covered by structures; and
      (3)   Use of Private Open Space
         Private open space shall not be disturbed, developed, or improved,
with any structures or buildings, except for the limited purposes allowed
below.
         (a)   Facilities for active recreation (equipment for such uses shall
be indicated on the development plan provided by the developer);
         (b)   Private open space may include passive recreational and
educational purposes approved by the Planning Director, including but not
limited to walking, biking, picnicking, fishing, preservation of natural areas
and scenic resources, parks, environmental education, and wildlife habitat
protection.
         (c)   Private open space shall be distributed throughout the
development and located so as to be readily accessible and useable by
residents. A portion of the open space should provide focal points for the
neighborhood.
         (d)   Clearing of underbrush and debris and the provision of walks,
fountains, fences, and other similar features are allowed.
      (4)   Design Criteria
         Land set aside for private open space shall meet the following design
criteria, as relevant:
         (a)   The lands shall be compact and contiguous unless the land shall
be used as a continuation of an existing trail, or specific topographic
features require a different configuration. An example of such topographic
features would be the provision of a trail or private open area along a
riparian corridor.
         (b)   Where private open areas, trails, parks, or other public spaces
exist adjacent to the tract to be subdivided or developed, the private open
space shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be located to adjoin, extend, and
enlarge the presently existing trail, park, or other open area land.
      (5)   Ownership
         All private open space shall be owned jointly or in common by the
owners of the development.
(Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-
25-08; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22)
8.4   ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT OPTION: CLUSTER RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
   8.4.1   Purpose
   This Section provides an optional process and standards for cluster housing
development. The Section is intended to encourage and allow for new concepts of
traditional housing development so that variations of design may be allowed,
provided that the net residential density shall be no greater than permitted in
the district in which the development is proposed. This shall not be construed
as granting variances to relieve hardship.
   A conventional subdivision generally covers the entire developable portion
of a site with residential lots. These lots are equal to or greater than a
required minimum size designed to approximate the maximum permitted development
density under the zoning regulations. A cluster subdivision allows for the
reduction in the lot square footage minimum and setbacks provided that non-
regulatory or bonus open space is provided. This permits greater net densities
on portions of the site while permanently preserving additional open space and
other important environmental resources such as those identified in the Open
Space and Historic_Resources_Plan.
   This type of development is more sensitive to the natural environment by
reducing the total amount of disturbance that may occur to the land in
comparison to a conventional development while allowing the developer to reduce
site improvement costs. The use of clustered subdivisions is not intended to
allow increased density for undevelopable or unusable land already protected by
other provisions of this Ordinance. The remnant land not designated as building
lots is required to be left undeveloped, and must serve the purpose of
effective buffering, passive recreation, and protection of significant
vegetation, historic resources or scenic qualities.
   8.4.2   Applicability
   The cluster development option is available for property located within a
zoning district that permits single-unit detached dwelling units (e.g., R-20,
and R-40), with the exception of property located within the Conservation
Residential Overlay District. The development of the property must comply with
all zoning conditions when using the cluster option. The size of the tract used
under this option must be a minimum of ten (10) acres.
   8.4.3   Approval of Cluster Site and/or Subdivision Plans
   The approval authority may allow subdivision development on reduced lot
sizes in return for the provision of bonus open space and other design
requirements set forth within this Section. In order to approve a development
plan using this option, the Town must determine that the benefits of the
cluster approach will prevent the loss of natural features without increasing
the overall density or impervious surface of the development. Cluster
developments follow the same review and approval process that conventional
developments follow as required by this Ordinance.
   8.4.4   Allowable Density, Lot Size and Open Space Requirements
   An increase in the number of lots above the number of lots permitted by the
underlying zoning district (base number of lots) is allowed provided the
development plan meets open space requirements and other design requirements
set forth within Section
8.4. In no case shall the density of the development exceed the maximum
permitted density of the site's designated zoning district.
   8.4.5   Calculating Base Number of Lots
   The base number of lots is defined as the lot yield based on the
implementation of the requirements of the underlying zoning district. The base
number of lots is the starting point from which extra lots may be permitted if
non-regulatory or bonus open space (see
Chapter 12 for definition) is provided and other design requirements are met.
    The applicant shall choose one (1) of the following methods for calculating
the base number of lots:
      (A)   The base number of lots may be determined by taking ninety (90)
percent of the potential developable area of the site and multiplying by the
maximum density (based on lot area requirements) for the underlying zoning
district. The purpose of reducing the potential developable acreage by ten (10)
percent is to account for the approximate area that would be allocated to
roadways within a conventional subdivision. "Potential developable area" within
this Section is defined as the total land area of the site excluding all
regulatory floodplains, streetscapes and other required areas (see
Chapter 7: Development and Design Standards). For sites that contain and/or are
adjacent to the American Tobacco Trail, a buffer of at least fifty (50) feet in
width is required. This minimum buffer width is considered regulatory/required
area, and shall not be included in the calculation of potential developable
area.
         Example: Site A
         Total Acres: One hundred (100)
         Acres in regulated/protected areas: Twenty (20)
         Potential Developable area including roadways: One hundred (100) -
Twenty (20) = Eighty (80)
         Calculated Developable area (Eighty (80) acres) x Ninety (90) percent
= Seventy-two (72) acres
         Seventy-two (72) acres x 1.09 dwelling units per acre (density
permitted in R-40) = Seventy-Eight (78) base number of lots
       (B)   The base number of lots may be determined based on a yield plan
for the site, whereby the applicant presents a rough or sketch conventional
subdivision development plan that fully complies with the development
requirements of the underlying zoning for the site.
   8.4.6   Maximum Density, Minimum Lot Size and Open Space Requirements
   An increase in the number of lots (density bonus) is provided in exchange
for the permanent preservation of bonus open space and meeting other design
requirements. An increase in the number of lots is achieved by allowing a lower
minimum lot size (see
Table 8.4-1 below).
 
TABLE 8.4-1: MAXIMUM DENSITY, MINIMUM LOT SIZE AND OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS
         Maximum Allowable      Minimum Lot Size (sq. Bonus Open Space Required
District Development Density in ft.)                  Per Additional Lot (sq.
         District                                     ft.)
R- 40    1.09                   15,000                14,816 Bonus
R-20     2.17                   10,000                14,816 Bonus
 
Example (continued from
8.4.5 above) :
 
Size of Site Base Number of Lots Bonus Open Space  Additional Lots Actual Gross
                                                                   Density
                                 8 acres (10% of
100 acres    78                  potential         24 (30% more)   1.02
                                 developable area)
 
   8.4.7   Basic Requirements for Cluster Development
      (A)   Cluster developments shall meet all requirements for a development
plan and all other applicable Town ordinances except for lot size, which is
defined in this Section. Cluster subdivisions within the Jordan Lake watershed
may be constructed without the standard curb and gutter required in other areas
of Town. Alternative street designs may also be considered if such designs
further protect on-site resources.
      (B)   R-12 dimensional requirements may be used for lots within cluster
subdivisions. However, where lots in a cluster development abut other
residential lots within an existing subdivision that is not developed as a
cluster development, said lots shall have a side and rear yard setback not less
than that of the abutting subdivision or the required side or rear yard setback
required within the proposed development's zoning district.
      (C)   Cluster subdivisions shall be adequately buffered from adjacent
conventional subdivisions in accordance with
Chapter 7 based on lot size.
      (D)   Once the development is approved and platted, there shall be no
further subdivision of land to obtain additional lots. However, easements for
public utilities may be permitted.
   8.4.8   Provision and Maintenance of Open Space and Facilities
      (A)   Bonus Open Space Requirements
         All bonus open space provided must meet the following standards:
         (1)   Bonus open space shall be retained in a natural, undisturbed
state, with the exception of those activities allowed by this Section. No more
than five percent (5%) of the bonus open space areas may be disturbed and
allowed to be planted with grass or other pervious ground cover if the area
provides common informal gardens and/or play/open areas for the development.
The five percent (5%) does not include disturbed areas due to the installation
of required pedestrian systems (e.g., sidewalks, trails). Active recreation
facilities (e.g., basketball and tennis courts) are not permitted in the open
space used to obtain additional lots.
          (2)   The cluster subdivision must, at a minimum, provide an eighty
(80) foot deep Type A opaque streetscape buffer along all of the subdivision's
thoroughfare and collector road frontage. The amount of the eighty (80) foot
deep streetscape buffer that is in excess of the amount of streetscape buffer
required for a conventional subdivision under the requirements of
Chapter 7 (See Section
7.2.4) qualifies as contributing bonus open space.
         (3)   Bonus open space used to obtain additional lots shall be no less
than thirty (30) feet in width at any point.
         (4)   Pedestrian access trails to the open space areas shall be
provided.
         (5)   No portion of the bonus open space shall be separated into non-
contiguous segments smaller than thirty percent (30%) of the total bonus open
space area. Open space divided by a roadway shall be defined as contiguous.
         (6)   The bonus open space shall be shown on the development plan,
with a notation to indicate that the bonus open space shall not be used for
future structures.
         (7)   The developer shall establish and incorporate a Homeowner's
Association (HOA), which shall have the responsibility for maintaining the
bonus open space and associated facilities at its own expense. As an
alternative to an HOA, a private, non-profit organization, whose primary
purpose is open space conservation or preservation can own and manage the open
space within a cluster housing development.
         (8)   A portion or all of the bonus open space may be conveyed to the
Town for use as greenways and parkland, provided it meets Town standards for
such facilities and is agreed to by the Town. Such conveyance would occur at no
cost to the Town.
(Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-02, 3-26-09; Ord. No. 2016-
LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-16-23)
8.5   ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT OPTION: TRADITIONAL NEIGHBORHOOD DEVELOPMENT
   8.5.1   Purpose
   The Traditional Neighborhood Development concept is offered as an
alternative to conventional development under the Planned Development (PD)
district provisions, as well as under the Mixed Use Center Overlay. The purpose
of the Traditional Neighborhood development and design standards established in
this section is to allow and encourage the development of mixed use, small-lot,
pedestrian-oriented communities. Traditional neighborhood development promotes
the diversification and integration of land uses within close proximity to each
other. As a result, such development provides opportunities to achieve the
following objectives:
      (A)   To preserve and promote Cary's identity and sense of community
through enhancement and reinforcement of the Town's unique character and small-
town atmosphere.
      (B)   To allow greater design flexibility and cost-efficiency in the
siting, provision, and maintenance of services and infrastructure, including
the opportunity to reduce the length of roads and utility runs.
      (C)   To reduce the potential for adverse impacts of new development on
surrounding properties, the natural environment, the general public, and the
business economy through the minimization of suburban sprawl.
      (D)   To reduce traffic congestion and vehicle miles of travel by
minimizing the need for automobile trips, freeing up arterial capacity, and
enhancing pedestrian and bicycle mobility.
      (E)   To preserve and improve property values and protect private and
public investment through the preservation of open space, the protection of
existing tree canopy, and planting of new vegetation as deemed appropriate.
   8.5.2   Applicability
The Traditional Neighborhood development and design standards contained in this
section shall be applied only within the Planned Development (PD) and the Mixed
Use Center Overlay districts, providing an alternative to conventional
development standards otherwise provided for in this Ordinance. All provisions
of this Ordinance shall apply to developments designed according to the
traditional neighborhood model, except as specifically provided for in this
section. When, in reviewing proposed traditional neighborhood developments, the
standards of this section may differ or be less restrictive than other
standards of the Development Ordinance, the standards of this section shall
apply.
   8.5.3   General Principles
   A TND has specific characteristics that contribute to a compact, mixed use,
pedestrian-oriented development pattern. The following general principles and
provisions shall be considered in the design and development of new residential
and non-residential developments that follow the traditional neighborhood
model.
      (A)   Neighborhood Size
         TND neighborhoods should be limited in size to encourage pedestrian
activity. Optimal size is generally measured in terms of the distance from the
center to the edge of a neighborhood, which will result in a walk of five (5)
to ten (10) minutes to meet most daily needs {'{'}an approximate distance
between one-quarter (1/4) and one-half (1/2) mile{'}'}.
      (B)   Interconnected Street Pattern
         (1)   Streets in traditional neighborhood developments should be
designed to accommodate the needs of all modes of transportation and to have a
strong pedestrian orientation. Traditional neighborhoods usually consist of an
interconnected street pattern with short blocks, which provides multiple routes
and short walking distances. To contribute to a more dynamic street
environment, streets in TNDs should be narrower than those in conventional
developments, with sidewalks at the curb, on-street parallel parking, and,
where appropriate, rear lanes for access.
         (2)   The design of thoroughfares and collectors shall be consistent
with the Cary Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
      (C)   Mix of Land Uses and Diversity of Housing Types
   TNDs should be structured to provide a balanced mix of uses, including
residential, retail, employment, civic, and recreational uses, all within the
same development. The integration of uses allows residents to meet more of
their daily needs through shorter trips. In addition, provision of a variety of
housing types shall be encouraged to allow a greater diversity of residents
within the neighborhood.
      (D)   Mixed Use Center
         TNDs are generally organized around a core, where shopping, offices,
and public facilities are located.
      (E)   Civic Buildings and Uses
         Public buildings and uses, including government offices, museums,
schools, and libraries, serve as focal points and landmarks for the community
within TNDs and should be located on prominent sites.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7797.jpg]
Civic Buildings and Uses
      (F)   Public Spaces
         The design of TNDs should give priority to open space, which should be
located throughout the development to compensate for the smaller lot sizes
normally associated with traditional neighborhood models. Open space should be
designed in a hierarchy of formal and informal spaces and used to enhance
community activity, identity, and civic pride. The Village Center should
include one (1) or more public spaces (e.g., plazas or village greens) as focal
points.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-18894.jpg]
Location of Buildings and Relationship between Buildings
      (G)   Location of Buildings and Relationship Between Buildings
   In TNDs, private buildings should be used to define the street edge and the
distinction between the public domain of the street and the private space of
individual lots. To this end, buildings should have a fairly consistent, narrow
setback alignment along the street frontage, but in all cases, building
separation distances shall meet the minimum requirements of the NC State
Building Code.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7801.jpg]
Relationship between Building Types
      (H)   Relationship Between Building Types
   Buildings in TNDs should be built on a human scale and designed with a
common, harmonious architectural vocabulary and landscaping to lend an intimate
and personal feel to the streetscape. The intent should not be to create a
uniform appearance, but rather a distinct sense of place.
   8.5.4   Development Standards
   In addition to adhering to the previous general principles, projects
submitted as TNDs shall comply with the following standards.
      (A)   Minimum Development Size
         A TND shall comprise an area of not less than ten (10) contiguous
acres. (For the purposes of this section, a property that is split by a public
roadway shall be considered contiguous.) Larger TNDs may be designed to include
several distinct neighborhoods in order to maintain a pedestrian orientation.
      (B)   Permitted Types and Mix of Land Uses
         (1)   TNDs, by design, provide opportunities for diversification and
integration of land uses in a balanced mix. However, the extent of
diversification and integration may be limited by the size of the development,
based on use-specific land or population-based needs.
         (2)   Notwithstanding Section
8.5.4(B)(1) above, a minimum of fifteen (15) percent of the land area
throughout a TND shall be devoted to non-residential uses, including, but not
necessarily limited to open space and civic uses. Such uses shall be located
within walking distance of residential uses or areas.
         (3)   Mixed residential and non-residential uses are encouraged within
a single project or structure, particularly integrated or vertical mixed use
projects, in which uses are located on different floors of a single structure.
Residential uses that are part of a vertical-mixed use project located within a
TND shall be permitted as-of-right, provided that the project otherwise meets
other applicable requirements.
         (4)   To encourage a diversity of residents, while at the same time
preventing visual monotony in neighborhoods, no single housing type may
comprise more than twenty- five (25) percent of a TND, unless the applicant can
demonstrate that a less diverse mix is more appropriate.
      (C)   Permitted Densities
         The specific maximum density that would be appropriate in a given area
will depend on the anticipated transportation, environmental, and
infrastructure impacts of a specific development. Therefore, the maximum
permitted densities and total number of dwelling units shall be established
during the development review process. Requests for density increases shall be
submitted at the time of development application.
      (D)   Dimensional Standards
         In order to promote flexibility and creativity of design, dimensional
requirements are not explicitly defined for TNDs. Bearing in mind that one
intent of the TND is to encourage a pedestrian scale and urban level of
activity, the determination of appropriate setbacks, building heights, and
maximum lot coverage for specific uses within a TND may be made through the
Planned Development (PD) and/or site-specific review process. However, the
following should be considered as general guidelines in establishing
dimensional requirements for development in specific TND projects:
         (1)   Build-to/maximum setback lines that establish a strong street
edge by bringing buildings to or close to the sidewalk line are encouraged.
         (2)   Where setbacks are established they shall apply only to the
enclosed portions of a building. Front porches and stoops, canopies, and
colonnades shall be allowed to encroach into the setback, where a setback may
be required. Balconies may encroach up to five (5) feet beyond the lot line.
         (3)   The maximum dwelling footprint shall not exceed fifty (50)
percent of the lot, except that attached dwelling structures may exceed this
figure if at least thirty (30) percent of the lot area is developed as private,
landscaped open space.
         (4)   The maximum non-residential structure footprint shall not exceed
sixty (60) percent of the lot, unless a minimum of fifteen (15) percent of the
lot area is developed as private, landscaped open space.
         (5)   In all cases, the building separation distances shall meet the
minimum requirements of the NC State Building Code.
      (E)   Additional Standards
         (1)   Generally, similar uses (uses within the same land use category;
i.e., residential, institutional, commercial,) shall face each other across
streets, whereas dissimilar but adjacent uses shall abut at rear lot lines.
Landscape buffers between dissimilar uses shall be provided in accordance with
the provisions of Section
7.2.3(B).
         (2)   All developments over fifty (50) acres shall preserve/establish,
to the maximum extent feasible, a greenbelt around the perimeter of the
development, pursuant to Section
7.2.3(B). The perimeter greenbelt provides both a buffer and a definable edge
between the TND and adjacent developments. However, the requirement for
greenbelts may be waived in infill areas in order to maintain the continuity of
the urban fabric.
         (3)   The development plan shall designate the general location of
publicly or privately owned civic lots for civic buildings and uses, including
public monuments or gateways into an ensuing space, as the terminus of street
vistas for all major internal streets. In addition, public buildings and uses
shall be located fronting on or adjacent to a square, plaza, or village green
whenever possible.
         (4)   TND developments may utilize Section
9.6 of this Ordinance as it relates to signage.
   8.5.5   Design Standards
   The design of buildings, streets and streetscapes, landscapes, and open
spaces in TND projects shall be consistent with the standards contained in this
Ordinance, and the Town’s Site Design Standards, Community_Appearance_Manual,
and Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual, as applicable.
   8.5.6   Approval Process
      TNDs shall be approved using the process for rezoning to PDD or MXD, set
forth in Section
3.4.3 or
4.5.2.
(Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, passed 6-13-13; Ord. No.
2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-
28-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23)
Chapter 9:   SIGNS
9.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
9.1.1   Purposes and Effects
   (A)   Purpose, Intent and Scope
   (B)   Relationship to Comprehensive Plan
   (C)   Effect
   
9.1.2   Rules of Interpretation
   (A)   Meanings of Words and Phrases
   (B)   Relationship to Land Development Ordinance and Town Code
   
9.1.3   Definitions
   
9.1.4   Applicability
   (A)   General
   (B)   Signs Exempt from Regulations
   (C)   Prohibited Signs
   (D)   Transitional Provisions
   
9.1.5   Calculations and Measurement
   (A)   Sign Area Calculations
   (B)   Sign Height Computation
   (C)   Building Frontage
   (D)   Roofing Elements
   
9.1.6   Plans and Permits Required
   (A)   Sign Permits
   (B)   Building Permits
   (C)   Electrical Permits
   
9.1.7   Consent of Legal Owner of Property
   
9.1.8   Sign Maintenance
   
9.1.9   Violations; Enforcement; Removal of Certain Signs
   (A)    General
   (B)   Removal of Signs Creating Traffic Hazard
   (C)   Removal of Unauthorized Signs in Public Right-of-Way
   (D)   Removal of Discontinued Signs
   (E)   Removal of Unsafe Signs
   
9.1.10   Viewpoint Neutrality
   
9.1.11   Substitution of Messages
   
9.1.12   Severability
   (A)   Generally
   (B)   Severability where less speech results
   (C)   Severability of provisions pertaining to prohibited signs
   (D)   Severability of prohibition on billboards
9.2   PERMANENT SIGNS
   
9.2.1   Applicability
   
9.2.2   Sign Materials
   
9.2.3   Sign Color
   (A)   Number of Colors
   (B)   Color Options
   (C)   Prohibited Colors
   
9.2.4   Illumination
   (A)   Uniformity
   (B)   External Illumination
   (C)   Internally-illuminated Cabinet Signs
   
9.2.5   Permanent Sign Types and Applicable Standards on Property Not
Containing a Single-Unit Residence or Duplex
   (A)   Awning Sign
   (B)   Directional Sign
   (C)   Permanent Flagpoles with Flags
   (D)   Incidental Sign
   (E)   Drive-through Lane Sign
   (F)   Principal Ground Sign
   (G)   Entry Monument Alternative to Principal Ground Sign
   (H)   New Construction Alternative to Principal Ground Sign
   (I)   Projecting Sign
   (J)   Suspended Sign
   (K)   Verandah Sign
   (L)   Wall Sign
   (M)   Façade Renovation Alternative to Permanent Wall Sign
   (N)   New Business Alternative to Permanent Wall Sign
   (O)   Window Sign
   (P)   Mailbox Sign
   
9.2.6   Permanent Sign Types and Applicable Standards Allowed Only in Town
Center and Mixed Use Overlay Districts, on Property Not Containing a Single-
Unit Residence or Duplex
   (A)   Wall Sign at Entrance to Restaurant or Café
   (B)   Neon Sign
   
9.2.7   Permanent Sign Types and Applicable Standards on Property Containing a
Single-Unit Residence or Duplex
   (A)   Permanent Flagpoles with Flags
   (B)   Wall Signs
   (C)   Incidental Signs
   (D)   Window Signs
   
9.2.8   Master Sign Plans
   (A)   Required
   (B)   Relation to Other Sections of This Ordinance
   (C)   Elements
   (D)   Allocation of Sign Area in Multi-tenant Developments
   (E)   Amendment Procedures
   (F)   Effect
   
9.2.9   Non-conformities
   (A)   Non-conforming Signs
   (B)   Signs for Non-conforming Uses
9.3   TEMPORARY SIGNS
   
9.3.1   Applicability
   
9.3.2   General Design Requirements
   
9.3.3   Permitted Temporary Signs
   (A)   A-Frame Signs
   (B)   Other Temporary Signs
9.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   9.1.1   Purposes and Effects
      (A)   Purpose, Intent, and Scope
         It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare through reasonable, consistent, and non-discriminatory sign
regulations. The sign regulations in this chapter are not intended to censor
speech or to regulate viewpoints, but instead are intended to regulate the
adverse secondary effects of signs. The sign regulations are especially
intended to address the secondary effects that may adversely impact aesthetics
and traffic and pedestrian safety. The sign regulations are designed to serve
substantial governmental interests and, in some cases, compelling governmental
interests such as traffic safety and warning signs of threats to bodily injury
or death. This article is not intended to extend its regulatory regime to
objects that are not traditionally considered signs for purpose of government
regulation.
         In order to preserve and promote the Town of Cary as a desirable
community in which to live, vacation, and do business, a pleasing, visually
attractive environment is of foremost importance. The regulation of signs
within the Town is a highly contributive means by which to achieve this desired
end. Further it continues to be the purpose of this
Chapter 9 to promote optimum conditions for serving sign owners' needs and
respecting their rights to identification while balancing the aesthetic
interests of the community. The regulation of signs within the Town is
necessary and in the public interest and these regulations have been prepared
with the intent of enhancing the visual environment of the Town and promoting
its continued well-being, and are intended more specifically to further the
following interests:
         (1)   Aesthetics
            To maintain and enhance the beauty, unique character, aesthetic
environment, and quality of the Town of Cary, that will attract commerce,
businesses, economic development, residents, and visitors; to preserve,
conserve, protect, and enhance the aesthetic quality and scenic beauty of all
zoning districts of the Town; to regulate the appearance and design of signs in
a manner that promotes and enhances the beautification of the Town and that
complements the natural surroundings in recognition of the Town's reliance on
its natural surroundings and beautification efforts in retaining economic
advantage for its community; and to assure that the benefits derived from the
expenditure of public funds for the improvement and beautification of streets,
sidewalks, public parks, public rights-of-way, and other public places and
spaces, are protected by exercising reasonable controls over the physical
characteristics and structural design of signs.
         (2)   Traffic and Pedestrian Safety
            To improve traffic and pedestrian safety through properly located
signs; to regulate signs in a manner so as to not interfere with, obstruct the
vision of, or distract motorists, bicyclists or pedestrians; to allow for
traffic control devices consistent with national standards and whose purpose is
to promote highway safety and efficiency by providing for the orderly movement
of road users on streets and highways, and that notify road users of
regulations and provide warning and guidance necessary for the safe, uniform,
and efficient operation of all elements of the traffic stream.
         (3)   Economic Development
            To promote economic development and the value of commercial and
residential properties, through sensitivity to surrounding land uses and
maintaining an attractive community appearance.
         (4)   Effective Communication
            To encourage signs which are clear and legible; to encourage the
effective use of signs as a means of communication.
         (5)   Historical Character
            To emphasize the Town's historical character by promoting
pedestrian oriented and appropriately scaled signage.
         (6)   Identification of Goods and Services
            To aid the public and private sectors in providing signage that
could be used to identify the location of goods and services.
         (7)   Compatibility with Surroundings
            To allow signs that are compatible with their surroundings and aid
orientation, while precluding the placement of signs that contribute to sign
clutter or that conceal or obstruct adjacent land uses or signs; to preclude
signs from conflicting with the principal permitted use of the site and
adjoining sites; and to minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby
public and private property.
         (8)   Reduction of Visual Clutter
            To reduce visual clutter that may otherwise be caused by the
proliferation, improper placement, illumination, animation, excessive height,
and excessive size (area) of signs which compete for the attention of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
         (9)   Use Considerations
            To encourage and allow signs that are appropriate to the use of the
property on which they are located.
         (10)   Scale, Integration and Design
            To establish sign size in relationship to the scale of the lot and
building on which the sign is to be placed or to which it pertains; to foster
the integration of signage with architectural and landscape designs; to provide
flexibility and encourage variety in signage, and create an incentive to relate
signage to the basic principles of good design; and to promote the use of signs
that positively contribute to the aesthetics of the community, are appropriate
in scale to the surrounding buildings and landscape, and advance the Town's
goals of quality development.
         (11)   Maintenance and Safety
            Except to the extent expressly preempted by state or federal law,
to ensure that signs are constructed, installed and maintained in a safe and
satisfactory manner, and to protect the public from unsafe signs.
         (12)   Property Values
            To protect property values by precluding, to the maximum extent
possible, sign types that create a nuisance to the occupancy or use of other
properties as a result of their physical characteristics such as their size
(area), height, number, illumination, and movement; and to protect property
values by ensuring that the number of signs are in harmony with buildings,
neighborhoods, and conforming signs in the area.
         (13)   Enforcement
            To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign
regulations; and to provide standards regarding the non-communicative aspects
of signs, which are consistent with local, state, and federal law.
      (B)   Relationship to Comprehensive Plan
         A major emphasis of the Town's Comprehensive Plan is on the design of
the community. In particular, the Comprehensive Plan emphasizes preserving and
maintaining Cary's attractive appearance, with attention to the appearance of,
and views from, public spaces, while also encouraging high quality and
attractive development.
      (C)   Effect
         The effect of this chapter, as more specifically set forth herein, is:
         (1)   to establish a system to allow a variety of types of permanent
signs, subject to the standards and the permit procedures of this chapter;
         (2)   to allow certain permanent signs that are small, unobtrusive and
incidental to the principal use of the respective lot or parcel on which they
are located, subject to the substantive requirements of this chapter, but
without a requirement for permits;
         (3)   to provide greater flexibility in special areas of interest and/
or higher densities such as the Town Center, Mixed Use Overlay Districts,
National Register Historic Districts or traditional neighborhood developments;
         (4)   to provide for temporary signs in limited circumstances; and
         (5)   to provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter.
   9.1.2   Rules of Interpretation
      (A)   Meanings of Words and Phrases
         Words and phrases not defined in this chapter but defined elsewhere in
the LDO or Town Code shall be given the meanings set forth there. All other
words and phrases shall be given their common, ordinary meanings, unless the
context clearly requires otherwise. Section headings or captions are for
reference purposes only and shall not be used in the interpretation of this
chapter. Illustrations included in the code shall be used in interpreting the
relevant provisions, but where the text conflicts with an illustration, the
text shall control.
      (B)   Relationship to Land Development Ordinance and Town Code
         To the maximum extent practicable, this chapter shall be interpreted
in accordance with rules of interpretation and construction and definitions
provided in this Ordinance and Town Code. In case of conflict among them,
however, this shall be the order of priority in selecting among apparently
conflicting provisions:
         (1)   Where this chapter directly addresses an issue, it shall control
over any conflicts;
         (2)   Where this chapter does not directly address an issue or is
unclear, the other chapters of this Ordinance shall control over other
provisions of the Town Code; and
         (3)   Where neither this chapter nor other chapters of this Ordinance
directly addresses or resolves an issue of interpretation or construction, then
this chapter shall be interpreted in the context of the Town Code.
   9.1.3   Definitions
      The following terms shall be defined as follows:
      Artwork means a two- (2-) or three- (3-) dimensional representation of a
creative idea that is expressed in a form and manner as to provide aesthetic
enjoyment for the viewer rather than to specifically convey the name of the
business or a commercial message about the products or services offered on the
property upon which the artwork is displayed.
      Banner means a sign made of wind and weather resistant cloth or other
lightweight material, intended to hang either with or without frames or in some
other manner as not to be wind activated, and possessing characters, letters,
illustrations, or ornamentations applied to paper, plastic or fabric of any
kind. Flags shall not be considered banners.
      Beacon means any light with one (1) or more beams directed into the
atmosphere or directed at one (1) or more points not on the same site as the
light source; also, any light with one (1) or more beams that rotate or move.
      Billboard means a sign structure and/or sign utilized to display a
commercial message or provide commercial advertising for an establishment, an
activity, a product, service or entertainment, which is sold, produced,
manufactured, available or furnished at a place other than on the property on
which said sign and/or sign structure is located.
      Commercial Message means any sign wording, copy, logo, or other
representation or image that directly or indirectly names, advertises, or calls
attention to a product, commodity, service, sale, sales event, activity,
entertainment, or other commercial activity.
      Flag means any fabric or bunting containing distinct colors, patterns, or
symbols, used as an ornamental flag or as a symbol that does not contain a
commercial message, and that is displayed on a flagpole. (See also Flag,
Ornamental).
      Flag, Ornamental means any fabric or similar material containing
patterns, drawings, or symbols used for decorative purposes and designed to be
flown as a flag.
      Flagpole means a pole on which to raise or display a flag.
      Pennant means any series of small flag-like or streamer-like pieces of
cloth, plastic, paper, or similar material attached in a row to any staff,
cord, building, or at only one (1) or two (2) edges, the remainder hanging
loosely.
      Permanent Sign means any sign which, when installed, is intended for
permanent use. Any sign with an intended use in excess of twelve (12) months
from the date of installation, unless otherwise stated in Section
9.3, shall be deemed a permanent sign.
      Sign means any device, fixture, placard, or structure, that uses any
color, form, graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing to advertise, attract
attention, announce the purpose of, or identify the purpose of a person or
entity, or to communicate information of any kind to the public. The following
shall not be considered signs subject to the regulations of
Chapter 9 of this Ordinance: artwork, cemetery markers, machinery or equipment
signs, lighting used to accentuate architectural or landscaping features, and
holiday and seasonal decorations.
      Sign, A-Frame means a portable sign utilizing an upright, rigid
supporting frame in the form of a triangle or an inverted "V" style of framing
to support the sign.
      Sign, Animated means a sign which includes action, motion, or color
changes, or the optical illusion of action, motion, or color changes, including
signs set in motion by movement of the atmosphere, or made up of a series of
sections that turn.
      Sign, Canopy
      Any sign that is a part of or attached to a structural protective cover
over a door, entrance, window or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a
canopy sign.
      Sign, Changeable Copy means a sign designed so that letters, numbers,
symbols and other similar characters attached to the sign can be changed
manually in the field to indicate a different message.
      Sign, Digital means a sign capable of displaying words, symbols, or
images that can be electronically or mechanically changed by remote, automatic,
or electrical means.
      Sign, Discontinued means a sign or sign structure whose owner has failed
to operate and maintain said sign or sign structure for a period of ninety (90)
days or longer. The following conditions shall be considered the failure to
operate or maintain a sign or sign structure: (1) a sign displaying advertising
for a product or service which is no longer available or displaying advertising
for a business which is no longer operating; or (2) a sign which is blank.
      Sign, Electronic Changeable Message means an electronically-activated
sign or any portion thereof whose message content of display, either whole or
in part, may be changed by means of electrical, electronic, or computerized
programming; an "electronic changeable message sign" includes a sign or any
portion thereof that displays electronic, non-pictorial, text information in
which each alphanumeric character, graphic, or symbol is defined by a small
number of matrix elements using different combinations of light-emitting diodes
(LEDs), fiber optics, light bulbs, or other illumination devices within the
display area. An "electronic changeable message sign" includes a digital sign.
Drive-through Lane signs shall not be considered electronic changeable message
signs.
      Sign, Feather means a sign extending in a sleeve-like fashion down a
telescoping or fixed pole that is mounted in the ground or on a building or
stand. A feather sign is usually shaped like a sail or feather, and attached to
the pole support on one (1) vertical side.
      Sign, Flashing means a sign which permits light to be turned on or off
intermittently more frequently than once per minute, or any illuminated sign on
which such illumination is not kept stationary or constant in intensity and
color at all times when such sign is in use, including an LED (light emitting
diode) or digital sign.
      Sign, Holographic Display means an advertising display that creates a
three (3)-dimensional image through projection, OLED (organic light emitting
diode), or any similar technology.
      Sign, Intermittent means a sign which permits light to be turned on or
off intermittently more frequently than once every twelve (12) hours or which
is operated in a way whereby light is turned off or on intermittently or which
varies in intensity or color more frequently than once every twelve (12) hours,
including any illuminated sign on which such illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity or color at all times when the sign is in
use, including but not limited to an LED (light emitting diode) or digital
sign.
      Sign, Machinery or Equipment means a sign incorporated into machinery or
equipment by a manufacturer or distributor, that functions only to identify or
advertise the product or service dispensed by the machine or equipment, such as
signs customarily affixed to vending machines, newspaper racks, telephone
booths, and gasoline pumps.
      Sign, Moving means any sign in which the sign itself or any portion of it
physically moves or revolves.
      Sign, Neon means any electric discharge tubing manufactured into shapes
that form letters, parts of letters, skeleton tubing, outline lighting, or
other decorative elements, and filled with various inert gases.
      Sign, Off-site means any sign that is used to attract attention to an
object, person, product, institution, organization, business, service, event,
or location that is not located on the premises upon which the sign is located.
This shall not include traffic, directional, or regulatory signs or notices
erected by a federal, state, county, or municipal government agency.
      Sign, Pole means any sign which is mounted on a freestanding pole or
poles, or other support structure such that the bottom edge of the sign face is
forty-two (42) inches or more above the adjacent grade or roadway crown height.
      Sign, Portable means any sign not permanently attached to the ground or
other permanent structure or a sign designed to be transported, including, but
not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs made
as A-frames or T-frames; balloons used as signs, umbrellas used for commercial
messages; and signs attached to or painted on vehicles or trailers parked and
visible from the public right-of-way.
      Sign, Projecting means a sign attached to a building wall and extending
laterally more than eighteen (18) inches from the face of such wall.
      Sign, Scrolling means a sign that, by mechanical or electronic means,
displays a message that moves up, down, or across a display screen or surface.
      Sign, Snipe means a sign made of any material when such sign is tacked,
nailed, posted, pasted, glued or otherwise attached to or placed on public
property such as but not limited to a public utility pole, a public street
sign, a public utility box, a public fire hydrant, a public right-of-way,
public street furniture, or other public property; except for A-frame signs
that are temporarily placed on public property under such limitations and
constraints as may be set forth in this Chapter.
      Sign, Suspended means a sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and supported by such surface.
      Sign, Temporary means a sign intended for a use not permanent in nature.
For the purposes of this
Chapter 9, a sign which is intended for use of one (1) year or less, unless
otherwise allowed in this
Chapter 9 shall be deemed a temporary sign.
      Sign, Vehicular means a sign which is attached to, mounted, pasted,
painted, or drawn on a vehicle and covers more than four (4) square feet of the
vehicle.
      Sign, Verandah means a sign consisting of freestanding letters or numbers
and located above the outer fascia of a verandah or balcony which does not
exceed the highest point of the building roofline.
      Sign, Wall means any sign painted on or attached to and extending not
more than six (6) inches from an exterior wall in a parallel manner.
      Sign, Windblown means a sign which uses objects or materials fastened in
such a manner as to move upon being subjected to pressure by wind, and shall
include pennants, ribbons, spinners, streamers, or captive balloons; however,
the term windblown sign shall not include flags.
      Sign, Window means any sign painted on, attached to, or displayed in a
window so as to direct attention of persons outside the building to a product
or activity on the premises.
   9.1.4   Applicability
      (A)   General
         This
Chapter 9 applies to signs on property located in all zoning districts.
         A sign may be erected, placed, established, painted, created or
maintained in the Town only in conformance with the standards, procedures,
exemptions and other requirements of this chapter. Signs exempt from regulation
under Section
9.1.4(B) shall not otherwise be subject to this Chapter.
      (B)   Signs Exempt From Regulations
         The following signs shall be exempt from regulation under this
Chapter:
         (1)   Any official or public notice or warning sign required by a
valid and applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation or chapter; by a
public utility company; or by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (2)   Any sign located within the right-of-way or on private property
that is used as a traffic control device. This includes, but is not limited to,
any sign that is described and identified in the Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD) and approved by the Federal Highway Administrator as
the National Standard, regulatory signs (that give notice of traffic laws or
regulations), warning signs (that give notice of a situation that might not
readily be apparent), and guide signs (that show route designations,
directions, distances, services, points of interest, and other geographical,
recreational, or cultural information).
         (3)   Any sign, other than a window sign, inside a building, that is
not visible from off the site on which it is located.
         (4)   Any sign inside a breezeway or entranceway, under the roof and
within the foundation line of the building but outside the actual entrance
door, where such sign cannot be seen by a person of ordinary eyesight who is
not under the roof of the building or is otherwise outside the building.
         (5)   Any sign inside an athletic field or other enclosed outdoor
space, where the sign is not legible from more than three (3) feet beyond the
lot line of the site on which it is located.
         (6)   Signs erected by or on behalf of a governmental or quasi-
governmental agency including, but not limited to, noncommercial signs
identifying a government building or service, traffic control signs, street
name signs, street address signs, warning signs, safety signs, informational
signs, traffic or other directional signs, public notices of events, public
notice of government actions, proposed changes of land use, any proposed
rezoning, or any other government speech.
         (7)   Signs on single-use sites, where the sign is not visible from a
public right-of-way or adjacent residential property.
         (8)   One (1) building marker or engraved cornerstone per building,
containing no logo or commercial message and made of a permanent material that
is permanently attached to or incorporated into the building wall.
         (9)   A sign on a vehicle, other than a prohibited Vehicular Sign or
Signs.
      (C)   Prohibited Signs
         The following signs are specifically prohibited, unless specified
otherwise in this Chapter:
         (1)   Any sign that copies or imitates an official sign or purports to
have official status.
         (2)   Beacons.
         (3)   Windblown signs.
         (4)   Pennants.
         (5)   Canopy signs.
         (6)   Animated signs.
         (7)   Portable signs.
         (8)   Any sign that obstructs or substantially interferes with any
window, door, fire escape, stairway, ladder, or opening intended to provide
light, air, ingress, or egress to any building.
         (9)   Off site signs, billboards, and pole signs.
         (10)   Discontinued signs, including all structural, support, and
other related elements.
         (11)   Signs made wholly or partially of highly reflective material,
so as to generate a contrast between the sign and adjacent surfaces or the
surrounding area.
         (12)   Signs on roofs.
         (13)   Signs located in the clear sight triangle as defined by the
Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
         (14)   Signs erected or lighted in such a manner or in such location
as to obstruct the view of, or be confused with, any authorized traffic signal,
notice or control device.
         (15)   Signs in the public right-of-way, except for the following:
            (a)   Signs on awnings per Section
9.2.5(A);
            (b)   Projecting Signs per Section
9.2.5(I);
            (c)   Suspended Signs per Section
9.2.5(J);
            (d)   Signage on marquees per Section
9.2.5(L); and
            (e)   Principal Ground Signs at the entrance of residential and
non-residential subdivisions per Section
9.2.5(F).
         (16)   Neon signs located in such a manner as to attract public
attention from outside the building except as permitted in Section
9.2.6(B).
         (17)   Vehicular Signs when the vehicle is parked such that the sign
is visible from a right-of-way within one hundred (100) feet of the vehicle,
except where there is no reasonable alternative location on the site to park
the vehicle.
         (18)   Feather signs.
         (19)   Electronic changeable message signs.
         (20)   Digital signs.
         (21)   Intermittent signs.
         (22)    Flashing signs.
         (23)   Any freestanding sign, with exception of an entry monument
alternative to a principal ground sign, that is more than six (6) feet above
the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign. The foregoing
maximum sign height limitation, which applies under all circumstances except as
noted herein, does not preclude the more restrictive sign height limitations as
set forth in Section
9.2 or
9.3 of this Chapter.
         (24)   Any wall sign that is greater than the lesser of three (3)
square feet per linear foot of building frontage, or ten percent (10%) of the
wall area to which the sign is affixed. The foregoing maximum sign area
limitation, which applies under all circumstances except as noted herein, does
not preclude the more restrictive sign area limitations as set forth in Section
9.2 or
9.3 of this Chapter.
         (25)   Any sign which emits a sound, odor, or visible matter.
         (26)   Snipe signs.
         (27)   Holographic Display Signs.
         (28)   Moving Signs.
         (29)    Scrolling Signs.
         (30)   Signs attached or painted on trees, rocks or natural features.
         (31)   Ground signage placed on a supporting base for public art or on
the actual artwork.
      (D)   Transitional Provisions
         (1)   All permanent signs legally erected prior to December 8, 2016
may remain in place and in use, subject to certain restrictions on
modification, replacement and other actions affecting the sign, as set forth in
this Ordinance.
         (2)   All holders of permits for permanent signs issued legally prior
to December 8, 2016 may erect the signs that are the subject of such permits
within the times allowed by such permits, and such signs shall then be treated
as though they had been erected prior to December 8, 2016. However, such
permits may not be extended or amended unless the sign that is the subject of
such permit will conform to all of the requirements of this chapter.
         (3)   All violations of the sign regulations in effect prior to
December 8, 2016 shall remain violations of the Ordinances of the Town and all
penalties and enforcement remedies set forth hereunder shall be available to
the Town as though the violation were a violation of this chapter. However, if
the effect of this chapter is to make a permanent sign that was formerly
nonconforming become conforming, then enforcement action shall cease except to
the extent of collecting penalties (other than the removal of the permanent
sign) for violations that occurred prior to December 8, 2016.
   9.1.5   Calculation and Measurement
      (A)   Sign Area Calculations
         (1)   Area Computation of Individual Signs
            The allowable sign area for permanent signs shall be calculated as
provided below:
            (a)   General Requirements
               The area of a sign face (which is also the sign area of a wall
sign or other sign with only one (1) face) shall be computed by encompassing
the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem or other display,
together with any material or color forming an integral part of the background
of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure
against which it is placed, into no more than two (2) abutting rectangles, one
(1) of which shall encompass a minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the
total sign area. The area of sign face of distinct individual signs shall be
separately measured in accordance with the above methodology.
            (b)   Exceptions to General Requirements
               (i)   Suspended and projecting signs shall be calculated
separately from other wall signs.
               (ii)   The square footage of wall signs associated with theaters
shall be counted against the total wall sign area allotment. However, each sign
shall be measured separately rather than placed together inside a rectangle.
               (iii)   Poster boxes shall be measured individually without
regard for the spaces between the individual boxes.
         (2)   Area Computation of Multi-Faced Signs
            Where the sign faces of a double-faced sign are parallel or the
interior angle formed by the faces is sixty (60) degrees or less, only one (1)
display face shall be measured in computing sign area. The areas of all faces
of a multi-faced sign shall be added together to compute the area of the sign.
Sign area of multi-faced signs is calculated based on the principle that all
sign elements that can be seen at one (1) time or from one (1) vantage point
should be considered in measuring that side of the sign. Double-faced signs
that are displayed on gateway entry monuments within Town approved area plans,
may be displayed on walls with an interior angle of up to ninety (90) degrees.
      (B)   Sign Height Computation
         The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the base
of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component of the
sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the newly established grade after
construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding or excavating solely
for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases where the normal grade is below
grade at street level, sign height shall be computed on the assumption that the
elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign is equal to the elevation
of the nearest point of the crown of a public or private street.
      (C)   Building Frontage
         Building frontage shall mean the horizontal length of a building on
the side with its principal entrance. If that side is a straight wall, then the
building frontage shall be the length of the wall. If the side is not a
straight wall, the building frontage shall be the horizontal distance from the
corner at one (1) end of the side of the building with the principal entrance
to the other corner on the same side of the building; where that side of the
building is concave, then the measurement shall be made in a straight line from
corner to corner; where the side of the building is convex or has one (1) or
more sections that project in front of the front corners, then the measurement
shall be made as the shortest distance between two (2) lines projected from the
two (2) front corners of the building, with such lines parallel to each other
and as close as practicable to perpendicular to the front of the building.
      (D)   Roofing Elements
         Roofing elements that are within thirty (30) degrees of vertical
(sometimes loosely called a "mansard roof") will be considered part of the wall
for purposes of sign placement. Signage shall not be located on portions of
other architectural design features that extend above the predominate roofline
of the building.
   9.1.6   Plans and Permits Required
      Permits are required for the following sign types: Awning, Vehicle-
Oriented Directional, Wall-Mounted Directional, Drive-through Lane, Principal
Ground, Entry Monument, New Construction Alternative, Suspended, Verandah,
Projecting, Wall (except for signs on property containing a single-unit
residence or duplex), Façade Renovation Alternative, and New Business
Alternative. No other sign types shall require a sign permit.
      (A)   Sign Permits
         If a sign requiring a permit under this chapter is to be placed,
constructed, erected or modified on a site, the owner of the lot or parcel
shall secure a sign permit prior to the construction, placement, erection or
modification of such a sign in accordance with the requirements of this chapter
and the procedure listed in Section
3.16. No sign permit shall be issued for the erection of a prohibited sign.
Until a sign permit is obtained from and the appropriate fee paid to the town,
no permanent sign shall be erected, altered, relocated, maintained or
displayed. The sign permit is in addition to any building permit required to be
obtained pursuant to the provisions of the State building code.
         No sign permit or permit fee shall be required for changing the copy
of a sign, including any change of copy on a changeable copy sign, as long as
no changes are made to the sign's height, size, location, or structure. A sign
lawfully erected may be repainted or have ordinary and customary repairs
performed, including replacement of plastic or glass panels, without a sign
permit; however, if such sign is to be structurally altered in any manner, a
new sign permit shall be required and the altered sign must meet all
requirements of this Chapter and the Land Development Ordinance.
      (B)   Building Permits
         The town has no authority to waive or provide variances to the State
building code, therefore all signs shall comply with applicable provisions of
the State building code.
      (C)   Electrical Permits
         Electric signs that have internal wiring or lighting equipment, and
external lighting equipment that directs light on signs, shall not be erected
or installed until an electrical permit has been obtained from the Inspections
and Permits Department. All such signs and equipment shall bear the seal of
approval of an electrical testing laboratory that is nationally recognized as
having the facilities for testing and requires proper installation in
accordance with the National Electrical Code. All wiring to electric signs, or
to freestanding equipment that lights a sign, shall be installed underground.
   9.1.7   Consent of Legal Owner of Property
      No sign may be displayed without the consent of the legal owner of the
property on which the sign is mounted or displayed. For purposes of this
Chapter, "owner" means the holder of the legal title to the property and any
party and person holding a present right to possession, control, or use of the
property.
   9.1.8   Sign Maintenance
      All permanent signs shall be maintained in good structural condition, in
compliance with all building and electrical codes, and in conformance with this
chapter, and shall adhere to the following provisions:
      (A)   A sign shall have no more than twenty (20) percent of its surface
area covered with disfigured, cracked, ripped or peeling paint, poster paper or
other material for a period of more than thirty (30) days.
      (B)   A sign shall not stand with bent or broken sign facing, with broken
supports, with loose appendages or struts, or more than fifteen (15) degrees
from vertical for a period of more than ten (10) days.
      (C)   A sign shall not have weeds, trees, vines, or other vegetation
growing upon it, or obscuring the view of the sign from the public right-of-way
from which it is to be viewed, for a period of more than thirty (30) days.
      (D)   An internally illuminated sign shall be allowed to stand with only
partial illumination for a period of no more than thirty (30) days.
      (E)   Flags shall not be faded, tattered, or torn.
   9.1.9   Violations; Enforcement; Removal of Certain Signs
      (A)    General
         Violations of this chapter and enforcement procedures are addressed in
Chapter 11.
      (B)   Removal of Signs Creating Traffic Hazard
         Any signs or light sources deemed to create a traffic hazard per
Sections
9.1.4(C)(13) or
9.1.4(C)(14) shall be removed at the direction of the Planning Director. If not
removed by owners or occupants of the property within ten (10) days of notice,
the Director shall cause the signs to be otherwise removed, and the cost of
removal shall become a lien against the property until satisfied.
      (C)   Removal of Unauthorized Signs in Public Right-of-Way
         Any sign placed in the public right-of-way in violation of this
Chapter 9 shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be seized by the
enforcement official or other representative of the Town, and the person owning
or placing the sign may be charged both with a violation of this chapter and
with the cost of removing and disposing of the sign.
      (D)   Removal of Discontinued Signs
         Within sixty (60) days after a sign on a permanent freestanding sign
structure or a permanent wall sign becomes a discontinued sign, it shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to remove the discontinued sign and any
associated sign structure and to patch and conceal any and all damage to any
property resulting from the removal of the discontinued sign and associated
sign structure, if any. The removal of a discontinued sign shall include all
sign support components, angle irons, poles, and other remnants of the
discontinued sign, which are not currently in use, or proposed for immediate
reuse as evidenced by a sign permit application for a permitted sign.
      (E)   Removal of Unsafe Signs
         The Planning Director, with or without notice, may secure the
immediate removal of an unsafe sign or insecure sign if in his or her judgment
and opinion the sign presents an immediate peril to the public health and
safety.
   9.1.10   Viewpoint Neutrality
      Notwithstanding anything in this
Chapter 9 or this Land Development Ordinance to the contrary, no sign or sign
structure shall be subject to any limitation based upon the viewpoint of the
message contained on such sign or displayed on such sign structure.
   9.1.11   Substitution of Messages
      Notwithstanding anything in this Chapter to the contrary, any sign
allowed under this Chapter, without a permit, by sign permit, or by variance,
may contain, in lieu of any other message or copy, any lawful noncommercial
message so long as said sign complies with the size, height, area and other
requirements of this Chapter.
   9.1.12   Severability
      (A)   Generally
         If any part, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence,
phrase, clause, term, or word of this Chapter is declared unconstitutional by
the valid judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the
declaration of such unconstitutionality shall not affect any other part,
section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term,
or word of this Chapter.
      (B)   Severability where less speech results
         Without diminishing or limiting in any way the declaration of
severability set forth above in subsection (A), above, or elsewhere in this
chapter, the LDO, or any adopting ordinance, if any part, section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of this
Chapter is declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such unconstitutionality
shall not affect any other part, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph,
sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of this Chapter, even if such
severability would result in a situation where there would be less speech,
whether by subjecting previously exempt signs to permitting or otherwise.
      (C)   Severability of provisions pertaining to prohibited signs
         Without diminishing or limiting in any way the declaration of
severability set forth above in subsection (A), above, or elsewhere in this
chapter, the LDO, or any adopting ordinance, if any part, section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of this
Chapter or any other law is declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such
unconstitutionality shall not affect any other part, section, subsection,
paragraph, subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of this
Chapter that pertains to prohibited signs, including specifically those signs
and sign types prohibited and not allowed under Section
9.1.4(C). Furthermore, if any part, section, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of Section
9.1.4(C) is declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any
court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such unconstitutionality
shall not affect any other part, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph,
sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word of Section
9.1.4(C) thereby ensuring that as many prohibited sign types as may be
constitutionally prohibited continue to be prohibited.
      (D)   Severability of prohibition on billboards
         If any part, section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, sentence,
phrase, clause, term, or word of this Chapter and/or any other LDO provisions
and/or laws are declared invalid or unconstitutional by the valid judgment or
decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, the declaration of such
unconstitutionality shall not affect the prohibition on billboards as contained
in this Chapter or this LDO.
(Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-8-16; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22)
9.2   PERMANENT SIGNS
New Ordinance Notice: 
Publisher's Note: Section 9.2 has been amended by Ord. 2023-LDO-01, approved 2/
9/2023, effective 2/9/2023.
   9.2.1   Applicability
      This Section
9.2 applies to permanent signs in all zoning districts.
   9.2.2   Sign Materials
      (A)   Except for flags permitted per Sections
9.2.5(C) and
9.2.7(A), all permanent signs shall be constructed of permanent materials and
shall be attached to the ground, a building or another structure by direct
attachment to a wall, frame or structure.
      (B)   Unless otherwise specified in a Master Sign Plan, the structural
supports and foundation of principal ground signs shall match the principal
material found in the principal structure(s) on the site.
      (C)   Background material of principal ground signs shall match the
primary material found in the principal structure(s) or be architecturally
compatible in style and color (e.g., materials such as synthetic wood and other
similar materials may be considered).
      (D)   Materials such as metal, PVC, and acrylic may be used for
individual letters and raceways.
      (E)   Changeable copy shall be allowed only on signs permitted in
accordance with Section
9.2.5 for theaters, service stations, and for property with an institutional
use provided that:
         (1)   A theater with a marquee may display changeable copy on the
marquee. A theater without a marquee may display one (1) changeable copy sign
on each wall permitted to have wall signs.
         (2)   A service station may use up to one-half (½) of the area of its
principal ground sign or one-half (½) of the area of any wall sign for
changeable copy.
         (3)   A property with an institutional use may have changeable copy on
up to fifty percent (50%) of the principal ground sign and/or the entire area
of Directional signs. When used on a principal ground sign, the materials must
follow the standards for principal ground signs stated in this chapter.
   9.2.3   Sign Color
      (A)   Number of Colors
         (1)   Permanent signs may incorporate a maximum of four (4) colors,
including background color, and excluding colors found in logos and trademarks
allowed per Section
9.2.3(B).
         (2)   The text of the primary message shall be a single color, except
where a second color is used to create an outline or shadow effect.
         (3)   The color of the text of the primary message may be altered up
to twelve (12) times per year, provided the following requirements are met:
            (a)   The wall sign is located on a single-tenant building five (5)
stories or taller; and
            (b)   All portions of the primary message display a single color at
any given time;
            (c)   The frequency of change is no shorter than eight (8) hours;
and
            (d)   A palette of up to twelve (12) sign colors for the primary
message text is approved as a component of the master sign plan for the
development. Such palette may not include high intensity or fluorescent colors.
      (B)   Color Options
         (1)   The following sign colors are allowed:
            (a)   black;
            (b)   white;
            (c)   colors found in the approved development plan and present in
the same building segment where the sign is displayed;
            (d)   one (1) color found in the approved development plan and
present in another building segment of the same development plan;
            (e)   one (1) color option to the Master Sign Plan that is not
found in the development plan but is of a similar hue and intensity as the
development plan color palette; and
            (f)   other colors in logos or trademarks provided that the size of
the logo does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the allowable sign area. The
size of the logo may be increased to seventy-five percent (75%) of the
allowable sign area provided the following standards for the logo are met:
               (i)   May not be internally illuminated;
               (ii)   Shall be three (3) dimensional;
               (iii)   Shall be made of carved or simulated carved wood, stone,
or metal; and
               (iv)   Colors used shall not be high intensity or fluorescent.
      (C)   Prohibited Colors
The use of high intensity colors or fluorescent pigments, except as part of a
logo or trademark that does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the allowable
sign area, is prohibited on permanent signs.
   9.2.4   Illumination
      (A)   Uniformity
         Lighting on permanent signs shall be consistent throughout a project,
and no permanent sign or portion thereof shall be illuminated differently from
any other permanent sign, unless provided for with an approved Master Sign Plan
and Development Plan in which there is variety in façade design or building
type.
      (B)   External Illumination
         Exterior illumination of permitted permanent signs shall be allowed
except where prohibited for specific sign types in Section
9.2. Such lighting shall be directed only upon the sign face and architectural
elements of the sign structure, and shall be directed to prevent off-site
glare.
      (C)   Internally-illuminated Cabinet Signs
         Internally-illuminated cabinet signs shall be allowed as provided
below:
         (1)   Principal Ground Signs: A single enclosed internally-illuminated
cabinet containing all sign text, logos and symbols may be incorporated into a
principal ground sign subject to the following:
            (a)   Only the sign text and logos may be illuminated.
            (b)   The total area of the logo(s) shall not exceed twenty percent
(20%) of the allowable sign area.
            (c)   Background material shall be opaque and meet requirements of
Section
9.2.2.
         (2)   Wall Signs:
            (a)   A single enclosed internally-illuminated cabinet containing a
logo may be incorporated into a wall sign subject to the following:
               (i)   The total area of the logo cabinet shall not exceed twenty
percent (20%) of the allowable sign area.
            (b)   Internally-illuminated enclosed cabinets (such as pill signs)
may be permitted as a component of a wall sign subject to the following:
               (i)   the principal sign message consists of internally-
illuminated channel letters attached directly to the building wall, or on a
raceway;
               (ii)   the background of the cabinet-type sign component is
opaque, except where the sign message is a logo or trademark; or the sign is a
theatre marquee sign or poster box per Section
9.2.5(L)(4).
               (iii)   the combined area of such cabinet component shall not
exceed one-third (1/3) of the total area of the wall sign;
               (iv)   such signs are included in and comply with an approved
uniform sign plan, where such plan is applicable; and
               (v)   construction methods and materials are consistent with the
associated channel letters.
         (3)   Pedestrian-oriented directional ground signs may be internally-
illuminated.
         (4)   All other internally-illuminated cabinet-style ground and wall
signs shall be prohibited.
   9.2.5   Permanent Sign Types and Applicable Standards on Property Not
Containing a Single-Unit Residence or Duplex
      The following sign types are permitted on property located in all zoning
districts, except lots or parcels containing a single-unit residence or duplex.
Permanent signs shall be permitted in accordance with
Table 9.2-1, subject to the applicable standards of this Section
9.2.5 and the provisions of any Master Sign Plan applicable to the site.
TABLE 9.2-1: TABLE OF PERMANENT SIGN TYPES ALLOWED ON PROPERTY NOT
CONTAINING A SINGLE-UNIT RESIDENCE OR DUPLEX
Sign Type Sign Permit Conditions
TABLE 9.2-1: TABLE OF PERMANENT SIGN TYPES ALLOWED ON PROPERTY NOT CONTAINING A
SINGLE-UNIT RESIDENCE OR DUPLEX
Sign Type                                             Sign Permit  Conditions
Awning Sign                                           Required     9.2.5(A)
                 Vehicle-oriented Directional Ground  Required     9.2.5 (B)(1)
                 Sign
Directional Sign Wall-Mounted Directional Sign        Required     9.2.5 (B)(2)
                 Pedestrian-oriented Directional      Not Required 9.2.5 (B)(3)
                 Ground Sign
Permanent Flagpoles With Flags                        Not Required 9.2.5 (C)
Incidental Sign                                       Not Required 9.2.5 (D)
Drive-through Lane Sign                               Required     9.2.5 (E)
Principal Ground Sign                                 Required     9.2.5(F)
Entry Monument Alternative to Principal Ground Sign   Required     9.2.5 (G)
New Construction Alternative to Permanent Ground Sign Required     9.2.5 (H)
Projecting Sign                                       Required     9.2.5 (I)
Suspended Sign                                        Required     9.2.5 (J)
Verandah Sign                                         Required     9.2.5 (K)
                 Buildings with 3 or Fewer Floors     Required     9.2.5(L)(1)
                 Buildings with More Than 3 Floors    Required     9.2.5(L)(2)
                 Multi-family or Institutional
Wall Sign        Buildings in Residential Districts   Required     9.2.5(L)(3)
                 or PDDs
                 Theatres                             Required     9.2.5(L)(4)
                 Mixed-use Buildings                  Required     9.2.5(L)(5)
Façade Renovation Alternative to Permanent Wall Sign Required     9.2.5(M)
New Business Alternative to Permanent Wall Sign       Required     9.2.5(N)
Window Sign                                           Not Required 9.2.5(O)
Mailbox Sign                                          Not Required 9.2.5(P)
 
      (A)   Awning Sign
         Awning signs shall be allowed, provided that:
         (1)   On a single-occupant property, one (1) awning sign may be
allowed only in lieu of all other signage otherwise permitted on the wall to
which the awning is attached.
         (2)   On a multi-occupant property, one (1) awning sign may be allowed
over each occupant entrance, in lieu of other wall signs, and if so shown on
the Master Sign Plan.
         (3)   The maximum area of an awning sign shall not exceed ten percent
(10%) of the total awning face front and side area.
         (4)   Awning signs may be illuminated only with direct surface
lighting and not with any form of backlighting.
         (5)   Awning signs may project over a public right-of-way provided
that no element of the sign hangs lower than seven (7) feet above the ground or
pedestrian walkway.
      (B)   Directional Sign
         (1)   Vehicle-oriented Directional Ground Signs
            Vehicle-oriented directional ground signs shall be allowed in
addition to Principal Ground Signs near each principal entrance to a parking
area or at principal intersections within the parking area of a development
project, or as shown on an approved Master Sign Plan. Such signs shall be
located at least fifty (50) feet away from any public right-of-way in a manner
that drivers can conveniently pull up to and read the sign without impeding
traffic on any driveway or entrance serving the development.
            (a)   Vehicle-oriented directional ground signs shall be allowed as
follows:
               (i)   Vehicle-oriented directional ground signs may have a
maximum height of five (5) feet, a maximum sign area of ten (10) square feet,
and a maximum letter height of four (4) inches that shall not be legible from
the public right-of-way.
         (2)   Pedestrian-oriented Directional Ground Signs
            Pedestrian-oriented directional ground signs shall be allowed
within multi-tenant sites in accordance with the following:
            (a)   Such signs shall not be legible from the public right-of-way
or private street or drive aisle;
            (b)   Such signs shall have a maximum sign area of fifteen (15)
square feet;
            (c)   The sign structure shall have a maximum height of seven (7)
feet; and
            (d)   The location and design characteristics of such signs shall
be included in the uniform sign plan for the development.
         (3)   Wall-mounted Directional Signs
            (a)   General
               Wall-mounted directional signs shall be permitted for buildings
with multiple tenants and shall be allowed in addition to Primary Wall Signs
provided that the total size of the wall-mounted directional sign does not
exceed ten percent (10%) of the total wall area to which the sign is affixed.
            (b)   Additional Requirements in the Town Center
               (i)   The sign shall be located next to the principal entrance.
               (ii)   The sign shall not project outward from the wall more
than six (6) inches.
               (iii)   The sign shall not extend above the parapet, eave or
building facade.
               (iv)   All area over three (3) square feet shall be considered
as part of the property's overall allowed sign area.
               (v)   The sign shall not be illuminated separately.
      (C)   Permanent Flagpoles with Flags
         Permanent flagpoles with flags shall be allowed in accordance with the
following:
         (1)   Sites Not Showing Flags and Flagpoles on Development Plans
            In a non-residential or multi-family residential site not showing
flags on an approved development plan, there shall be no more than three (3)
flagpoles and two (2) flags per pole. Poles for such flags shall be located on
the principal building wall on the site or within twenty (20) feet of the main
building entrance.
         (2)   Sites Showing Flags and Flagpoles on Development Plans and
Master Sign Plans
            Flags may be included on a development plan and located as shown on
that development plan, provided that:
            (a)   Flagpoles shall be limited to three (3) per principal
building or multi-family residential complex;
            (b)   Flags are limited to two (2) flags per pole; and
            (c)   Flagpoles shall be located outside of the public street
right-of-way.
         (3)   Flagpole Height and Flag Size
            Flagpoles shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in height, and
flags shall not exceed five (5) feet by eight (8) feet in size, except for:
            (a)   Venues for recreational and entertainment uses that provide
structured spectator seating to support spectator viewing. Such sites are
allowed one (1) flagpole up to fifty (50) feet in height displaying flag(s) no
larger than ten (10) feet by fifteen (15) feet, provided that the flagpole
meets a setback from the property line of two (2) feet for every one (1) foot
of flagpole height.
            (b)   Non-residential buildings are allowed two (2) flagpoles
extending up to twenty-five (25) feet above the height of the building,
displaying flag(s) no larger than eight (8) feet by twelve (12) feet, provided
that the building is setback from a thoroughfare by a minimum of three hundred
(300) feet or the building contains a minimum of three (3) stories.
         (4)   Memorial Parks
            Public parks that serve as a memorial to a particular event,
individual(s) or group(s) may contain more than three (3) flagpoles; however,
the total number of flags displayed may not exceed six (6).
         (5)   Public Athletic Fields/Complexes
            A total of two (2) additional flags shall be allowed for each
playing field containing permanent seating for spectators; the additional flags
may be displayed on separate poles or on the same pole; the additional flags
may be displayed at such field(s) only while used for games.
      (D)   Incidental Sign
         Incidental signs shall be allowed provided that they contain no logo
or commercial message and do not exceed two (2) square feet in area, except
that signs providing notice that cars parked illegally may be towed may comply
with provisions of North Carolina statutes that require that such notice be
four (4) square feet in area. Incidental ground signs shall not exceed three
(3) feet in height.
      (E)   Drive-through Lane Sign
         Drive-through lane signs shall be allowed only as an accessory use to
a use having a drive- through window, provided that:
         (1)   Such signs shall not exceed forty-two (42) square feet in area
and five (5) feet, six (6) inches in height.
         (2)   Such signs shall not be legible from a public right-of-way or
adjacent residential property.
         (3)   There shall be no more than two (2) such signs per drive-through
lane.
         (4)   The color of the back and side frames of such signs shall have
ties to the main building or other signage for the project.
         (5)   Businesses within the Town Center may substitute one (1)
permitted A-frame sign for a drive-through lane sign but shall not use both.
      (F)   Principal Ground Sign
         Principal ground signs shall be allowed in accordance with the
following:
         (1)   Such signs may not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet per side
or sixty-four (64) square feet total in area, and fifty-four (54) inches in
height. In the Town Center, any sign area in excess of sixteen (16) square feet
in total shall be counted as part of the property's total allowed sign area.
Where the height of the sign exceeds forty-two (42) inches, one (1) square foot
of landscape area for each square foot of sign area shall be provided in the
vicinity of the sign. At least fifty percent (50%) of the plant material shall
be evergreen. Both sides of a two (2) sided ground sign shall be identical with
regard to materials and design.
         (2)   Setbacks shall be adequate to protect the clear sight triangle,
in accordance with the Town's Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
         (3)   For a single-occupant property, there shall be only one (1)
principal ground sign per entrance to the project, provided that no two (2)
ground signs shall be within three hundred (300) feet of each other.
         (4)   For a multi-occupant project, there shall be only one (1) ground
sign per entrance from a public street or a private street which meets the
Town's Site Design Standards provided that no two (2) ground signs shall be
within three hundred (300) feet of each other, except as provided in Section
9.2.5(F)(6) below.
         (5)   Outparcels in shopping centers shall not be allowed principal
ground signs.
         (6)   Principal ground signs for residential or non-residential
subdivisions, general shopping centers, and multi-family developments may be
allowed on one (1) or both sides of each principal entrance. Where placed on
both sides of a principal entrance, such signs shall be placed on an entry wall
and/or column like features which are identical in design and materials and
approved on a development plan.
         (7)   Principal ground sign(s) at the entrance to a residential or
non-residential subdivision shall be located:
            (a)   in common open space, on dedicated sign easements, or, in the
absence of an owner's association, on private property within the subdivision;
or
            (b)   in the median strip of a public or private street right-of-
way provided that:
               (i)   the median strip is at least fifty (50) feet in length and
ten (10) feet in width, unless this requirement is reduced by the Planning
Director; and
               (ii)   the sign is located at least ten (10) feet from the
right-of-way line when projected across the entrance; and
               (iii)   if in a public right-of-way, the sign location is
approved by the Director of Transportation and Facilities based upon traffic
safety considerations and the location of utilities.
         (8)   A principal ground sign displaced due to road widening projects
may be replaced with an interim ground sign located on the same property during
the duration of the road widening project. Such interim sign shall be located
on private property and shall not be subject to Section
9.2.2 (Materials). After completion, such interim ground sign shall be replaced
with a permanent ground sign meeting the provisions of this
Chapter 9.
      (G)   Entry Monument Alternative to Principal Ground Sign
         An entry monument meeting requirements of Section
7.2.7 of this Ordinance may be approved in lieu of a permitted principal ground
sign for residential subdivisions, non-residential subdivisions and general
shopping centers with a minimum of sixty thousand (60,000) square feet of non-
residential floor area, and non-residential parcels fifteen (15) acres or
greater, with frontage on a road classified as a collector avenue or higher on
the Comprehensive Transportation Plan.
         (1)   Verification of location must be demonstrated on a survey or
development plan.
         (2)   A minimum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the monument
structure shall be constructed of masonry material that is compatible with
materials found in the principal buildings on the site.
         (3)   The height of the entry monument structure and the amount of
signage visible from any vantage point shall not exceed the following:
 
HEIGHT AND SIGN AREA LIMITS FOR ENTRY MONUMENT ALTERNATIVE TO PRINCIPAL GROUND
SIGN
                            Max. Height of Monument Max. Sign Area Visible From
                                                    Any Vantage Point
Non-residential
subdivisions and general
shopping centers (excluding 16 feet                 50 Sq. Ft.
outparcels) with over
130,000 non-residential
square feet of floor area.
Non-residential
subdivisions and general
shopping centers (excluding 14 feet                 40 Sq. Ft.
outparcels) with between
100,000 and 130,000 square
feet of floor area
Non-residential
subdivisions and general
shopping centers (excluding
outparcels) with between
60,000 and 99,999 square    12 feet                 32 Sq. Ft.
feet of floor area and non-
residential parcels 15
acres or greater
Residential subdivisions
 
         (4)   One (1) square foot of landscape area for each square foot of
sign area shall be provided in the vicinity of the sign. At least fifty percent
(50%) of the plant material shall be evergreen.
         (5)   No more than one (1) Entry Monument Alternative to Principal
Ground Sign is allowed along each street frontage with the exception of general
shopping centers with over one hundred thirty thousand (130,000) square feet of
non-residential floor area which may have one (1) additional monument sign
along a public street.
      (H)   New Construction Alternative to Principal Ground Sign
         Signs associated with new subdivision development or site construction
shall be allowed on sites with a Town-approved development plan provided that:
         (1)   Such signs shall be permitted in addition to, and in the same
location and subject to the same size and other conditions applicable to, a
"principal ground sign," per Section
9.2.5(F) except that limitations on the color shall not apply to this type of
sign.
         (2)   Such signs shall be removed the earlier of two (2) years from
the date of approval of the sign permit, or upon the issuance of Certificates
of Occupancy for seventy-five percent (75%) of the development phase or
development plan, whichever occurs first.
         (3)   In single-unit residential districts, including planned
development districts allowing single-unit residences, a single sign shall be
permitted as an accessory use to a subdivision real estate sales office, as
long as such office is permitted in the LDO and is actually used. Such sign
shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and forty-two (42) inches in
height.
      (I)   Projecting Sign
         (1)   Projecting signs shall be allowed under canopies or along
pedestrian arcades, provided that:
            (a)   Such signs shall not exceed one (1) per tenant in a multi-
tenant building entrance.
            (b)   Such signs shall not be separately illuminated.
            (c)   The height of the top edge of the signboard or bracket shall
not exceed the height of the wall from which the sign projects.
            (d)   Projecting signs may project over a public right-of-way
provided that no element of the sign hangs lower than seven (7) feet above the
ground or pedestrian walkway.
            (e)   Such signs shall be mounted and attached to buildings in a
secure manner. The sign, brackets and mounting devices shall be maintained in
good repair for both safety and appearance. Such signs shall be mounted so that
the method of installation is concealed to the extent practical.
            (f)   The signboard or the bracket shall not project more than
thirty-six (36) inches from the wall.
            (g)   In all zoning districts except the Town Center, such signs
shall not exceed two (2) square feet per side.
            (h)   In the Town Center Zoning District, such signs shall not
exceed six (6) square feet per side.
         (2)   Projecting signs shall be allowed as an alternative to a wall
sign for vertically mixed-use buildings provided that:
            (a)   Such signs shall not exceed forty-five (45) square feet per
side.
            (b)   No element of the sign hangs lower than nine (9) feet above
grade.
            (c)   The signboard or bracket shall not project more than six (6)
feet from the wall.
            (d)   A projecting sign placed on a building corner when the
building corner abuts the intersection of two (2) streets may intersect with a
forty-five (45) degree angle to the corner of the building.
            (e)   No projecting sign is allowed to extend above the roof line
or the parapet wall.
            (f)   No projecting signs may be located higher than the second
story or twenty-four (24) feet, whichever is less.
            (g)   Such signs shall be mounted and attached to buildings in a
secure manner. The sign, brackets and mounting devices shall be maintained in
good repair for both safety and appearance. Such signs shall be mounted so that
the method of installation is concealed to the extent practical.
      (J)   Suspended Signs
         (1)    Suspended signs shall be allowed under canopies or along
pedestrian arcades, provided that:
            (a)   Such signs shall not exceed one (1) per tenant in a multi-
tenant building entrance.
            (b)   Such signs shall not be separately illuminated.
            (c)   The height of the top edge of the signboard or bracket shall
not exceed the height of the wall from which the sign projects.
            (d)   No element of the sign shall hang lower than seven (7) feet
above the ground or pedestrian walkway.
            (e)   Such signs shall be mounted and attached in a secure manner.
The sign, brackets and mounting devices shall be maintained in good repair for
both safety and appearance. Such signs shall be mounted so that the method of
installation is concealed to the extent practical.
            (f)   Where mounted to a wall, the signboard or the bracket shall
not project more than thirty-six (36) inches from the wall.
            (g)   In all zoning districts except the Town Center, such signs
shall not exceed four (4) square feet in area.
            (h)   In the Town Center zoning district, such signs may be larger
than four (4) square feet in total area, but all area over two (2) square feet
shall be considered as part of the property's overall allowed sign area.
         (2)   In the Town Center, suspended signs shall also be allowed to
hang vertically from upright posts that are securely anchored in the ground.
Such suspended ground signs are allowed provided that:
            (a)   Only one (1) suspended sign is permitted per street frontage.
            (b)   Such signs shall only be permitted if the buildings or
structures housing the principal use(s) on the property are set back at least
ten (10) feet from the abutting street right-of-way.
            (c)   Such signs shall only be hung from decorative upright posts,
and may not be hung from other objects such as trees or be attached to a wall.
            (d)   Such signs shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet of
display area, and may be two (2)-sided.
            (e)   No portion of the sign shall exceed eight (8) feet in height.
No portion of the supporting post shall exceed ten (10) feet in height.
            (f)   Suspended ground signs used in lieu of a principal ground
sign shall not be deducted from a property's overall allowed sign area. If a
suspended ground sign is used in addition to a principal ground sign, then the
display area of the suspended ground sign shall count as part of the property's
total allowed sign area.
            (g)   Such signs may not extend or protrude into a sidewalk or a
pedestrian walkway.
      (K)   Verandah Sign
         Shall be allowed as an alternative to a permitted wall sign when
located above the outer fascia of a verandah or balcony as long as the sign
face does not project above the highest portion of the facade.
         (1)   The combined area of all verandah signs visible from a given
vantage point shall not exceed one and one-half (1.5) square feet per linear
foot of building frontage.
      (L)   Wall Sign
         Wall Signs are allowed on principal buildings and accessory buildings
as provided below:
         (1)   Buildings with Three or Fewer Floors
            (a)   General Wall Sign Area Limitations
               (i)   One (1) wall sign is allowed for a single-tenant building
or a multi-tenant building space with an individual entrance, with additional
signs allowed on a second wall facing a street right-of-way that contains a
door or a window, except where additional signage is allowed pursuant to
Section
9.2.5(L)(1)(b).
               (ii)   Except where additional sign area is allowed pursuant to
Section
9.2.5(L)(1)(b), the combined area of all wall signs visible from a given
vantage point shall not exceed one and one-half (1.5) square feet per linear
foot of building frontage.
            (b)   Wall Sign Limitations for Commercial Buildings Containing
Architecturally Distinct Building Segments
               Additional signage is allowed for single-tenant buildings or
individual tenant spaces in multi-tenant buildings with district architectural
segments that incorporate at least three (3) of the following:
               (i)   Façade which projects above and outwards from the primary
building wall plane;
               (ii)   Vertical and horizontal design elements;
               (iii)   Different surface materials and textures to distinguish
the storefront from the remainder of the building wall;
               (iv)   Windows (whether false or otherwise) to give the
appearance of an individual storefront; and
               (v)   Building side provides functional access to customers and
the public.
               Signage is allowed on tenant spaces meeting the above
requirements as provided below:
               (i)   Two (2) wall signs are allowed on each architecturally
distinct building segment in a general shopping center. One (1) wall sign is
allowed on each architecturally distinct building segment on other commercial
buildings or tenant spaces.
               (ii)   For general shopping centers, wall signs may not exceed
two (2) square feet per linear foot of building frontage.
               (iii)   For commercially-used single tenant spaces with a
building footprint of at least one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet, the
combined area of all wall signs may not exceed three (3) square feet per linear
foot of building frontage.
               (iv)   No individual sign may exceed sixty percent (60%) of the
available wall area on the architecturally-distinct building segment to which
it is attached.
               (v)   The amount of sign area visible from any given vantage
point may not exceed the allowable sign area.
            (c)   Office Buildings
               Multi-tenant buildings serving primarily office uses are allowed
signs on two (2) separate walls of the building, and more than one (1) sign per
façade may be permitted provided the facade is divided into architecturally
distinct segments with more than one (1) principal entrance serving interior
offices or businesses.
         (2)   Buildings With More than Three Floors
            (a)   Multi-story buildings with more than three (3) floors shall
be allowed a maximum of one and one-half (1.5) square feet in area for each
linear foot of building frontage and may have a maximum of four (4) signs
across the building facade provided that the total square feet of all signs
combined does not exceed the maximum of one and one-half (1.5) square feet in
area for each linear foot of building frontage and all signs are arranged so
they share a common horizontal centerline along the facade.
            (b)   For buildings displaying more than one (1) sign, one (1) of
the following criteria shall be met:
               (i)   Signs shall be spaced evenly across the building facade;
or
               (ii)   Signs shall be separated from all other signs a minimum
of two times (2X) the length of the longest sign by facade.
         (3)   Multi-family or Institutional Buildings in Residential Zoning
Districts and PDDs
            Multi-family residential or institutional uses located in
residential zoning districts, including planned developments designated for
such use, shall be permitted one (1) wall sign per public entrance, provided
that:
            (a)   Such sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area; and
            (b)   Each such sign may be illuminated only by direct, external
illumination.
         (4)    Theatres
            In addition to other permitted walls signs, marquee signs with
internally-illuminated or back-lit changeable copy, and internally-illuminated
or back-lit poster boxes may be allowed on theatres subject to the following:
            (a)   Changeable copy on marquee signs shall be limited to three
(3) lines of text, and shall not be subject to total wall sign area limits.
            (b)   Poster boxes shall not exceed thirty-six (36) by fifty-four
(54) inches each in size, shall not extend more than ten (10) feet above
ground, and shall be permanently mounted to the building wall.
         (5)   Vertically Mixed-Use Buildings - Upper Story Signage
            In lieu of the signs permitted by Section
9.2.5{'{'}L)(1)-(4), wall signs are allowed on the second floor and above of
vertically mixed-use buildings as provided below:
            (a)   Vertically mixed-use buildings shall be allowed a maximum of
one and one-half (1.5) square feet in area for each linear foot of building
frontage.
            (b)   A maximum of one (1) sign is permitted per façade.
            (c)   Such signs must be located on the second floor or higher.
            (d)   Sign area for ground floor tenants is permitted in addition
to the signage defined in this section and shall be calculated separately based
on the individual tenant frontage pursuant to Section
9.2.5(L)(1).
      (M)    Façade Renovation Alternative to Permanent Wall Sign
         One (1) banner shall be allowed for a business undergoing a façade
change or exterior renovation, as an alternative to a permitted permanent wall
sign allowed pursuant to Section
9.2.5(L), provided that:
         (1)   Such signs for businesses undergoing a façade change or exterior
renovation shall be limited to a maximum of ninety (90) days. The Planning
Director shall have the authority to extend the duration of the temporary sign
permit for businesses undergoing exterior renovation for up to a maximum of
sixty (60) additional days.
         (2)   Such signs shall be attached to and parallel with a wall of the
building on which wall signs are permitted and shall not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet or half (½) the size of a previously-permitted sign removed in
order to construct the façade replacement, whichever is greater.
      (N)    New Business Alternative to Permanent Wall Sign
         (1)   One (1) banner shall be allowed for a new business provided
that:
            (a)   Such banner for new businesses shall be limited to a duration
of thirty (30) days within the first sixty (60) days after issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy for that location.
            (b)   Such banner shall be attached to and parallel with a wall of
the building on which wall signs are permitted and shall not exceed thirty-two
(32) square feet in surface area.
         (2)   A second banner meeting requirements of Section
9.2.5(N)(1) shall be allowed provided that:
            (a)   only one (1) of the two (2) banners is visible from any given
vantage point; and
            (b)   both banners are approved for display during the same time
period.
      (O)   Window Sign
         Signs shall be allowed on the inside or outside of window glass
provided that they cover no more than twenty-five (25) percent of the glass
area of each individual window pane and they are not separately illuminated.
Signs permanently affixed to the external side of windows shall be a medium or
premium grade vinyl, digital image using solvent coloring, or other similar
type material and shall be maintained in good order.
      (P)   Mailbox Sign
         Signage on mailboxes shall be limited to individual name(s) and the
address of the property served by the mailbox, as allowed by the US Postal
Service.
   9.2.6   Permanent Sign Types and Applicable Standards Allowed Only in Town
Center and Mixed Use Overlay Districts, on Property Not Containing a Single-
Unit Residence or Duplex
      The following sign types are permitted on property located in the Town
Center and Mixed Use Overlay Districts, except lots or parcels containing a
single-unit residence or duplex. Permanent signs shall be permitted in
accordance with
Table 9.2-2, subject to the applicable standards of this Section and the
provisions of any Master Sign Plan applicable to the site.
 
TABLE 9.2-2: TABLE OF PERMANENT SIGN TYPES ALLOWED ONLY IN TOWN CENTER AND
MIXED USE OVERLAY DISTRICTS, ON PROPERTY NOT CONTAINING A SINGLE-UNIT
RESIDENCE OR DUPLEX
Wall Sign at Entrance to Restaurant or CaféNot Required 9A.3.2(A)
Neon Sign                                   Not Required 9A.3.2(B)
 
      (A)   Wall Sign at Entrance to Restaurant or Café
         In addition to other signage, restaurants and cafés in the Town Center
and MUOD shall be allowed one (1) wall-mounted display. The sign shall be
located at or near the main entrance, and shall not exceed two (2) square feet
in size. These additional signs shall not be calculated as part of the site's
overall allowed sign area.
      (B)   Neon Signs
         One (1) neon sign may be permitted for each business in the Town
Center and MUOD based upon the following:
         (1)   The sign shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
         (2)   The sign shall be illuminated only during business hours.
         (3)   The sign shall be located on the interior side of a window.
         (4)   The sign shall meet safety requirements by having a backing and
self-contained transformers. All components shall be UL approved.
         (5)   Text, logos and color are not restricted.
   9.2.7   Permanent Sign Types and Applicable Standards on Property Containing
a Single-Unit Residence or Duplex
      The following sign types are permitted in all zoning districts on
property containing a single-family residence or duplex. Permanent signs shall
be permitted in accordance with
Table 9.2-3, subject to the applicable standards of this Section and the
provisions of any Master Sign Plan applicable to the site.
 
TABLE 9.2-3: TABLE OF PERMANENT SIGN TYPES ALLOWED ON PROPERTY CONTAINING A
SINGLE-UNIT RESIDENCE OR DUPLEX
Sign Type                      Sign Permit  Conditions
Permanent Flagpoles With Flags Not Required 9.2.7(A)
Wall Signs                     Not Required 9.2.7(B)
Incidental Signs               Not Required 9.2.7(C)
Window Sign                    Not Required 9.2.7(D)
 
      (A)   Permanent Flagpoles with Flags
         There shall be no more than three (3) flagpoles and two (2) flags per
pole. Flagpoles shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in height, and flags
shall not exceed five (5) feet by eight (8) feet in size. Flags shall contain
no commercial message.
      (B)   Wall Signs
         One wall sign is allowed on a single-unit residential unit (whether
unit is attached or detached). The wall sign shall not exceed two (2) square
feet in area, shall not be separately illuminated, and shall not contain any
commercial message.
      (C)   Incidental Sign
         Incidental signs shall be allowed provided that they contain no logo
or commercial message and not exceed two (2) square feet in area.
      (D)   Window Signs
         Signs shall be allowed on the inside or outside of window glass
provided that they cover no more than twenty-five (25) percent of the glass
area of each individual window pane, are not separately illuminated, and
contain no commercial message. Signs permanently affixed to the external side
of windows shall be a medium or premium grade vinyl, digital image using
solvent coloring, or other similar type material and shall be maintained in
good order.
   9.2.8   Master Sign Plans
      (A)   Required
         A Master Sign Plan approved by the Planning Director is required for
all residential subdivisions, multi-family and townhouse developments, planned
developments, non-residential subdivisions, and all multi-building or multi-
occupant commercial developments before any permanent signs for such
development may be erected.
         All owners, tenants, subtenants and purchasers of individual units
within the development shall comply with the approved Master Sign Plan.
         Residential developments that only have one (1) entrance monument and
have no other signage requests shall not be required to submit a Master Sign
Plan.
      (B)   Relation to Other Sections of This Ordinance
         Requirements of the Master Sign Plan may be more restrictive, but not
less restrictive, than the applicable requirements of
Chapter 9.
      (C)   Elements
         The master sign plan shall at a minimum address sign location,
materials, size, color, and illumination.
         (1)   The Master Sign Plan may include any type of wall sign permitted
by
Chapter 9.
         (2)   Consistent sign types, color patterns, and materials shall be
used on buildings with a uniform façade. Font styles may vary, subject to
property owner's approval.
         (3)   Two (2) sign style and/or color options may be introduced on
buildings with architecturally-distinct building segments. Signs within each
sign style shall be constructed of similar materials.
         (4)   Principal Ground Signs and other ground signs within a multi-
occupant development plan project shall incorporate one (1) or more unifying
elements, including, but not limited to, features such as style, illumination,
colors, and materials.
      (D)   Allocation of Sign Area in Multi-tenant Developments
         Unless specified otherwise in the Master Sign Plan, permanent sign
area for a multi-tenant development shall be allocated in proportion to the
frontage each tenant controls on the applicable wall.
      (E)   Amendment Procedures
         A Master Sign Plan may be amended by filing a new master plan and
application with the Planning Director.
         (1)   The application may be filed only by the owner of the land
affected by the proposed change, or an agent, lessee or contract purchaser
specifically authorized by the owner. Before filing the application, all land
owners affected by the proposed change must give written authorization. If a
governing board for the property affected exists, then the governing board may
provide written authorization for all landowners affected.
         (2)   Any new or amended Master Sign Plan for non-residential
developments (including those for planned developments) shall include a
schedule that requires bringing all permanent signs not conforming to the
proposed plan into conformance within ninety (90) days. This shall apply to all
properties governed by said plan.
         (3)   Unless restricted by a zoning condition PDD master plan,
residential neighborhoods or institutions within PDDs may submit an application
to amend the Master Sign Plan for their individual subdivision entry feature or
principal ground signs by proposing new criteria that calls for masonry
material for structural supports, foundations and/or background material or by
proposing criteria that meets the requirement for architectural compatibility
between the principal ground sign and the principal building.
      (F)   Effect
         After approval of an amendment to a Master Sign Plan, no permanent
sign shall be erected, placed, painted, or maintained except in accordance with
such plan, and such plan may be enforced in the same way as any provision of
this chapter. In the case of any conflict between a provision of a lawfully-
approved Master Sign Plan and one (1) or more provisions of this chapter, the
Master Sign Plan shall control.
   9.2.9   Non-Conformities
      (A)   Non-conforming Signs
         (1)   General
            Nonconforming permanent signs, including signs indicated for
amortization, shall comply with the provisions of Section
10.5.
         (2)   Signs in National Register Historic Districts
            Existing permanent signs which are attached to, painted on, or an
integral part of contributing historic structures within a National Register
Historic District, and which retain the content, dimensions, location, and
lighting that the sign possessed when the National Register District was
designated shall enjoy the following privileges:
            (a)   May remain on roofs or exceed height limits found elsewhere
in this chapter.
            (b)   May exceed dimensional limits found elsewhere in this
chapter.
            (c)   May reference a product or business which is not related to
the existing business on the property.
            (d)   Shall not, if the sign is not related to an existing
business, have the sign area deducted from the total amount of square feet of
the sign area granted by other standards of this chapter.
            (e)   May remain in a right-of-way unless they become a hazard to
traffic.
            (f)   May retain their original lighting pattern and materials.
            (g)   May be restored to one hundred percent (100%) of the original
design if damaged or destroyed.
      (B)   Signs for Non-conforming Uses
         Owners of non-conforming uses located in residential districts may
erect non-illuminated wall signs only. Such signs shall conform in all other
ways with the size, placement, and other standards set forth for such signs in
this
Chapter 9.
(Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-8-16; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2021-
LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-01, 2-9-23)
9.3   TEMPORARY SIGNS
   9.3.1   Applicability
      This Section
9.3 applies to temporary signs in all zoning districts.
   9.3.2   General Design Requirements
      Temporary signs are not subject to limitations regarding color and
material, but may not be internally or externally illuminated.
   9.3.3   Permitted Temporary Signs
      Temporary signs shall be permitted as provided herein:
      (A)    A-Frame Signs
         One (1) A-Frame sign per street frontage per business shall be
allowed, with approval of a sign permit only where such sign is associated with
a business located within twelve (12) feet of Town property or a public right-
of-way, provided that:
         (1)   Such signs shall be allowed only in the Town Center and Mixed
Use Overlay District.
         (2)   The total area of the signboard shall not exceed ten (10) square
feet per side.
         (3)   Any A-Frame sign shall not exceed two (2) linear feet in width,
with a maximum height of sixty (60) inches.
         (4)   The sign must be constructed of materials that present a
finished appearance. Rough-cut plywood is not acceptable.
         (5)   The sign shall be located on the same parcel and within ten (10)
feet of the building exterior of the business installing the sign and its
location shall not interfere with pedestrian or vehicular circulation,
including, but not limited to driveways, parking lots, rights-of-way, and
public sidewalks.
         (6)   The sign shall be removed at the end of the business day.
         (7)   Any person erecting an A-Frame sign shall indemnify and hold
harmless the Town and its officers, agents, and employees from any claim
arising out of the presence of the sign on Town property or a public right-of-
way.
      (B)   All Other Temporary Signs
         The Town shall allow all other temporary signs that meet the criteria
and limitations set forth in
Table 9.3-1.
Table 9.3-1 TEMPORARY SIGNS ALLOWED
Requirement Land Use 1
            Single-Unit Dwellings and Duplexes All Other Uses
Table 9.3-1 TEMPORARY SIGNS ALLOWED
                            Land Use 1
Requirement                 Single-Unit Dwellings and All Other Uses
                            Duplexes
Maximum Number of Temporary 8                         4
Signs Per Parcel 2
Maximum Area of Individual  5 square feet             3 signs: 5 square feet
Sign 3                                                1 sign: 16 square feet
Maximum Sign Height         42 inches                 42 inches
Minimum Setback from Side   5 feet                    5 feet
Property Line 4
1   Uses may be permitted in zoning district or may be legal non-conforming
uses.
2   A maximum of two temporary commercial signs are allowed on a single
parcel. Off-site commercial signs are prohibited.
3    The maximum sign area applies to the size of the sign itself. Signs may
be double-sided and contain messages on both sides.
4    Signs in the right-of-way are prohibited except as allowed by state or
federal law. See also Town Code Section 28-12.
 
(Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-8-16; Ord. No. 2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2022-
LDO-02, 4-28-22)
Chapter 10:   NONCONFORMITIES
10.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
10.1.1   Purpose
   
10.1.2   General Policy
   
10.1.3   Determination of Nonconformity Status
   
10.1.4   Change of Ownership or Tenancy
   
10.1.5   Exception Due to Variance or Modification
   
10.1.6   Damage or Destruction
   (A) Exception for Setbacks for Detached Dwellings
   
10.1.7   Continuation, Maintenance, and Minor Repair
   
10.1.8   Enlargement, Expansion, Alteration, or Major Repair
   (A) Applicability
   (B) Development Plans
   (C) Findings
   (D) Other Considerations
   (E) Conditions
   (F) Limits on Expansion
   (G) Limits on Requirements
   (H) Exception for Setbacks for Detached Dwellings
   (I) Nonconforming Buffers or Streetscapes
   
10.1.9   Enforcement of Requirements
10.2   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND/OR SITES
   
10.2.1   Re-Use or Redevelopment of Existing Nonconforming Structures and/or
Sites
10.3   NONCONFORMING USES
   
10.3.1   Abandonment or Cessation of Use
   
10.3.2   Abandonment or Cessation of Use; Town Center (TC) District
   
10.3.3   Manufactured Homes on Individual Lots
   
10.3.4   Change of Use
   
10.3.5   Signs for Nonconforming Uses
   
10.3.6   Nonconforming Adult Businesses
10.4   NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD
   
10.4.1   Nonconformity Related to Lots of Record
   
10.4.2   Exception for Single-Unit Dwelling
   
10.4.3   Adjacent Lots in Single Ownership
10.5   NONCONFORMING SIGNS
   
10.5.1   Nonconforming Signs Protected
   
10.5.2   Nonconforming Pole Signs
   
10.5.3   Limitations on Nonconforming Signs
   (A) Discontinued Sign
   (B) Routine Repairs and Maintenance
   (C) Change of Copy
   (D) Other Sign Permits on Premises
   (E) Required Removal
10.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.1.1   Purpose
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and limit the development and
continued existence of legal uses, structures, lots, and signs established
either prior to the effective date of this Ordinance or the effective date of
future amendments to this Ordinance that no longer conform to the requirements
of this Ordinance. All such situations are collectively referred to as
"nonconformities."
   10.1.2   General Policy
   While nonconformities may continue, the provisions of this chapter are
designed to curtail substantial investment in nonconformities to bring about
their eventual improvement or elimination in order to preserve the integrity of
this Ordinance and the character of the Town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction. Any nonconforming use, structure, lot, or sign that lawfully
existed as of the effective date of this Ordinance and that remains
nonconforming, and any use, structure, lot, or sign that becomes nonconforming
as a result of any subsequent rezoning or amendment to the text of this
Ordinance, may be continued or maintained only in accordance with the terms of
this chapter. This chapter also is intended to reduce vacancies, promote
appropriate redevelopment and re-use of existing structures and lots, and set
forth requirements.
   10.1.3   Determination of Nonconformity Status
   In all cases, the burden of establishing that any nonconformity is a legal
nonconformity shall be solely upon the owner of such nonconformity, not the
Town.
   10.1.4   Change of Ownership or Tenancy
   Changes of ownership, tenancy, or management of an existing nonconformity
are permitted but such nonconformities shall continue to be subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
   10.1.5   Exception Due to Variance or Modification
   This chapter shall not apply, however, to any development standard or
feature that is the subject of a variance or modification granted by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment or Town Council. Where a variance or modification has been
granted for a development standard that does not otherwise conform to the
requirements of this Ordinance, that development standard shall be deemed
conforming.
   10.1.6   Damage or Destruction
   If a nonconforming use, structure containing a nonconforming use,
nonconforming structure, or nonconforming sign is destroyed by any means to an
extent greater than fifty (50) percent of its replacement cost at the time of
destruction, then such use, structure, or sign shall not be re-established
unless it is made to conform to the requirements of this Ordinance, except as
provided below.
      (A)   Exception for Setbacks for Detached Dwellings
         If destroyed by any means to an extent greater than fifty (50) percent
of its replacement cost at the time of destruction, detached dwellings with
setbacks made nonconforming by either of the following shall be required to
meet the lesser of current required building setbacks or building setbacks that
were required at the time of development plan approval:
         (a)   the installation of roadways or other easements/property line
adjustments created or enacted by a governmental entity,
         (b)   a change to the street classification in the Comprehensive
Transportation Plan that increases the width of the right-of-way from which the
setback is measured.
   10.1.7   Continuation, Maintenance, and Minor Repair
   The continuation of a nonconforming use or structure and the maintenance or
minor repair of a structure containing a nonconforming use are permitted,
provided that the continuation, maintenance, or minor repair does not extend or
expand the nonconforming use or structure. For the purposes of this section,
"maintenance or minor repair" shall mean:
      (A)   Repairs that are necessary to maintain and to correct any damage or
deterioration to the structural soundness or interior appearance of a building
or structure without expanding or altering the building or structure;
      (B)   Maintenance of land areas to protect against health hazards and
promote the safety of surrounding land uses; and
      (C)   Repairs that are required to remedy unsafe conditions that cause a
threat to public safety.
   10.1.8   Enlargement, Expansion, Alteration, or Major Repair
      (A)   Applicability
         (1)   Enlargement, expansion, alteration, or major repair of a
nonconforming structure or nonconforming use shall be deemed a "special use"
and shall occur only if approved by the Zoning Board of Adjustment in
accordance with the procedures and standards set forth in Section
3.8 of this Ordinance and also the requirements of this section.
         (2)   However, the re-use or redevelopment of a nonconforming
structure or nonconforming site that houses a conforming use shall not be
required to obtain a special use permit or undergo development plan review if
the requirements of Section
3.11 are met.
      (B)   Development Plans
         Development plans, which shall be reviewed concurrently with the
application for a special use, shall be required for the following activities
under this section:
         (1)   Re-establishment of a nonconforming use following abandonment of
a previous non-conforming use.
         (2)   Any enlargement, expansion, alteration or major repair of a
nonconforming structure or a conforming structure on a nonconforming site when
such structure houses a nonconforming use, or when such structure houses a
conforming use and the provisions of Section
3.11 are not applicable.
         (3)   Establishment of a nonconforming use with a greater intensity
(based on the Tables of Permitted Uses in Section
5.1 of this Ordinance) subsequent to an existing non-conforming use, whether
cessation occurred or not.
      (C)   Findings
         After holding the hearing on the special use, the Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall determine whether to approve the proposed enlargement,
expansion, alteration, or major repair. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall
not approve the proposed activity unless and until it finds, based on the
evidence and testimony received at the hearing or otherwise appearing in the
record of the case, that the proposed enlargement, expansion, alteration, or
major repair meets the standards of review set forth in Section
3.8.3, Approval Criteria, of this Ordinance, as well as the following:
         (1)   The nonconforming use allowed to continue remains compatible
with adjacent land uses and the Comprehensive Plan;
         (2)   That all access roads and entrance or exit drives to the
nonconformity will be adequate with respect to automotive and pedestrian safety
and convenience, traffic flow, and control and access in the case of fire or
other emergency;
         (3)   That all off-street parking, loading, refuse collection, and
other service areas will be adequate with respect to automotive and pedestrian
safety and convenience, traffic flow, and economic, noise, glare, odor, and
other impacts on adjoining properties;
         (4)   That all water, wastewater treatment, schools, fire and police
protection, and other necessary public and private utilities and services will
be adequate with respect to their location, availability, and compatibility
with adjoining properties;
         (5)   That all landscaping, screening, and fencing will be adequate,
with respect to the effectiveness of their type, dimensions, and character,
will be adequate with respect to minimizing the economic, noise, glare, odor,
and other impacts of the nonconformity on adjoining properties and other
properties in the neighborhood;
         (6)   That the type, size, and intensity of the proposed special use,
including such considerations as storage of items and arrangement, the size of
the site and the location of the use upon it, and the hours of operation and
numbers of people who are likely to utilize or be attached to the use, will be
adequate with respect to minimizing the impact of the nonconformity upon
adjoining properties, other properties in the neighborhood, and the purposes of
the zoning district in which the property is located; and
         (7)   Surface drainage will be adequate with respect to on-site and
off-site erosion, siltation, pollution, flooding, or other detrimental effects
of the nonconformity.
      (D)   Other Considerations
         In determining whether the proposed extension, alteration, or major
repair will substantially injure the value, use, and enjoyment of other
properties, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall also consider and balance:
         (1)   The possible detriment or benefit to the owner of the
nonconformity resulting from denying the approval, from approving the request
but requiring that the nonconformity be brought wholly or partially into
compliance, or from approving the request;
         (2)   The possible detriment or benefit to the owners of nearby
properties resulting from denying the approval, from approving the request but
requiring that the nonconformity be brought wholly or partially into
compliance, or from approving the request; and
         (3)   The possible detriment or benefit to the general public
resulting from denying the approval, from approving the request but requiring
that the nonconformity be brought wholly or partially into compliance, or from
approving the request.
      (E)   Conditions
         The Zoning Board of Adjustment may impose any conditions on approval
of the request, including appropriate time limits for meeting those conditions,
as it deems necessary to mitigate any potential hazards or problems, or to
bring the nonconformity into compliance to the extent necessary to protect the
rights and interests of nearby property owners and the general public.
      (F)   Limits on Expansion
         If the Zoning Board of Adjustment permits a non-conforming use to
expand, then the following shall apply:
         (1)   The area of such expansion shall not exceed twenty-five (25)
percent of the area of the existing non-conforming use, unless otherwise
allowable in this Section;
         (2)   Radio, TV, and telecommunication towers may be expanded by more
than twenty-five (25) percent to permit the co-location of a second or
subsequent user or communications sending or receiving device so that the need
for an additional tower is eliminated. Only the Zoning Board of Adjustment may
permit the expansion of a non-conforming communication tower in a residential
or non-residential zoning district, and then only by approving a Special Use
Permit (see Section
3.8);
         (3)   Land uses listed in
Table 5.1-2 in a use category of "Vehicles and Equipment" or "Warehouse and
Freight Movement" legally-established prior to July 1, 2003 located on parcels
within the HMXD (High Intensity Mixed Use) and MXD (Mixed Use) subdistricts of
the Town Center (TC) District (see Section
4.2) shall not be considered as nonconforming uses, and as such may be allowed
to expand beyond twenty-five (25) percent without a Special Use Permit (see
Section
3.8).
      (G)   Limits on Requirements
         In acting upon applications for such special uses, the Zoning Board of
Adjustment shall not order the discontinuation or termination of nonconformity.
If an application is denied, then the continuation, maintenance, and minor
repair of the nonconformity shall still be allowed in accordance with the terms
of this chapter.
      (H)   Exception for Setbacks for Detached Dwellings
         (1)   Detached dwellings with nonconforming setbacks are exempt from
the requirements of this section if the following findings can be made:
            (a)   The proposed addition or alteration will either meet current
setback requirements or will not encroach any further into the required setback
than the existing structure; and
            (b)   If the proposed alteration or addition is located on the side
of the existing dwelling, there is a minimum distance of fifteen (15) feet
between the side of the existing structure and the nearest dwelling on the
adjoining property.
         (2)   Detached dwellings with setbacks made nonconforming by the
installation of roadways or other easements/property line adjustments created
or enacted by a governmental entity are also exempt from the requirements of
this Section, and shall not be required to address the findings in (H)(1)
above.
      (I)   Nonconforming Buffers or Streetscapes
         (1)   In situations where existing buffers or streetscapes are made
nonconforming through the actions of a governmental entity (i.e. road- widening
projects) such actions shall not render an existing lot nonconforming.
         (2)   In certain situations, the Planning Director may require the
governmental entity whose actions affected an existing buffer or streetscape to
mitigate for the removal of existing vegetation on a case-by-case basis.
   10.1.9   Enforcement of Requirements
   The Town may withhold necessary permits, inspections, or other approvals to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2009-LDO-04, 7-23-09; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-
LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17;
Ord. No. 2019-LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2023-
LDO-03, 6-22-23)
10.2   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES AND/OR SITES
   10.2.1   Re-Use or Redevelopment of Existing Nonconforming Structures and/or
Sites
   Re-use or redevelopment of certain vacant existing nonconforming structures
and/or sites can be accomplished through the Re-Use/Redevelopment Plan
provisions in Section
3.11.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-04, 7-23-
09)
10.3   NONCONFORMING USES
   10.3.1   Abandonment or Cessation of Use
   Except as modified elsewhere in this Ordinance, if a nonconforming use is
discontinued for one hundred eighty (180) calendar days or more, then the
property shall thereafter be occupied and used only for a conforming use. If a
nonconforming use of property is discontinued, but re-established within one
hundred eighty (180) calendar days, then the nonconforming use may continue, if
the nature and degree of the nonconformity will not be changed or increased
from that which existed before the nonconforming use was discontinued.
   10.3.2   Abandonment or Cessation of Use; Town Center (TC) District
   The following provisions apply to nonconforming uses within the Town Center
(TC) District:
      (A)   The requirements of Section
10.3.1 shall not apply to nonconforming single-unit dwellings located in any
subdistrict within the Town Center district.
      (B)   If a nonconforming use listed in Table
5.1-2 in a use category of "vehicles and equipment" or "warehouse and freight
movement" within the HMXD (High Intensity Mixed Use) and MXD (Mixed Use)
subdistricts of the Town Center (TC) zoning district is discontinued for one
hundred eighty (180) calendar days or more, then such uses may not be re-
established.
   10.3.3   Manufactured Homes on Individual Lots
   Non-conforming manufactured homes in place prior to July 1, 2003 which are
removed from an individual lot may be removed and replaced with a manufactured
home; and may be moved around or relocated within the boundaries of the lot
upon which they were located provided the manufactured home and the lot were
lawfully permitted as of July 1, 2003. However, if active use or operation of
the non-conforming manufactured home is discontinued for one hundred eighty
(180) calendar days or more, then the use of the non-conforming manufactured
home shall thereafter conform to the requirements of this Ordinance.
   10.3.4   Change of Use
      (A)   Any nonconforming use may be changed to a conforming use by
securing all approvals and permits that this Ordinance requires for the
intended or resulting use. No nonconforming use may be changed to another
nonconforming use.
      (B)   However, the establishment or replacement of residentially used
structures on land zoned for non-residential use shall be prohibited unless a
rezoning to an appropriate residential district is approved first.
   10.3.5   Signs for Nonconforming Uses
   Nonconforming uses located in residential districts may erect non-
illuminated wall signs only. Such signs shall conform in all ways with the
standards set forth in
Chapter 9.
   10.3.6   Nonconforming Adult Businesses
   Such uses shall not be rendered non-conforming in situations where any of
the following apply:
      (A)   Any adult business that fails to comply with the location
requirements of this Ordinance (see Section
5.2.3(M)) but that was lawfully operating before December 9, 1993 shall not be
deemed to be in violation of this Ordinance.
      (B)   An adult business operating lawfully is not rendered in violation
of this Ordinance by the subsequent location of a church, public or private
elementary school, child day care or nursery school, public park, residential
district, or an establishment having a North Carolina ABC license within one
thousand (1,000) feet of the sexually oriented business.
      (C)   If a nonconforming adult business is discontinued for a period of
thirty (30) consecutive days or more, then the property shall be thereafter
occupied and used only for a conforming use. If a nonconforming use of property
is discontinued, but re-established within thirty (30) days, then the
nonconforming use may continue, provided that the nature and degree of the
nonconformity will not be changed or increased from that which existed before
the nonconforming use was discontinued.
(Ord. No. 2010-LDO-03, 2-25-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2022-
LDO-02, 4-28-22)
10.4   NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD
   10.4.1   Nonconformity Related to Lots of Record
      (A)   No use or structure shall be established on a lot of record that
does not conform to the lot area and lot width requirements established in this
Ordinance for the zoning district in which it is located, except as otherwise
set forth in this Section
10.4.
      (B)   The prohibition on development in paragraph (A) shall not apply to
lots that are rendered nonconforming by government action (such as by
identification of right-of-way), or by other action outside the control of the
property owner. In cases where the Town approved a recombination plat that
increases the size of one (1) residential lot while reducing another below the
minimum lot size and such error is not discovered until after plat recordation
and conveyance of the non-conforming lot to an innocent purchaser, such non-
conforming lot shall be deemed to be conforming for the purposes of maintaining
its pre-existing status as a buildable lot, subject to other provisions of this
Ordinance.
      (C)   If the nonconformity is due to failure to meet streetscape or
buffer standards, the party whose actions rendered the streetscape or buffer
non-conforming shall be responsible for bringing the streetscape back into
compliance to the maximum extent practicable if required by the Planning
Director.
   10.4.2   Exception for Single-Unit Dwelling
   Notwithstanding the limitation in subsection
10.4.1 above, a nonconforming lot that exists prior to the effective date of
this Ordinance or was approved by Wake County as a buildable lot prior to
annexation in to the Town of Cary, may be used for a single-unit dwelling,
provided that:
      (A)   The lot is located in a residential district in which dwellings are
permitted; and
      (B)   The proposed dwelling can meet all the required setbacks for the
district; and
      (C)   No new dwelling unit may be added to a nonconforming lot that
already has one (1) or more individual dwelling units.
   10.4.3   Adjacent Lots in Single Ownership
   If two or more adjacent and vacant nonconforming lots are in single
ownership at any time, and such lots individually have less frontage or area
than the minimum requirements of the district in which such lots are located,
then such lots shall be considered and treated as a single lot or several lots
that meet the minimum requirements of this Ordinance for the district in which
such lots are located. Any construction, replacement, or enlargement of a
single-unit dwelling shall require a recombination of all necessary lots in
order to achieve compliance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-
02, 4-28-22)
10.5   NONCONFORMING SIGNS
   It is the policy of the Town to encourage and, to the maximum extent
practicable, require that all signs within the Town be brought into compliance
with the requirements of this Ordinance.
   10.5.1   Nonconforming Signs Protected
   A sign that was lawfully erected prior to January 13, 2000 but which does
not conform to one or more aspects of the requirements of this chapter, may
remain in use subject to the requirements of this section and other applicable
requirements of LDO Chapters, with the exception of nonconforming pole signs or
billboards. Further, any nonconforming sign or any new sign that is part of a
Master Sign Plan (formerly known as a Uniform Sign Plan) within a Planned
Development may be installed, replaced, maintained and repaired provided that
the Master Sign Plan was approved prior to January 13, 2000, and the sign is
installed in accordance with the Master Sign Plan or in accordance with
Chapter 9, whichever is applicable.
   10.5.2   Nonconforming Pole Signs
   Signs or signage which meet the definition of a pole sign (including
billboards) in this Ordinance are considered to be nonconforming, and shall be
removed or replaced with signage which conforms to the requirements of this
Ordinance no later than July 1, 2006. Existing lawfully-placed signs associated
with an approved Master Sign Plan shall be exempt from this provision. Owners
of record for such signs shall be notified of the nonconformity via mailed
notice.
   10.5.3   Limitations on Nonconforming Signs
      (A)   Discontinued Sign
         A discontinued sign related to a use or business that ceases to exist
or operate for a continuous period of 90 days shall be considered nonconforming
and shall not be reused for sign purposes unless and until it is in full
conformity with the provisions of this chapter, subject to issuance of a new
sign permit.
      (B)   Routine Repairs and Maintenance
         Repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs, such as repainting and
electrical repairs, shall be permitted, provided that repainting shall not
include a change of copy or color, and provided further that no repairs shall
be permitted where the cost of the repairs exceeds $1,000.00 or 50 percent of
the replacement cost of the sign.
      (C)   Change of Copy
         No change of copy shall be permitted without bringing the sign into
full conformance with
Chapter 9, whichever is applicable, and with the applicable Master Sign Plan or
Uniform Sign Plan, except as provided below:
         (1)   Sign panels or sign blades in existing non-conforming cabinet
signs may be replaced, and copy may be changed on non-conforming changeable
copy signs, provided that:
            (a)   the sign was constructed or installed in conformance with
standards applicable at the time of construction or installation;
            (b)   for illuminated cabinet signs, the background of the sign
panel is opaque; and
            (c)   colors used in the sign area comply with the applicable
Section of
Chapter 9 of this Ordinance.
      (D)   Other Sign Permits on Premises
         For single-occupant properties, the issuance of a sign permit for a
new or replacement sign shall be subject to the condition that all
nonconforming signs on that property shall be removed or brought into
conformance as part of the work of installing the new or replacement sign. For
multi-occupant properties, the issuance of a sign permit for a new or
replacement sign for any individual occupant shall be subject to the condition
that all nonconforming signs for that occupant shall be removed or brought into
conformance as part of the work of installing the new or replacement sign. This
section shall not apply to the issuance of a permit for a temporary sign.
      (E)   Required Removal
         Where an amendment to a previously approved development plan is
proposed, approval of such plan shall be contingent upon removal of all
nonconforming signs on the site. For example, if an existing retail
establishment proposes a building addition or parking expansion, then any
nonconforming signs on the property must be brought into compliance as a
condition of approval of the amended development plan.
 
PRINCIPLES OF INTERPRETATION
  If a hotel were the sole occupant of a  property , then replacement of a wall
sign would mean that a nonconforming ground sign would also have to be
  replaced.
  If a shopping center replaced a nonconforming ground sign, then all
nonconforming  ground signs  would need to be replaced, provided such  ground
  signs  were not located on a separate parcel.
  If a video store within a shopping center replaced a wall sign, then no other
tenants within the shopping center would have to replace their nonconforming
  signs.
  If an insurance office within a multi-tenant office building replaced its
wall sign, then no other tenant within the office building would have to
  replace its nonconforming signs.
 
(Ord. No. 2009-LDO-3, 5-14-09; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 12-LDO-
01, 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-8-16; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
Chapter 11:   ENFORCEMENT
11.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
11.1.1   Purpose
   
11.1.2   Compliance Required
   
11.1.3   Liability for Violations
   
11.1.4   Each Day a Separate Violation
11.2   RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS
   
11.2.1   Enforcement Responsibility
   
11.2.2   Appeals
   (A) Appeals of Building Permit Issues
   (B) Appeals of Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Decisions Pursuant to
Section
14.4
   (C) Appeal of Stop Work Orders
   (D) Appeal of Notice of Violation Civil Penalties and Fines (Except Pursuant
to Section
14.4)
   
11.2.3   Inspections
11.3   SPECIFIC VIOLATIONS
   
11.3.1   Land Disturbing Activities Inconsistent with Ordinance
   
11.3.2   Nonconformities Inconsistent with Ordinance
   
11.3.3   Increasing Intensity or Density of Use
   
11.3.4   Making Lots, Setbacks, Buffers, or Open Space Nonconforming
   
11.3.5   Activities Inconsistent with Conditions of Plan Approval or Permit
   
11.3.6   Failure to Remove Signs
   
11.3.7   Removal of, Damage to, Disturbance of and Pruning of Vegetation
Inconsistent with Ordinance
11.4   REMEDIES AND PENALTIES FOR EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL VIOLATIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION
14.4
   
11.4.1   Deny or Withhold Development Approval
   
11.4.2   Revoke Development Approval
   
11.4.3   Issue Stop Work Order
   
11.4.4   Notice of Violation Civil Penalties
   (A) Process
   (B) Amount
   
11.4.5   Assess Criminal Penalties
   
11.4.6   Require Restoration of Disturbed Areas
   
11.4.7   Private Civil Relief
11.5   REMEDIES AND PENALTIES APPLICABLE TO OTHER SECTIONS OF THE LDO
   
11.5.1   General Remedies and Penalties
   (A) Deny or Withhold Development Approval
   (B) Revoke Development Approval
   (C) Assess Civil Penalties
   (D) Issue Stop Work Orders
   
11.5.2   Additional Remedies and Penalties For Certain Violations
   (A) Clear Cutting of Trees
   (B) Removal or Disturbance of or Damage to Existing Vegetation
   (C) Severe Pruning
   (D) Violation of Historic Preservation Ordinance
11.6   ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
   
11.6.1   Notice of Violation Procedure
   (A) Notice Required Before Penalty
   (B) Notice of Violation and Opportunity to Cure
   (C) Written Notice
   (D) Content of Written Notice
   (E) Extension of Time to Cure
   (F) Corrective Action Taken
   
11.6.2   Citation Procedure
   (A) Citation for Violation
   (B) Content of Citation
   (C) Corrective Action Required
   (D) Action for Recovery of Penalty
   
11.6.3   Summary Removal of Dangerous Signs or Structures
   
11.6.4   Injunctive Relief and Other Remedies
   
11.6.5   Private Civil Relief for Violation of Sedimentation and Erosion
Control Standards
11.7   ENFORCEMENT OF SIGN REGULATIONS
   
11.7.1   Informal Remedial Procedures
   (A) For Temporary Signs
   (B) For Other Signs
   (C) For Signs on Sites with Continuing Construction
   (D) For Signs on Sites with Recent Violations
   
11.7.2   Formal Enforcement and Remedies
   
11.7.3   Revoke Sign Permit Approval
11.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   11.1.1   Purpose
   This chapter establishes procedures through which the Town seeks to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance and obtain corrections for
Ordinance violations. The provisions of this chapter are intended to encourage,
to the greatest degree possible, the voluntary correction of violations.
   11.1.2   Compliance Required
   Within the Town or its ETJ, it shall be a violation of this Ordinance to
erect, construct, reconstruct, remodel, alter, demolish (in part or whole),
maintain, expand, move, or use any land, building, structure, or sign, or
engage in development or subdivision of land in violation of the zoning,
subdivision, historic preservation, erosion control, sign, and other
development regulations contained in this Ordinance.
   11.1.3   Liability for Violations
   Any person who erects, constructs, reconstructs, alters, repairs, converts,
or maintains any building, structure, or sign or part thereof in violation of
this Ordinance, and any person who uses any building, structure, or land in
violation of the Ordinance, shall be subject to civil penalties and enforcement
action in accordance with this Chapter.
   11.1.4   Each Day a Separate Violation
   Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate and distinct
violation or offense.
(Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
11.2   RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS
   11.2.1   Enforcement Responsibility
   The Directors of Planning, Development Services, Transportation and
Facilities, Public Safety, and/or Inspections and Permits or their designees
shall have responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this Ordinance.
   11.2.2   Appeals
      (A)   Appeals of Building Permit Issues
         Any appeals of North Carolina State Building Code issues (including
revocation of building permits) must be made to the North Carolina Building
Code Council.
      (B)   Appeals of Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Decisions
Pursuant to Section
14.4
         (1)   Civil Penalties
            Civil penalty assessments related to soil erosion and sedimentation
control may be contested within thirty (30) calendar days of the assessment by
filing an appeal with the Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance with Section
3.21.
         (2)   Other Decisions
            Other decisions rendered pursuant to Section
14.4 of this Ordinance may be appealed to the North Carolina Sedimentation
Control Commission in accordance with G.S. 113A-61.
      (C)   Appeal of Stop Work Orders
         Appeals of stop work orders involving violation of the North Carolina
State Building code shall be made to the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to
G.S. 160D-1114. Appeals of all other stop work orders except those issued
pursuant to Section
14.4 of this Ordinance shall be made to the Zoning Board of Adjustment in
accordance with Section
3.21.
      (D)   Appeal of Notice of Violation Civil Penalties and Fines (Except
Pursuant to Section
14.4)
         Appeal of a Notice of Violation issued pursuant to Section
11.6 of this Ordinance, or appeal of a civil penalty or fine (except those
issued pursuant to Section
14.4), shall be made to the Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to Section
3.21 of this Ordinance. Appeals of civil penalties must be made within thirty
(30) days of receipt of the first citation issued for the violation.
   11.2.3   Inspections
      The Directors of Planning, Development Services, Transportation and
Facilities, Public Safety, and/or Inspections and Permits or their designees
shall have the authority, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter and
inspect any land, building, structure, or premises to ensure compliance with
this Ordinance. In exercising this power, staff are authorized to enter any
premises within the jurisdiction of the local government at all reasonable
hours for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action, upon
presentation of proper credentials; provided, however, that the appropriate
consent has been given for inspection of areas not open to the public or that
an appropriate inspection warrant has been secured.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05;
Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-
04, 11-17-11; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-14-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15;
Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2021-
LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
11.3   SPECIFIC VIOLATIONS
   11.3.1   Land Disturbing Activities Inconsistent with Ordinance
   It shall be a violation of this Ordinance to excavate, grade, cut, clear, or
undertake any other land-disturbing activity contrary to the provisions of this
Ordinance, including, but not limited to:
      (A)   Failure to install or maintain protection measures; or
      (B)   Initiating or continuing a land-disturbing activity for which an
erosion control plan is required either in violation of the erosion control
plan or by failing to obtain a valid erosion control plan.
   11.3.2   Nonconformities Inconsistent with Ordinance
   It shall be a violation of this Ordinance to create, expand, replace, or
change any nonconformity except in compliance with this Ordinance.
   11.3.3   Increasing Intensity or Density of Use
   It shall be a violation of this Ordinance to increase the intensity or
density of use of any land or structure except in compliance with this
Ordinance.
   11.3.4   Making Lots, Setbacks, Buffers, or Open Space Nonconforming
   It shall be a violation of this Ordinance to reduce or diminish the lot
area, setbacks, buffers, or required open space to a size, proportion or amount
which is smaller than required under this Ordinance.
   11.3.5   Activities Inconsistent with Conditions of Plan Approval or Permit
   It shall be a violation of this Ordinance to engage in any development, use
of land, construction, remodeling, or other activity contrary to the terms and
conditions of any plan approval, permit, or other form of authorization
required to engage in such an activity.
   11.3.6   Failure to Remove Signs
      It shall be a violation of this Ordinance to fail to remove any sign
installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of this Ordinance, or
for which the sign permit has lapsed.
   11.3.7   Removal of, Damage to, Disturbance of and Pruning of Vegetation
Inconsistent with Ordinance
      It shall be a violation of this Ordinance to remove, damage, disturb or
prune vegetation contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance, including, but
not limited to the following. For the purposes of this Section
11.3.7, "disturbance" shall be defined as any action that results in injury or
harm to required trees, shrubbery or other vegetation.
      (A)   Disturbance of existing grade beyond the proposed limits of grading
as indicated on the approved landscaping plan so as to disturb the root zone
within the drip line of any significant vegetation indicated for preservation;
      (B)   Exposure of plants to severe hydrologic changes, damaging fumes or
chemicals, or excessive temperatures, such as from fire;
      (C)   Cutting or wounding of plants, including severe pruning;
      (D)   Damaging and/or destroying the interior significant vegetation,
interior specimen significant vegetation, buffers or tree save areas that are
required to be protected based upon an approved site/subdivision plan.
(Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15)
11.4   REMEDIES AND PENALTIES FOR EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL VIOLATIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION
14.4
   The Town shall have the following remedies and enforcement powers to
prevent, correct, stop, abate, or penalize a violation of Section
14.4 of this Ordinance. The remedies provided for violations of Section
14.4 of this Ordinance, whether civil or criminal, shall be cumulative and in
addition to any other remedy provided by law, and may be exercised in any
order.
   11.4.1   Deny or Withhold Development Approval
   The Director may deny or withhold development approvals to use or develop
any land, structure, or improvements until an alleged violation and associated
civil penalty related to such property, use, or development is corrected. This
provision shall apply whether or not the current owner or applicant for
development approval is responsible for the violation.
   11.4.2   Revoke Development Approval
      Any development approval required under this Ordinance may be revoked
when the Director determines that:
      (1)   There is a substantial departure from the approved application,
plans, specifications, or conditions as required under the development
approval;
      (2)   The development approval was procured by false statements or
misrepresentations;
      (3)   The development approval was mistakenly issued in violation of an
applicable State law or this Ordinance; or
      (4)   There is a refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of
this Ordinance or any State law delegated to the Town for enforcement purposes
in lieu of the State.
      In accordance with Section
3.1.16, the Town shall follow the same development review and approval process
required for issuance of the development approval, including any required
notice or hearing, in the review and approval of any revocation of that
approval.
      Written notice of revocation shall be served upon the holder of the
development approval, the property owner, and the agent, applicant, or other
person to whom the development approval was issued, by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application if holder of the
development approval is different from the owner. Such notice may also be
posted in a prominent location at the place of violation. No work or
construction shall proceed after service of the revocation notice.
   11.4.3   Issue Stop Work Order
   A stop work order may be issued in accordance with Section
11.5.1(D) of this Ordinance.
   11.4.4   Notice of Violation Civil Penalties
   Any person who knowingly or willfully violates Section
14.4 of this Ordinance, or who initiates or continues a land-disturbing
activity for which an erosion control plan is required other than in accordance
with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved erosion control plan,
is subject to a civil penalty as provided in G.S. 113A-64, as amended, the
provisions of which are incorporated herein by reference.
      (A)   Process
         If the Director determines that a person engaged in a land-disturbing
activity has failed to comply with Section
14.4, the Director shall serve a notice of violation upon that person. The
notice may be served by any means authorized under G.S. 1A-1, Rule 4, and shall
specify a date by which the person must come into compliance and shall inform
the violator of the actions that need to be taken to comply. Any person who
fails to comply within the time specified is subject to additional civil and
criminal penalties of a continuing violation. The Director shall notify the
person who is assessed the civil penalty of the amount of the penalty and the
reason for assessing the penalty. The notice of assessment shall be served by
any means authorized under G.S. 1A-1, Rule 4 and shall direct the violator to
either pay the assessment, contest the assessment within thirty (30) days by
filing an appeal with the Zoning Board of Adjustment, or file a remission
request with the Sedimentation Control Commission in compliance with the
provisions of G.S. 113A-64.2 within 30 days of receipt of the notice of
assessment. An assessment that is not contested is due when the violator is
served with a notice of assessment. If a violator does not pay the penalty
assessed within thirty (30) days after it is due the town may institute a civil
action to recover the amount of the assessment. Civil penalties collected by
the Town under this subsection shall be remitted to the Civil Penalty and
Forfeiture Fund in accordance with G.S. 115C-457.2. Penalties collected by the
Town may be diminished only by the actual costs of collection. The collection
cost percentage to be used shall be established and approved by the North
Carolina Office of State Budget and Management on an annual basis, based upon
the computation of actual collection costs by the Town for the prior fiscal
year.
      (B)   Amount
         The Director may assess civil penalties as provided in
Table 11.4-1. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a separate
violation which may be assessed from the date the notice of violation is
served, except where specified as a one-time-only penalty. In determining the
amount of the penalty, the Director shall consider the maximum penalty allowed
per
Table 11.4-1, as well as the following: the degree and extent of harm caused by
the violation; the cost of rectifying the damage; the amount of money the
violator saved by noncompliance; whether the violation was committed willfully;
and the prior record of the violator in complying or failing to comply with
Section
14.4.
 
TABLE 11.4-1 CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION
CONTROL REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION
14.4
ACTION DESCRIPTION MAXIMUM PENALTY
TABLE 11.4-1 CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF SEDIMENTATION AND EROSION CONTROL
REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION
14.4
ACTION                     DESCRIPTION                MAXIMUM PENALTY
                           One-time-only civil
                           penalty for the day a
                           willfull violation of the
Penalty for Willful        requirements of Section    $5,000
Violation                  14.4 is detected, based
                           upon whether the violation
                           has resulted in off-site
                           sedimentation.
                           One-time civil penalty for
Penalty for Violation of   violation of a stop-work
Stop Work Order            order issued pursuant to   $5,000
                           the authority contained in
                           G.S. 113A-65.1
                           Failure to secure a valid
Grading Without a Plan     required grading permit    $5,000 per day
                           prior to conducting a land
                           disturbing activity
                           Failure to take all
                           reasonable measures to
                           protect public property or
Failure to Protect         private property from      $5,000 per day
                           damage caused by failure
                           to retain sediment on
                           site.
                           Failure to conduct a land
                           disturbing activity in
Failure to Follow Plan     accordance with the        $2,500 per day
                           provisions of an approved
                           erosion and sedimentation
                           control plan.
                           Failure, when twelve
                           thousand (12,000) sq. ft.
                           or more is disturbed, to
                           install erosion and
                           sedimentation control
Failure to Install Devices devices sufficient to      $5,000 per day
                           retain the sediment
                           generated by the land
                           disturbing activity within
                           the boundaries of the
                           tract(s) and prevent off-
                           site sedimentation.
Failure to Maintain        Failure to maintain
Permanent and/or Temporary adequate erosion control   $2,500 per day
Measures                   measures.
                           Failure, within fifteen
                           (15) calendar days of
                           completion of any phase of
                           grading, whichever period
Failure to Protect Exposed is shorter, to plant or
Slopes                     otherwise provide exposed, $2,500 per day
                           graded slopes or fills
                           with ground cover,
                           devices, or structures
                           sufficient to restrain
                           erosion.
                           Failure on a tract where
                           more than twelve thousand
                           (12,000) sq. ft. is
                           disturbed, to plant or
                           otherwise provide ground
Failures to Provide        cover sufficient to
Adequate Cover             restrain erosion within    $2,500 per day
                           fifteen (15) working days
                           or sixty (60) calendar
                           days, whichever period is
                           shorter, following
                           completion of construction
                           of development.
                           Failure to file an
                           acceptable, revised
                           erosion and sedimentation
Failure to Revise Plan     control plan within the    $2,500 per day
                           established deadline after
                           being notified of the need
                           to do so
                           Failure to prevent the     $1,000 per day plus $1.00
Failure to Keep Dirt and   accumulation of more than  per every six linear feet
Mud Off Public Streets     an inch of dirt or mud on  of street cleaned by the
                           public streets, plus       city, its employees, or
                                                      its contractor.
                           Failure on cut, graded, of
                           fill slopes to maintain an
Failure to Maintain Slopes angle sufficient to        $2,500 per day
                           prevent slump, creep or
                           other slope failures.
Any Other Action or Failure to Act That Constitutes a $2,500 per day
Violation of This Chapter
 
   11.4.5   Assess Criminal Penalties
   Any person who knowingly or willfully violates the soil erosion and
sedimentation control provisions in Section
14.4 of this Ordinance, or who initiates or continues a land-disturbing
activity for which an erosion control plan is required other than in accordance
with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved erosion control plan,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, pursuant to G.S. 113A-64(b), as amended,
punishable for each day the violation continues by a fine of up to five
thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
   11.4.6   Require Restoration of Disturbed Areas
   The Town may require a person who engaged in a land-disturbing activity
regulated under Section
14.4 and failed to retain sediment generated by the activity as required by
G.S. 113A-57(3) to restore the waters and lands affected by the failure so as
to minimize the detrimental effects of the resulting pollution by
sedimentation. This authority is in addition to any other civil or criminal
penalty or injunctive relief authorized under this chapter or the General
Statutes.
   11.4.7   Private Civil Relief
      (A)   Any person who is injured by a violation of the soil erosion and
sedimentation control provisions in Section
14.4  of this Ordinance, or who is injured by the initiation or continuation of
a land-disturbing activity for which an erosion control plan is required other
than in accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved
erosion control plan, may bring a civil action against the person alleged to be
in violation. The action may seek:
         (1)   Injunctive relief;
         (2)   An order enforcing the regulation, order or erosion control plan
which is being violated;
         (3)   Compensation for damages caused by the violation;
         (4)   Both damages and injunctive relief;
         (5)   Both damages and an enforcement order.
      (B)   If the amount of actual damages, as found by the court or jury in
suits brought under this section, is five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less,
then the plaintiff shall be awarded double the amount of actual damages. If the
amount of actual damages, as found by the court or jury, is greater than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), then the plaintiff shall receive damages in the
amount so found.
      (C)   Civil actions brought under this section shall be brought in the
Superior Court of Wake County. In issuing a final order in such an action, the
court may award litigation costs to any party, including reasonable attorney
fees and expert witness fees, whenever it determines that such an award is
appropriate. Where the plaintiff seeks a temporary restraining order or
preliminary injunction, the court may require the filing of a bond or other
security as determined by the court in its discretion.
      (D)   Nothing in this section shall restrict any right which any person
or class of persons may have under any statute or common law to seek injunctive
or other relief.
(Ord. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-10-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-
01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22;
Ord. No. 2023-LDO-04, 11-16-23)
11.5   REMEDIES AND PENALTIES APPLICABLE TO OTHER SECTIONS OF THE LDO
   The Town shall have the following remedies and enforcement powers to
prevent, correct, stop, abate, or penalize a violation of this Ordinance other
than Section
14.4. The remedies provided for violations of this Ordinance shall be
cumulative and in addition to any other remedy provided by law, and may be
exercised in any order.
   11.5.1   General Remedies and Penalties
      (A)   Deny or Withhold Development Approval
         The Director may deny or withhold development approval to use or
develop any land, structure, or improvements until an alleged violation and
associated civil penalty related to such property, use, or development is
corrected. This provision shall apply whether or not the current owner or
applicant for development approval is responsible for the violation.
      (B)   Revoke Development Approval
         Any development approval required under this Ordinance may be revoked
when the Director determines that:
         (1)   There is a substantial departure from the approved application,
plans, specifications, or conditions as required under the development
approval;
         (2)   The development approval was procured by false statements or
misrepresentations;
         (3)   The development approval was mistakenly issued in violation of
an applicable State law or this Ordinance; or
         (4)   There is a refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of
this Ordinance or any State law delegated to the Town for enforcement purposes
in lieu of the State.
         In accordance with Section
3.1.16, the Town shall follow the same development review and approval process
required for issuance of the development approval, including any required
notice or hearing, in the review and approval of any revocation of that
approval.
         Written notice of revocation shall be served upon the holder of the
development approval, the property owner, and the agent, applicant, or other
person to whom the development approval was issued, by personal delivery,
electronic mail, or by first-class mail. The notice shall be delivered to the
last address listed for the owner of the affected property on the county tax
abstract and to the address provided in the application if holder of the
development approval is different from the owner. Such notice may also be
posted in a prominent location at the place of violation. No work or
construction shall proceed after service of the revocation notice.
      (C)   Assess Civil Penalties
         Except where otherwise specified, violations of this Ordinance shall
subject the offender to the following civil penalties:
 
1st day of violation                         $100
2nd day of violation                         $200
3rd day of violation                         $300
Each day thereafter that violation continues $400
 
         Such penalties may be recovered by the Town in a civil action in the
nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within the prescribed
period of time after he or she has been cited for violation. Proceeds from
civil penalties collected under this Section 11.5 shall go to the State of
North Carolina's school system.
      (D)   Issue Stop Work Orders
         Whenever any work or activity subject to this Ordinance is undertaken
in substantial violation of any state or local law or this Ordinance (including
violations of approved development plans or permits or failures to secure
necessary approvals or permits); or in a manner that endangers life or
property, the Director, or the appropriate inspector, has the authority to
issue a stop work order for the specific part of the work or activity that is
in violation or presents the hazard. Violation of a stop work order shall
constitute a Class I misdemeanor. The following is the procedure for issuing a
stop work order.
         (1)   A stop work order may be issued by the Director or appropriate
staff member (e.g., erosion control officer, site inspector, zoning compliance
officer, building inspector, code enforcement officer) for the site on which
the violation has occurred.
         (2)   The stop work order shall be in writing, directed to the person
doing the work or activity, and shall state the specific work or activity to be
stopped, the reasons therefor, and the conditions under which the work or
activity may be resumed.
         (3)   A copy of the order shall be delivered to the holder of the
development approval and the owner of the property (if that person is not the
holder of the development approval) by personal delivery, electronic delivery,
or first-class mail. The person delivering the stop work order shall certify
that the order was delivered.
         (4)   Upon receipt of such an order on site, the person shall
immediately stop that work described in the stop work order.
         (5)   The Director shall monitor compliance with the stop work order
and shall determine if the conditions for resumption of the work have been met.
         (6)   Once conditions for resumption of the work have been met, the
Director shall rescind the stop work order.
         (7)   Except for stop work orders involving alleged violations of the
State Building Code or any approved local modification, a stop work order may
be appealed pursuant to LDO Section
3.21.
   11.5.2   Additional Remedies and Penalties For Certain Violations
      (A)   Clear Cutting of Trees
         Failure to comply with the provisions of Section 14.5 shall constitute
a violation of this Ordinance, and shall subject an offending party to a series
of actions, including the payment of fines, delay in development plan approval
or building permit issuance, and the requirement to double the amount of
required vegetation as would typically be required during the development plan
review and approval process.
Table 11.5-1 below describes the penalties for non-compliance with this
section. An "X" in a particular cell indicates the associated penalty which
applies:
TABLE 11.5-1: PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE
                           Review of All     Five Year Delay  Landscaping
Type of                    Subsequent        in Approval of a Requirements
Violation Payment of Fines Development Plans Building Permit  Doubled During
                           by Zoning Board   or Development   Development Plan
                           of Adjustment     Plan*            Review
TABLE 11.5-1: PENALTIES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE
                           Review of All   Five Year Delay  Landscaping
                           Subsequent      in Approval of a Requirements
Type of         Payment of Development     Building Permit  Doubled During
Violation       Fines      Plans by Zoning or Development   Development Plan
                           Board of        Plan*            Review
                           Adjustment
Property is
exempt from
Tree Clearing
Certificate
requirements,
but all or
substantially
all**                      X               X                X
vegetation
within required
buffers and/or
vegetation
protection
areas is
removed
Property owner
obtains a Tree
Clearing
Certificate,
but removes
some of the     X                                           X
vegetation
within a
required buffer
and/or tree
protection area
Property is not
exempt from
Tree Clearing
Certificate
requirements;
but property
owner obtains
no Certificate, X          X                                X
and removes
some of the
vegetation
within a
required buffer
and/or tree
protection area
Property is not
exempt from
Tree Clearing
Certificate
requirements;
but property
owner obtains
no Certificate,
and removes all X          X               X                X
or
substantially
all** of the
vegetation
within a
required buffer
and/or tree
protection area
* In determining penalties for noncompliance of tree removal, the Zoning
Board of Adjustment may consider, after conducting a quasi-judicial hearing,
reducing the five (5) year delay in permit/plan approval. Consideration
should be given to how much vegetation was illegally removed, was the
vegetation specimen size or greater, what was the proximity of the disturbed
area to existing residential dwellings, was the buffer willfully disturbed,
etc. The Zoning Board of Adjustment may uphold the entire five (5) year
delay, reduce, or remove this enforcement measure based on the criteria
mentioned above.
** "All or substantially all" shall mean 75 percent or more of the existing
trees with a caliper of four inches or greater.
 
      (B)   Removal or Disturbance of or Damage to Existing Vegetation
         The property owner and/or any person, including the developer,
responsible for the removal or disturbance of or damage to vegetation in any
required landscape areas as prohibited in Section
7.2.13(B) shall also be responsible for replacement of vegetation and payment
of fines as provided below.
         (1)   Replacement of Vegetation
            (a)   The disturbed area shall be revegetated as provided below.
For purposes of this Section
11.5.2(B), "disturbed area" shall be defined as land that has been subjected
to:
               1.   the removal of trees, shrubs, or vegetative cover;
               2.   any action that results in injury or harm to required
trees, shrubbery, or other vegetation;
               3.   any action that reduces the size of a required buffer or
degrades or reduces the required level of screening; and/or
               4.   earthmoving activities, including the addition of fill or
installation of impervious surface.
            (b)   Replacement Planting Plan Required
               Prior to replacement of damaged or removed vegetation, a
replacement planting plan shall be submitted for review and approval by the
Planning Director. The site shall be revegetated in conformance with the
approved replacement planting plan.
            (c)   Maintenance Plan Required
               Where existing vegetation is in poor health or has died as a
result of neglect or of poor maintenance practices, a landscape maintenance
plan shall be submitted and approved in accordance with this Section
11.5.2(B)(1) in order to remedy the violation. In cases where there is an
existing landscape maintenance plan, such plan shall be reviewed and modified
as necessary to address specific issues that may have created the violation. In
addition, the responsible party shall provide such documentation as is
available (e.g. invoices, contracts, etc.) to provide proof that the landscape
maintenance plan will be implemented as approved.
            (d)   Baseline Replacement Standards
               Where vegetation has been damaged or removed in violation of
this Ordinance, replacement vegetation shall be installed in an amount that
meets or exceeds the requirements of subsection 1) and/or 2) below. Where both
individual trees and area of disturbance can be documented for all or part of
the affected area, the calculation of required plant material may include a
combination of the two (2) calculation methods, provided that the combination
used results in the maximum amount of required plan material.
               1)   Individual Trees Documented
                  Where the caliper and quantity of damaged, removed or
disturbed vegetation can be documented, an equal amount of new vegetation
("inch for inch") shall be installed to replace the damaged vegetation.
               2)   Area of Disturbance Documented
                  The following plantings shall be installed for each two
thousand (2,000) square feet of disturbed area:
TABLE 11.5-2 BASELINE REPLANTING REQUIREMENTS PER 2,000 SQ. FT. OF
DISTURBED AREA
Plant Type Number Minimum Caliper Container Size Minimum Height
TABLE 11.5-2 BASELINE REPLANTING REQUIREMENTS PER 2,000 SQ. FT. OF DISTURBED
AREA
Plant Type                 Number Minimum Caliper Container Size Minimum Height
       Upperstory          2      2"              --             8'
Trees  Understory          2      2"              --             8'
       Evergreen 1         6      2"              --             8'
Shrubs Evergreen           7      2"              --             18"
       Deciduous           8      --              --             18"
Groundcover Plants
(applicable only where     22     --              1 gal.         --
slope is 2.5:1 or greater)
1 Where an opaque performance standard is required, evergreen trees shall
provide foliage from ground level up, and shall be planted in staggered double
rows.
 
            (e)   Adjustments to Baseline Replacement Standards
               1)   Intent
                  Natural forested areas, or certain planted areas that have
reached maturity, form a balanced system where screening may be achieved
through a variety of tree and shrub types and sizes. Trees and shrubs within
such systems naturally compete for sunlight and nutrients. While individual
plants do not typically achieve an ideal symmetrical canopy or form, the
overall performance standard of the buffer is achieved as available gaps are
filled in with plant material suitable for the specific site conditions.     
                  In recognition of challenges encountered in recreating a
buffer, streetscape, or other landscape area that has been totally or partially
removed or damaged, the intent of this Section
11.5.2(B)(1)(d) is to allow modification, by the Planning Director, of baseline
replacement standards and other related standards of this Ordinance where
appropriate, taking into account site-specific conditions and other factors
affecting plant growth and health, so as to achieve and maintain to the extent
possible the greater of the required performance standard of the LDO or the
actual performance standard of the buffer area prior to its unauthorized
disturbance.
               2)   Factors for Consideration
                  The following factors shall be taken into account in making
adjustments to baseline replacement standards and related landscape planting
requirements to maximize the potential for the re-vegetated buffer, streetscape
or other landscape area to achieve the required performance standard and meet
the intent expressed in Section
11.5.2(B)(1)(d)(1) above:
                  (a)   type and conditions of significant vegetation remaining
within the landscape area or buffer,
                  (b)   availability of sunlight;
                  (c)   dimension of required planting area;
                  (d)   separation between plants;
                  (e)   impact of installation of new plant material on root
zones of any remaining material;
                  (f)   topography;
                  (g)   proximity of man-made features such as utilities,
buildings, sidewalks and retaining walls; and
                  (h)   other unique site factors or conditions affecting plan
growth and long-term health of the buffer, streetscape or landscape area.
                  Such adjustment may include either reduction or increase in
the minimum number or caliper of trees or shrubs and/or the total number of
caliper inches of tree replacement otherwise required by this Ordinance.
                  In the case of a reduction in the number of replacement tree
or shrubs, and/or the number of caliper inches of replacement trees, fines and/
or off-site installation of plant material shall be required in accordance with
Section
11.5.2(B)(2)(d). The applicant or owner must coordinate with Town staff to
design and implement a plan to plant the balance of the required vegetation on
town properties, town-maintained properties, and/or other public property
within the Town's jurisdiction.
                  Features such as fences and berms may be approved where
appropriate to achieve the required performance standard.
            (f)   Standard Replanting Requirement for Perimeter Buffers on
Individual Residential Lots
               Perimeter buffers within the boundaries of individual
residential lots shall be planted and/or installed to a Type "B" buffer
standard.
         (2)   Fines
            Fines shall be imposed concurrently, and in addition to
revegetation requirements of Section
11.5.2(B)(1), as provided below:
            (a)   Applicability
               Fines imposed by this Section shall not apply to disturbance of
required landscape areas, buffers, and/or streetscapes located on individual
residential lots.
            (b)   Base Fine for Unauthorized Disturbance
               A fine of two thousand dollars ($2,000) shall be imposed for any
unauthorized disturbance, excluding excessive pruning, within the boundaries of
a tree protection area.
            (c)   Calculated Fine Based on Area Disturbed
               A fine of four dollars ($4.00) shall be imposed for every square
foot of area disturbed or from which vegetation was removed or damaged within a
required landscape area.
            (d)   Fine for Caliper Inches Not Replaced
               Where it is determined in accordance with Section
11.5.2(B)(1)(d) that the required number of caliper inches cannot be
accommodated on the site with replacement vegetation, then a fine shall be
imposed in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100) per caliper inch that is
not replaced. The applicant or owner may coordinate with Town staff to design
and implement a plan to plant the balance of the required vegetation on town
properties, town-maintained properties, and/or other public property within the
Town's jurisdiction in lieu of the fine. If the Town determines that replanting
on Town or public properties is not feasible or desirable, then the fine shall
not be abated.
         (3)   Civil Penalties
            Civil penalties shall be imposed for failure to comply with
requirements of this Section
11.5.2(B).
      (C)   Severe Pruning
         (1)   If the planning staff determines that plants have been pruned in
violation of Section
7.2.13(B), then the property owner shall be required to replace the damaged
plant material in accordance with Section
11.5.2(B)(1).
         (2)   If the planning staff determines that the severe pruning has not
compromised the lifespan or structural integrity of the plants, then the
severely pruned material shall remain in place and supplemental plant material
may be required by the planning staff to compensate for the reduced screening.
         (3)   In addition, fines shall be assessed as follows:
 
Violation             Amount of Fines
1st violation         $50 per shrub; and
                      $50 per caliper inch for trees
                      $1,000 base fine plus:
Subsequent violations $100 per shrub; and
                      $100 per caliper inch for trees
 
      (D)   Violation of Historic Preservation Ordinance
         Failure to comply with the provisions of Section
3.27 shall constitute a violation of this Ordinance, and shall subject an
offending party to the following:
         (a)   In addition to any other authorized remedies, in case any
building, structure, site, area or object designated as a historic landmark or
located within a historic district is about to be demolished, materially
altered, remodeled, removed or destroyed, except in compliance with this
Ordinance, the Town or county, the Historic Preservation Commission, or other
party aggrieved by such action may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent such unlawful demolition, destruction, material
alteration, remodeling or removal, to restrain, correct or abate such
violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct with respect to such
building, structure, site, area or object.
         (b)   In addition to any other authorized remedies, in case any
building, structure, site, area or object designated as a historic landmark or
located within a historic district is demolished, materially altered,
remodeled, removed or destroyed, except in compliance with this Ordinance, no
redevelopment plans may be submitted for the property for forty-eight (48)
months from the date of notice of the violation. The waiting period required by
this section may be waived in an individual case, for good cause shown, by the
affirmative vote of three-fourths (3/4) of the Town Council. The decision of
the Historic Preservation Commission may be appealed by following the procedure
set forth in Section
3.21, but the appeal shall be to the Town Council, not the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
         (c)   The Town Council may consider amending or repealing an ordinance
designating a historic landmark.
(Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2019-
LDO-01, 9-26-19; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22;
Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
11.6   ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
   11.6.1   Notice of Violation Procedure
      Except as otherwise provided, the following notice procedure shall be
used to enforce the provisions of this Ordinance. The notice of violation and
assessment procedure for violations of the soil erosion and sedimentation
control provisions in Section
14.4 of this Ordinance are set forth in Section
11.4.4.
      (A)   Notice Required Before Penalty
         No penalty shall be assessed pursuant to this chapter unless and until
the person alleged to be in violation has been notified of the violation in
accordance with this section, with the exception of a violation of a stop work
order, illegal placement of a temporary sign, violation of the soil erosion and
sedimentation control provisions in Section
14.4, or violations subject to Section
11.5.2. In the case of stop work orders, violations shall subject the violator
to immediate imposition of a penalty. In the case of an illegal temporary sign,
the Director shall be authorized to remove such sign immediately without
notice.
      (B)   Notice of Violation and Opportunity to Cure
         Whenever the Director has reasonable cause to believe there exists a
violation of any provision(s) of this Ordinance or any plan, order, condition,
or other development approval (collectively, “development approval”) which has
been approved, issued, or imposed pursuant to this Ordinance, the Director
shall notify the holder of the development approval and the owner of the
property involved (if not the holder of the development approval). Notice may
also be sent to the occupant of the property and/or the person(s) undertaking
the work or activity causing the violation.
      (C)   Written Notice
         Such notice of violation shall be in writing and shall be served by
personal delivery, electronic delivery, or first-class mail. A copy of the
notice may also be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, with a copy also sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed
sufficient if the registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, and the
regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten (10) days after the
mailing. The person providing the notice of violation shall certify that the
notice was provided.
      (D)   Content of Written Notice
         The notice of violation shall describe the violation, shall identify
the provision or provisions of this Ordinance that are being violated, shall
specify what actions must be taken to correct the violation (including an order
to stop any and all work which violates this Ordinance), shall direct the
person to correct the violation within a specified reasonable time period
(beginning on the date such notice is received), and shall warn that more
severe measures (such as a civil penalty) may be assessed or brought against
the person if he or she fails to take appropriate action to cure or correct the
violation.
      (E)   Extension of Time to Cure
         Upon receipt of a written request from a person who received a notice
of violation for an extension of time to cure or correct the violation, the
Director may grant a single extension of time, not to exceed a period of thirty
(30) days, in which the person may cure or correct the violation before the
Director issues a citation pursuant to Section
11.6.2. Such extension of time shall not be granted unless the person can
demonstrate to the Director that the violation cannot be cured or corrected
within the time period specified in the notice of violation because the labor
or materials needed to take appropriate action are unavailable due to
circumstances beyond the control of the person making the request.
      (F)   Corrective Action Taken
         If the violation is cured or corrected within the time period
specified in the notice of violation, or extension of time granted in Section
11.6.1(E), then the Town shall take no further action against the person.
   11.6.2   Citation Procedure
      Any person who, after being given a notice of violation pursuant to
Section
11.6.1, does not comply with this Ordinance within the time period set forth in
the notice of violation, and who continues such violation, or who violates a
stop work order, shall be subject to the penalties and remedies set forth in
Section
11.6. The following citation procedure shall be used to enforce the provisions
of this Ordinance except that the assessment procedure for violations of
Section
14.4 are set forth in Section
11.4.3.
      (A)   Citation for Violation
         The Director shall serve a written citation by any of the methods
specified in Section
11.6.1.
      (B)   Content of Citation
         The citation shall again describe the nature of the violation and any
actions that the alleged violator must take to cure or correct the violation,
and shall specify the amount of any civil penalty that shall be levied against
the alleged violator.
      (C)   Corrective Action Required
         The civil penalty shall be paid and the violation shall be cured or
corrected, within seventy-two (72) hours of receipt of the citation by the
alleged violator, or such other time period, not to exceed thirty (30) days, as
the citation may specify.
      (D)   Action for Recovery of Penalty
         If payment is not made, or the violation is not cured or corrected,
within that time, then the matter shall be referred to the Town Attorney for
institution of a civil action in the name of the Town, in a court of competent
jurisdiction, for recovery of the penalty. Any sums recovered in such actions
shall be used to carry out the purposes and requirements of this Ordinance.
Additionally, if any person against whom a civil penalty has been finally
assessed under this Ordinance seeks a Certificate of Occupancy; an
environmental, grading or building permit; a special use permit; or final
approval of any plat, subdivision plan, site plan or erosion control plan, such
Certificate of Occupancy, permit or final approval may not be granted until
such time as the civil penalty has been paid or arrangements satisfactory to
the Town have been made providing for its payment.
   11.6.3   Summary Removal of Dangerous Signs or Structures
      In the case of a sign or sign structure that the Director reasonably
deems to be in danger of falling or otherwise creating an immediate safety
hazard, the Director is hereby authorized to immediately remove such sign or
sign structure, at the expense of the property owner.
   11.6.4   Injunctive Relief and Other Remedies
      (A)   This Ordinance also may be enforced by revocation of permits or by
any appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction. In any event where a building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any
building, structure, or land is used in violation of the Ordinance, any
appropriate agency of the Town, or any adjacent or nearby property owner who
would be affected by such violation, in addition to other remedies, may
institute an injunction action, mandamus action, or other appropriate
proceeding to prevent the completion or occupation of such building, structure,
or land and/or to stop any development or other activity that violates this
Ordinance. Such actions shall be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (B)   Upon determining that an alleged violation is occurring or is
threatened, the court shall enter such orders and/or judgments as are necessary
to abate or prevent the violation.
      (C)   The institution of an action for injunctive or other relief under
this section shall not relieve any party to such proceeding from any other
penalty prescribed by this chapter for violations of this Ordinance.
   11.6.5   Private Civil Relief for Violation of Sedimentation and Erosion
Control Standards
      (A)   Any person who is injured by a violation of the soil erosion and
sedimentation control provisions in Section
14.4  of this Ordinance, or who is injured by the initiation or continuation of
a land-disturbing activity for which an erosion control plan is required other
than in accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions of an approved
erosion control plan, may bring a civil action against the person alleged to be
in violation. The action may seek:
         (1)   Injunctive relief;
         (2)   An order enforcing the regulation, order or erosion control plan
which is being violated;
         (3)   Compensation for damages caused by the violation;
         (4)   Both damages and injunctive relief;
         (5)   Both damages and an enforcement order.
      (B)   If the amount of actual damages, as found by the court or jury in
suits brought under this section, is five hundred dollars ($500.00) or less,
then the plaintiff shall be awarded double the amount of actual damages. If the
amount of actual damages, as found by the court or jury, is greater than five
hundred dollars ($500.00), then the plaintiff shall receive damages in the
amount so found.
      (C)   Civil actions brought under this section shall be brought in the
Superior Court of Wake County. In issuing a final order in such an action, the
court may award litigation costs to any party, including reasonable attorney
fees and expert witness fees, whenever it determines that such an award is
appropriate. Where the plaintiff seeks a temporary restraining order or
preliminary injunction, the court may require the filing of a bond or other
security as determined by the court in its discretion.
      (D)   Nothing in this section shall restrict any right which any person
or class of persons may have under any statute or common law to seek injunctive
or other relief.
(Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2007-21, 12-13-
07; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No.
2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-
27-22)
11.7   ENFORCEMENT OF SIGN REGULATIONS
   11.7.1   Informal Remedial Procedures
      (A)   For Temporary Signs
         (1)   Process
            For temporary or portable signs erected in violation of
Chapter 9, the enforcement official may proceed directly to formal enforcement
and remedies or may give up to three (3) days' written notice of violation, in
accordance with the procedures outlined below, before beginning formal
enforcement.
         (2)   Removal
            Where it is practicable to do so without disturbing the peace, the
enforcement official may physically remove any temporary or portable sign
placed in violation of this chapter outside a building. Physical removal of the
sign shall relieve the property owner or other person placing the sign of
liability for fines or other remedies after the removal but not before. Removal
of a sign located within the right-of-way allows the Department to charge the
owner with a violation, and charge a fine at the discretion of the Planning
Director.
      (B)   For Other Signs
         (1)   Procedures set forth in this paragraph shall apply to violations
of
Chapter 9 involving any sign other than a temporary or portable sign, erected
or placed in violation of
Chapter 9.
         (2)   The enforcement official shall, where practicable, upon finding
a violation of
Chapter 9 on an occupied site, inform the owner, manager or other responsible
person on the site of the existence and nature of the violation. The
enforcement official shall note in his or her logbook or other record book the
time and place of such contact or, where such contact was not practicable, the
reason that it was not.
         (3)   When the enforcement official has not been successful in making
contact with a responsible individual on the premises at the time of discovery
or inspection of the violation, or where the enforcement official has made such
contact and the violation has not been cured within three (3) business days,
the enforcement official shall give formal notice of violation to the holder of
the sign permit and to the landowner of the property involved, if the landowner
is not the holder of the sign permit, by personal delivery, electronic
delivery, or first-class mail and may be provided by similar means to the
occupant of the property. The person providing the notice of violation shall
certify that the notice was provided. The enforcement official may also give
such notice to the individual or company that placed such sign on the property,
such as the sign contractor or the real estate agent. Such notice shall give
the property owner or occupant at least seven (7) but not more than thirty (30)
days to cure the violation before formal enforcement action begins; the length
of time shall be based on the enforcement official's best judgment regarding
the physical difficulty of eliminating the violation.
         (4)   If, at the expiration of the period given for cure, the property
owner or permit holder has eliminated the violation, there shall be no formal
enforcement action regarding that violation.
         (5)   If, at the expiration of the period given for cure, the property
owner or permit holder has not eliminated the violation but has begun diligent
and good faith efforts to do so, the enforcement official may, but shall not be
required to, give one (1) additional period of not more than thirty (30) days
to complete the elimination of the violation.
         (6)   If, at the expiration of the last available period for cure, the
violation has not been eliminated, the enforcement official shall begin formal
enforcement proceedings. The period allowed for cure shall be computed in the
period of violation for purposes of determining the applicable fine.
      (C)   For Signs on Sites with Continuing Construction
         Where the violation is on a site with continuing construction, the
enforcement official may issue a stop-work order, in accordance with Section
11.4.6 of this section, without following the informal remedial procedures set
forth in this subsection.
      (D)   For Signs on Sites with Recent Violations
         Where the violation is on a site on which there have been one (1) or
more formal notices of violation or formal enforcement actions for violations
of this chapter within the previous year, the enforcement official may proceed
with all formal enforcement procedures without following the informal remedial
procedures set forth in this subsection, or, in her or his sole discretion, the
enforcement official may follow these informal remedial procedures, provided
that the period of cure shall be not more than seven (7) days.
   11.7.2   Formal Enforcement and Remedies
      Any violation or attempted violation of
Chapter 9 or of any conditions or requirement adopted pursuant hereto may be
restrained, corrected, or abated, as the case may be, by injunction or other
appropriate proceedings pursuant to state law. A violation of this chapter
shall be considered a violation of the Town code. The remedies of the Town
shall include the following:
      (A)   Issuing a stop work order for any and all work on any signs on the
same site;
      (B)   Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement that
requires the removal of the sign or the correction of the nonconformity;
      (C)   Imposing civil penalties in accordance with the following schedule:
         (1)   $100 for each offense for the first day of violation; and
         (2)   $250 for each offense for the second day of violation; and
         (3)   $500 for each offense for each day thereafter that the violation
continues.
      (D)   Civil penalties may be enforced and appealed in accordance with the
civil penalty provisions of the LDO or other sections of the Town code; on
appeal, the appellate body may sustain, reverse or modify penalties imposed
under this section;
      (E)   Seeking in court the imposition of any penalties that can be
imposed by such court under this chapter; and
      (F)   In the case of a sign that poses an immediate danger to the public
health or safety, taking such measures as are available to the Town under
applicable provisions of the building and zoning portions of this chapter for
such circumstances.
   11.7.3   Revoke Sign Permit Approval
      Any sign permit required under this Ordinance may be revoked in
accordance with
11.5.1(B).
(Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-02, 4-14-11; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-
003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-006, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-8-16;
Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21)
Chapter 12:   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION, USE CLASSIFICATIONS, AND DEFINITIONS
12.1   INTERPRETATIONS
12.2   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION
   
12.2.1   Meanings and Intent
   
12.2.2   Headings, Illustrations, and Text
   
12.2.3   Lists and Examples
   
12.2.4   Computation of Time
   
12.2.5   Computation of Density
   
12.2.6   References to Other Regulations/Publications
   
12.2.7   Delegation of Authority
   
12.2.8   Technical and Non-Technical Terms
   
12.2.9   Public Officials and Agencies
   
12.2.10   Mandatory and Discretionary Terms
   
12.2.11   Conjunctions
   
12.2.12   Tenses, Plurals, and Gender
12.3   USE CLASSIFICATIONS
   
12.3.1   General
   (A) Purpose
   (B) Structure of This Section
   (C) Unlisted Uses
   
12.3.2   Residential Uses
   (A) Group Living
   (B) Household Living
   
12.3.3   Public/Institutional Uses
   (A) Aviation
   (B) Cemetery
   (C) Cultural Facilities
   (D) Day Care
   (E) Government Services
   (F) Hospital
   (G) Park and Open Space
   (H) Religious Assembly
   (I) Educational Use
   (J) Non-Governmental Utility
   
12.3.4   Commercial Uses
   (A) Agricultural Uses
   (B) Animal Service
   (C) Assembly
   (D) Financial Institution
   (E) Reserved
   (F) Food and Beverage Service
   (G) Office
   (H) Parking
   (I) Public Accommodation
   (J) Recreation/Entertainment, Indoor
   (K) Recreation/Entertainment, Outdoor
   (L) Retail Sales and Service
   (M) Vehicles and Equipment
   (N) Electronic Gaming Operation
   
12.3.5   Industrial Uses
   (A) Industrial Service
   (B) Manufacturing and Production
   (C) Telecommunications Facilities
   (D) Warehouse and Freight Movement
   (E) Waste-Related Uses
12.4   OTHER KEY TERMS DEFINED
12.1   INTERPRETATIONS
   The Planning Director has final authority to determine the interpretation or
usage of terms used in this Ordinance. Any person may request an interpretation
of any term by submitting a written request to the Director who shall respond
in writing within 30 days.
12.2   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION
   The following rules shall apply for construing or interpreting the terms and
provisions of this Ordinance.
   12.2.1   Meanings and Intent
   All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this Ordinance
shall be construed according to the general purposes set forth in Section
1.3 and the specific purpose statements set forth throughout this Ordinance.
When, in a specific section of this Ordinance, a different meaning is given for
a term defined for general purposes in this
Chapter 12, the specific section's meaning and application of the term shall
control.
   12.2.2   Headings, Illustrations, and Text
   In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the text of this
Ordinance and any heading, caption, figure, illustration, table, or map, the
text shall control.
   12.2.3   Lists and Examples
   Unless otherwise specifically indicated, lists of items or examples that use
terms such as "for example," "including," and "such as," or similar language
are intended to provide examples and are not exhaustive lists of all
possibilities.
   12.2.4   Computation of Time
   The time in which an act is to be done shall be computed by excluding the
first day and including the last day. If a deadline or required date of action
falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday observed by the Town, the deadline or
required date of action shall be the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday,
or holiday observed by the Town. References to days are calendar days unless
otherwise stated.
   12.2.5   Computation of Density
   Net available density is determined by dividing the gross parcel size by the
minimum lot size of the zoning district where the parcel is located, and then
rounding down to the whole number. This operation yields a certain number of
units per acre with no decimals.
   12.2.6   References to Other Regulations/Publications
   Whenever reference is made to a resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation,
or document, it shall be construed as a reference to the most recent edition of
such regulation, resolution, ordinance, statute, regulation, or document,
unless otherwise specifically stated.
   12.2.7   Delegation of Authority
   Any act authorized by this Ordinance to be carried out by a specific
official of the Town may be carried out by a designee of such official.
   12.2.8   Technical and Non-Technical Terms
   Words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved
usage of the language, but technical words and phrases that may have acquired a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be construed and understood
according to such meaning.
   12.2.9   Public Officials and Agencies
   All public officials, bodies, and agencies to which references are made are
those of the Town of Cary, unless otherwise indicated.
   12.2.10   Mandatory and Discretionary Terms
   The words "shall," "must," and "will" are mandatory in nature, establishing
an obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision. The words "may"
and "should" are permissive in nature.
   12.2.11   Conjunctions
   Unless the context clearly suggests the contrary, conjunctions shall be
interpreted as follows:
      (A)   "And" indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events apply; and
      (B)   "Or" indicates that one or more of the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events apply.
   12.2.12   Tenses, Plurals, and Gender
   Words used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the
singular number include the plural number and the plural number includes the
singular number, unless the context of the particular usage clearly indicates
otherwise. Words used in the masculine gender include the feminine gender, and
vice versa.
12.3   USE CLASSIFICATIONS
   12.3.1   General
   Use classifications are used to denote a group of similar and commonly-
recognized uses which are grouped together under a single type or
"classification" for the purposes of administration of
Chapter 5 of this Ordinance. This Ordinance contains five types of use
classifications: Residential, Public/Institutional, Commercial, Industrial, and
Accessory uses in addition to Unlisted uses. Proposed developments within the
Planned Development District, Major designation shall only be required to list
general use classifications to denote the types of proposed uses.
      (A)   Purpose
         Use classifications organize land uses and activities into general
"use categories" and specific "use types" based on common functional, product,
or physical characteristics, such as the type and amount of activity, the type
of customers or residents, how goods or services are sold or delivered, and
site conditions. The use classifications provide a systematic basis for
assigning present and future land uses into appropriate zoning districts. Use
classifications describe one or more uses having similar characteristics, but
do not list every use or activity that may appropriately be within the
classification.
      (B)   Structure of This Section
         (1)   Each subsection below first describes common characteristics of
the use category. Principal uses are assigned to the category that most closely
describes the nature of the principal use. Also listed are examples of common
accessory uses, which generally are allowed in conjunction with a principal use
unless otherwise stated in the regulations. Unless otherwise stated, accessory
uses are subject to the same regulations as the principal use.
         (2)   Each subsection also lists specific use types that are included
in the respective use category. If there are no specific use types or if the
list of specific use types is not all-inclusive, this subsection also lists
common examples of other uses included in the respective category.
      (C)   Unlisted Uses
         (1)   Procedure for Approving Unlisted Uses
            Where a particular use category or use type is not specifically
allowed under this Ordinance and is also not prohibited or restricted by this
Ordinance, the Planning Director may permit the use category or type if the
criteria of subsection (2) below are met. The Planning Director shall give due
consideration to the intent of this Ordinance concerning the district(s)
involved, the character of the uses specifically identified, and the character
of the use(s) in question.
         (2)   Criteria for Approving Unlisted Uses
            In order to determine that the proposed use(s) has a impact that is
similar in nature, function, and duration to the other uses allowed in a
specific zoning district, the Planning Director shall assess all relevant
characteristics of the proposed use, including but not limited to the
following:
            (a)   The volume and type of sales, retail, wholesale; size and
type of items sold and nature of inventory on the premises;
            (b)   Any processing done on the premises, including assembly,
manufacturing, warehousing, shipping, distribution; any dangerous, hazardous,
toxic, or explosive materials used in the processing; and
            (c)   The nature and location of storage and outdoor display of
merchandise; enclosed, open, inside or outside the principal building; and
predominant types of items stored (such as business vehicles, work-in-process,
inventory, and merchandise, construction materials, scrap and junk, and raw
materials including liquids and powders); and
            (d)   The type, size and nature of buildings and structures; and
            (e)   The number and density of employees and customers per unit
area of site in relation to business hours and employment shifts; and
            (f)   Transportation requirements, including the modal split for
people and freight, by volume type and characteristic of traffic generation to
and from the site, trip purposes and whether trip purposes can be shared by
other uses on the site; and
            (g)   Parking requirements, turnover and generation, ratio of the
number of spaces required per unit area or activity, and the potential for
shared parking with other uses; and
            (h)   The amount and nature of any nuisances generated on the
premises, including but not limited to noise, smoke, odor, glare, vibration,
radiation and fumes; and
            (i)   Any special public utility requirements for serving the
proposed use, including but not limited to water supply, waste water output,
pre-treatment of wastes and emissions required or recommended, and any
significant power structures and communications towers or facilities; and
            (j)   The impact on adjacent properties created by the proposed use
will not be greater than that of other uses in the zoning district.
         (3)   Determination by the Planning Director; Effects
            All determinations by the Planning Director made pursuant to
subsection (2) above shall be in writing. In making the determination described
in subsection (2) above, the Planning Director shall initiate an amendment to
this Ordinance if the particular use or category of use(s) is likely to be
common or to recur frequently, or that omission of specific inclusion and
reference to this Ordinance is likely to lead to public uncertainty and
confusion. Until final action has been taken on such proposed amendment, the
determination of the Planning Director shall be binding on all officers and
departments of the Town. If no amendment is initiated, the Planning Director's
determination shall thereafter be binding on all officers and departments of
the Town, without further action or amendment of this Ordinance.
         (4)    Appeal of Determination of the Planning Director
            The determination of the Planning Director may be appealed to the
Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section
3.21 of this Ordinance.
   12.3.2   Residential Uses
      (A)   Group Living
         This category is characterized by residential occupancy of a structure
by a group of people who do not meet the definition of "Household Living."
Tenancy is arranged on a monthly or longer basis. Generally, Group Living
structures have a common eating area for residents. The residents may receive
care, training, or treatment, and caregivers may or may not also reside at the
site. Accessory uses commonly include recreational facilities and vehicle
parking for occupants and staff. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Dormitory
            A building used principally to provide rooms for sleeping
accommodations at an educational, public, or religious institution. Common
kitchen, sanitary, and social gathering rooms may also be provided.
         (2)   [Reserved]
         (3)   Life Care Community
            A building or group of buildings that contains dwelling units where
the occupancy is restricted to persons who are at least sixty-two (62) years of
age, or married couples in which one of the persons is at least sixty-two (62)
years of age, and which provides nursing and/or medical care as well as support
services, such as common dining facilities, retail stores, and personal service
establishments, which are operated by the owner of the life care community or
lessees of the owner. Life care communities are designed to meet the residents'
basic needs for shelter, food, and health care, regardless of the level of
independence of the individual resident and regardless of how these needs may
change over time.
         (4)   Nursing Home
            A licensed facility where three (3) or more elderly, chronically
ill, infirm, or incurable persons are provided with food, lodging, and medical
care for compensation. This definition includes congregate care facilities but
not hospitals, clinics, or life care communities (even though a life care
community may include a nursing home as one (1) of its components).
         (5)   Boarding House
            A building arranged or used for lodging as compensation, as further
defined in the NC Building Code, section 202.
      (B)   Household Living
         This use category is characterized by residential occupancy of a
dwelling unit, including occupancy by persons with handicaps, as such term is
defined in the Federal Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. § 3602, or persons with
disabilities, as such term is defined in G.S. Chapter 168, Article 3. Tenancy
is arranged on a month-to-month or longer basis (lodging where tenancy may be
arranged for a period of less than thirty (30) days is classified under the
"Visitor Accommodation" category). Common accessory uses include recreational
activities, raising of pets, gardens, personal storage buildings, hobbies, and
parking of the occupants' vehicles. Home Occupations, Accessory Dwelling Units,
and Caretaker’s Residence are accessory uses that are subject to additional
regulations (see Section
5.3.4). Specific use types include, but are not limited to:
         (1)   Accessory Dwelling Unit
            A dwelling unit that is accessory to and established on the same
building lot as a principal detached dwelling. The unit can be a detached
building or within, or attached to, the principal detached dwelling. An
accessory dwelling unit contains the minimum living facilities required by the
current North Carolina Building Code or applicable ordinance to be classified
as a dwelling unit. Any dwelling meeting this definition shall be regulated as
an accessory dwelling unit, and shall not be considered a Duplex, as defined in
this Ordinance. Manufactured Homes, Recreational Vehicles, and Travel Trailers
may not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         (2)   Bed and Breakfast
            An operator-occupied single-unit residence where eight (8) or fewer
rooms are rented on an overnight basis, for a period of no more than fourteen
(14) consecutive days per guest stay.
         (3)   Caretaker's Residence
            A dwelling unit on the site of a non-residential use and occupied
only by a guard or the person who oversees the operation of the non-residential
facility.
         (4)   Detached Dwelling
            A building that is developed with open yards on all sides, contains
one (1) dwelling unit not attached to any other building or dwelling unit, and
is not on the same lot as any other dwelling unit.
         (5)   Duplex Dwelling
            A building on one (1) lot that has open yards on all sides and
contains two dwelling units that share a common wall or ceiling/floor and have
separate access from the outside.
         (6)   Family Care Home
            A dwelling unit in which room and board, personal care and
habilitation services, with the assistance of support and supervisory
personnel, are provided for not more than six (6) persons with disabilities, as
such term is defined in the Federal Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. § 3602, or
persons with handicaps, as such term is defined in G.S. Chapter 168, Article 3.
         (7)   Group Home
            A dwelling unit in which persons with handicaps, as such term is
defined in the Federal Fair Housing Act, 42 U.S.C. § 3602, or persons with
disabilities, as such term is defined in G.S. Chapter 168, Article 3, live
together as a single housekeeping unit without the assistance of support and
supervisory personnel.
         (8)   Live/Work Unit
            A type of structure combining residential (living) and non-
residential (working) activities.
         (9)   Manufactured Home
            A structure as defined in G.S. 143-145(7). (Note: In 1985, the
State of North Carolina officially changed the term "mobile home" to
manufactured home.)
         (10)   Manufactured Home Park
            A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land which has been so designed
and improved on or before July 1, 2003 so that it contains two (2) or more
manufactured home spaces available to the general public for the placement
thereon of manufactured homes for occupancy; and such use was established prior
to July 1, 2003. This use may include service buildings, areas, and customary
accessory uses necessary to provide laundry, recreation, sanitation, storage,
vending machines, and other similar services provided by the facility operator
primarily for the use and convenience of occupants of the manufactured home
park.
         (11)   Mid-Rise Multi-Family Dwelling
            A building containing individual residential dwelling units
(whether condominiums or apartments) stacked one over another. Such structures
may include non-residential uses, and are generally more than two (2) stories,
but less than six (6) stories in height.
         (12)   Modular Home
            A manufactured building designed to be used as a single-unit
dwelling which has been constructed in accordance with the North Carolina State
Building Code and bears the North Carolina State Approved label. For the
purposes of regulation, these types of dwellings are treated as site-built
dwellings.
         (13)   Multi-Family Dwelling
            A building, other than a townhouse, that contains three (3) or more
individual dwelling units attached along and sharing one (1) or more common
walls between any two (2) units and/or stacked one above the other, or one (1)
or more dwelling units located in the same building as a non-residential use in
a non-residential zoning district. None of the individual dwelling units within
a multi-family dwelling are separated by property lines. This type of structure
shall include any such building, regardless of the form of ownership
(condominium or rental) of the individual dwelling units therein.
         (14)   Patio Dwelling
            A single-unit detached or semi-detached dwelling built in groups of
two (2) or more. Each dwelling unit is built on a small lot owned in fee simple
by the owner of the dwelling unit. Each group of two (2) or more dwelling units
with their appurtenant lots are located on a larger lot that is owned in common
by the owners of dwelling units and fee simple lots. Some or all of this larger
lot is common area used for private open space.
         (15)   Semi-Detached/Attached Dwelling
            A building that contains two (2) to four (4) dwelling units that
share one (1) or more common walls for no less than twenty-five (25) percent
and no more than fifty (50) percent of the depth of the dwelling unit, with
each dwelling unit located on a separate lot.
         (16)   Townhouse
            A single-unit dwelling on its own lot owned in fee simple by the
owner of the dwelling, with a private entrance that is part of a structure
where the dwelling units are all joined side-by-side and separated by party
walls, with no unit being located above or below another unit, and having
totally exposed front and rear walls for access, light, and ventilation. This
shall include any such dwelling, regardless of the form of ownership
(condominium or rental) of the individual dwelling units therein.
         (17)   Detached Multi-Family Dwellings
            Dwelling units, not including a manufactured home, located on a
single lot that contains three (3) or more dwelling units, each developed with
open yards on all sides, where none of the individual dwelling units are
separated by property lines.
   12.3.3   Public/Institutional Uses
      (A)   Aviation
         Improved or unimproved facilities for the landing and takeoff of
flying vehicles, including loading and unloading areas and passenger terminals
for aircraft. Accessory uses include freight handling areas, concessions,
offices, parking and maintenance, and fueling facilities. Specific use types
include:
         (1)   Airport/Landing Strip
            An area designed, used, or intended for use for the landing and
take-off of aircraft, and any supporting operations facilities, such as
maintenance, loading and unloading, storage, fueling, or terminal facilities.
         (2)   Heliport
            An area designed, used, or intended for use for the landing and
take-off of helicopters, and any supporting operations facilities, such as
maintenance, loading and unloading, storage, fueling, or terminal facilities.
      (B)   Cemetery
         Land used or dedicated to the interment of human or animal remains,
including columbarium, mausoleums, and maintenance facilities. May include
crematorium as an accessory use.
      (C)   Cultural Facilities
         Public or nonprofit facilities that display or preserve objects of
interest or providing facilities for one (1) or more of the arts or sciences or
provision of government services. Accessory uses may include parking, offices,
storage areas, and gift shops. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Library
            A public facility for the use, but not sale, of literary, musical,
artistic, or reference materials.
         (2)   Museum
            A building having public significance by reason of its architecture
or former use or occupancy or a building serving as a repository for a
collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities or objects of
interest, or works of art, and designed to be used by members of the public for
loaning or viewing, with or without an admission charge.
      (D)   Day Care
         This use category includes facilities licensed by the North Carolina
Department of Health and Human Services, Division of Child Development that
provide care, protection, and supervision for children or adults on a regular
basis away from their primary residence for less than twenty-four (24) hours
per day. This category does not include public or private schools or facilities
operated in connection with an employment use, shopping center, or other
principal use, where children are cared for while parents or guardians are
occupied on the premises or in the immediate vicinity. Accessory uses include
offices, recreation areas, and parking. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Day Care Center
            A "stand-alone" commercial day care facility intended for the care
of three (3) or more children of any age or more than six (6) adults.
         (2)   Day Care Home, Large
            A day care facility established in a residential dwelling in which
the occupant of the dwelling provides for the care and keeping of seven (7) to
twelve (12) children not related to the care provider by birth, marriage or
adoption or between four (4) and six (6) adults.
         (3)   Day Care Home, Small
            A day care facility established in a residential dwelling for the
care and keeping of up to six (6) children not related to the care provider by
birth, marriage, or adoption or up to three (3) adults.
      (E)   Government Services
         A building, structure, or facility owned, operated, or occupied by a
governmental agency to provide a governmental service to the public. Specific
use types include:
         (1)   Governmental Office
            A building occupied by a governmental agency that provides direct
services to the public such as employment, public assistance, motor vehicle
licensing and registration, and similar activities.
         (2)   Public Safety Station
            A use designed to protect public safety and provide emergency
response services, often located in or near the area where the service is
provided. Employees are regularly present on-site. Accessory uses include
offices and parking. Examples include fire stations, police stations, and
emergency medical and ambulance stations.
         (3)   Public Utility Facility
            Buildings, structures, or other facilities used or intended to be
used by any public agency or utility. (Private or non-governmental utility
facilities are included under "non-governmental utility facilities," below.)
This category includes buildings or structures that house or contain facilities
for the operation of publicly-owned or publicly-licensed water, wastewater,
waste disposal, or electricity services. This use also includes water storage
tanks; radio, television, and microwave transmission or relay towers; and
electric or gas substations, water or wastewater pumping stations, or similar
structures used as an intermediary switching, boosting, distribution, or
transfer station of electricity, natural gas, water, wastewater, cable
television, or telephone services. This category includes passageways,
including easements, for the express purpose of transmitting or transporting
electricity, gas, water, sewage, communication signals, or other similar
services on a local level. Additionally, a public utility facility means any
energy device and/or system that generates energy from renewable energy
resources including solar, hydro, wind, biofuels, wood, geothermal, or similar
sources. Accessory uses may include control, monitoring, data, or transmission
equipment.
         (4)   Town Owned and/or Operated Facilities and Services
            Land, government offices, public safety stations, utility
facilities, buildings, structures and other facilities owned and/or operated by
the Town for providing typical and customary governmental services to citizens
and owners of property within the corporate limits of the Town and its urban
services area. This includes, but is not limited to, administration,
recreation, public safety and protection, social and transportation services.
Such services may or may not be delivered directly at the same site on which
the buildings and facilities are located. Related activities and structures
(above or below ground) typically associated with these uses and accessory to
their operation include, but are not limited to, offices, utility facilities,
indoor/outdoor storage and parking.
      (F)   Hospital
         A licensed public or private institution that provides in-patient
primary health services and medical or surgical care to persons suffering from
illness, disease, injury, deformity, or other physical or mental conditions,
and including related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient, or training
facilities.
      (G)   Park and Open Space
         Uses of land focusing on natural areas, large areas consisting mostly
of vegetative landscaping or outdoor recreation, community gardens, or public
squares. Lands tend to have few structures. Accessory uses may include
clubhouses, playgrounds, maintenance facilities, concessions, caretaker's
quarters, and parking. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Athletic Field, Public
            Land, often requiring equipment, owned by a unit of government and
designed for outdoor games and sports such as baseball, football, and soccer.
         (2)   Community Garden
            A private or public facility for cultivation of fruits, flowers,
vegetables, or ornamental plants by more than one (1) person.
         (3)   Neighborhood Recreation Center, Public
            A common building or area, open to the public, that provides a
focus for recreational, neighborhood, educational and cultural activities for
the residents of that immediate neighborhood.
         (4)   Outdoor Amphitheater, Public
            An outdoor stadium, theater, amphitheater or similar structure
operated by and/or in conjunction with a school, college, university, or by the
Town or other unit of government.
         (5)   Park, Public
            A noncommercial, non-profit facility or land owned by the Town, the
State of North Carolina, or another unit of government which is used or
intended to be used by for recreation, education, or cultural use, including
both active and/or passive recreation.
         (6)   Resource Conservation Facility
            Fish hatcheries and fish ponds; game preserves; botanical and
zoological gardens; water reservoirs and dams.
      (H)   Religious Assembly
         Facilities used primarily for non-profit purposes by a recognized and
legally established sect to provide assembly and meeting areas for religious
activities. Accessory uses include Sunday school facilities, parking,
caretaker's housing, pastor's housing, and group living facilities such as
convents. Examples include churches, temples, synagogues, and mosques, but not
associated schools, day care facilities, or other facilities not devoted to
religious activity.
      (I)   Educational Use
         Public, private, and parochial institutions at the primary,
elementary, middle, high school, or post-secondary level, other than trade or
business schools, which provide educational instruction to students. Accessory
uses include play areas, cafeterias, recreational and sport facilities,
auditoriums, and before- or after-school day care.
         (1)   College or University
            A degree-granting institution, other than a trade school, which
provides education beyond the high-school level, and which may provide lodging
or dwelling units for students or faculty, and typically has programs resulting
in an Associate's, Bachelor's, or Master's degree. In addition to classroom
buildings, it may include offices, laboratories, lecture halls, athletic
facilities, dormitories, and similar buildings.
         (2)   School
            An elementary school, middle school, junior high school, or high
school that does not provide lodging for students, including any accessory
athletic fields and recreational facilities.
         (3)   Pre-School
            A non-residential use operated for the purposes of care of pre-
school-aged children. Employees of such uses are not teachers, and the primary
purpose of the facility is not for education, though such uses may include
educational aspects or activities.
      (J)   Non-Governmental Utility
         Buildings, structures, or other facilities used or intended to be used
by any private or non-governmental utility. (Public utility facilities are
included under "public utility facilities," above.) This category includes
buildings or structures that house or contain facilities for the operation of
privately owned water, wastewater, waste disposal, or electricity services.
This use also includes water storage tanks; radio, television, and microwave
transmission or relay towers; and electric or gas substations, water or
wastewater pumping stations, or similar structures used as an intermediary
switching, boosting, distribution, or transfer station of electricity, natural
gas, water, wastewater, cable television, or telephone services. This category
includes passageways, including easements, for the express purpose of
transmitting or transporting electricity, gas, water, sewage, communication
signals, or other similar services on a local level. Additionally, a private
utility facility means any energy device and/or system that generates energy
from renewable energy resources including solar, hydro, wind, biofuels, wood,
geothermal, or similar sources. Accessory uses may include control, monitoring,
data, or transmission equipment.
         (1)   Utility Facility, Major
            A service of a regional nature that normally entails the
construction of new buildings or structures, and that typically has employees
at the site. Examples include water works, reservoirs, power or heating plants,
or steam generating plants.
         (2)   Transportation Facility
            A facility or location that receives and discharges passenger and
at which facilities and equipment required for their operation are provided.
Examples include terminals for bus, trolley, taxi, commuter/passenger railroad,
shuttle van, or other similar vehicular services.
         (3)   Utility Substation, Minor
            A service that is necessary to support development within the
immediate vicinity and that involves only minor structures. Employees typically
are not located at the site. Examples include electric transformer stations,
gas stations, telephone exchange buildings, and well, water, and sewer pumping
stations.
   12.3.4   Commercial Uses
      (A)   Agricultural Uses
         Activities that primarily involve raising, producing, or keeping
plants or animals, or cultivation and management of other natural resources.
Accessory uses may include dwellings for proprietors and employees, barns,
storage of grain, animal raising, feed preparation, and wholesale sales of
products produced on-site. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Agri-Tourism
            An area of land used for the purpose of education and participation
in an agricultural related business operation.
         (2)   Farming, General
            An area of land used for the commercial production of agricultural
products such as crops, dairy products, livestock, poultry, and beekeeping
products.
         (3)   Forestry
            The science, business, and art of creating, conserving, and
managing forests or forestlands for the continuing uses of commodity and
noncommodity benefits.
         (4)   Produce Stand
            A structure and/or area devoted to the small scale retail and/or
wholesale sales of agricultural goods or products which have been grown on the
same site or property as the stand.
      (B)   Animal Service
         Uses that involve the selling, boarding, or care of animals on a
commercial basis. Accessory uses may include confinement facilities for
animals, parking, and storage areas. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Kennel
            An establishment where domesticated animals are kept, sold,
boarded, or bred, typically with fenced or enclosed spaces, areas, or runs for
individual animals. Kennels may be indoor only, or indoor/outdoor, depending on
the zoning district in which they are located; see Table
5.1-1. Ancillary services may include pet grooming.
         (2)   Veterinary Hospital/Office
            An establishment for the care and treatment of animals that are
admitted for daytime and/or overnight stay in order to obtain veterinary
treatment for illnesses, diseases, or injuries. Such facilities may be indoor
only, or may have both indoor and outdoor facilities, depending on the zoning
district in which they are located; see Table
5.1-1.
      (C)   Assembly
         Buildings, facilities owned or operated by associations, corporations,
or other persons for social, educational, or recreational purposes primarily
for members and their guests as well as out-patient rehabilitation and
counseling services. Accessory uses may include offices, meeting areas, food
preparation areas, concessions, parking, and maintenance facilities. Specific
use types include, but are not limited to:
         (1)   Club, Lodge, or Hall
            An organization and its premises catering exclusively to members
and guests for social, intellectual, recreational, or athletic purposes not
intended for profit.
         (2)   Special Event Center
            A facility or building used by individuals or groups for the
purpose of hosting private assemblies and/or functions such as parties,
weddings, banquets, business conferences and other similar types of events.
Such facilities may include an on-site kitchen and/or food preparation areas.
Food and beverages may be served to event guests, but are not served to the
general public. This use does not include facilities that are part of a club,
lodge or hall use as defined in this Ordinance.
      (D)   Financial Institution
         Establishments that provide retail banking services, mortgage lending,
and similar financial services to individuals and businesses. This
classification includes those institutions engaged in the on-site circulation
of cash money and check-cashing facilities. Accessory uses may include
automatic teller machines, offices, and parking. Financial institutions may or
may not have drive-through service depending on the zoning district in which
they are located; see Table
5.1-1.
         (1)   Bank, with Drive-Through Service
            A financial institution with a drive-though window that is open to
the public and engaged in deposit banking, and that performs closely related
functions, such as making loans, investments, and fiduciary activities.
         (2)   Bank, without Drive-Through Service
            A financial institution without a drive-though window that is open
to the public and engaged in deposit banking, and that performs closely related
functions, such as making loans, investments, and fiduciary activities.
      (E)   Reserved
      (F)   Food and Beverage Service
         Businesses serving prepared food or beverages for consumption on or
off the premises. Accessory uses may include food preparation areas, offices,
and parking.
         (1)   Nightclub/Bar
            An establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold at retail for
consumption on the premises and where minors are usually excluded and where
dancing and musical entertainment may also be provided. This shall include
taverns, lounges, eating establishments and private clubs where gross receipts
from alcoholic beverages exceed gross receipts from food, but shall not include
restaurants as defined by G.S. 18B-1000(6). Nightclubs/bars may be indoor only,
or may also have outdoor operations, depending on the zoning district in which
the use is located; see Table
5.1-1.
         (2)   Restaurant
            A commercial establishment whose principal purpose is the
preparation and sale of food and beverages in a state that is ready to eat,
either on the premises or off the premises. Restaurants may be indoor only, or
may also have outdoor operations, depending on the zoning district in which the
use is located; see Table
5.1-1.
      (G)   Office
         Office uses are characterized by activities generally focusing on
business, professional, health care, insurance, or financial services.
Accessory uses may include cafeterias, health facilities, parking, or other
amenities primarily for the use of employees in the firm or building. Specific
use types include:
         (1)   Office, Business, or Professional
            A use or building where business is conducted that does not
primarily involve the sale or transfer of goods by the business to the customer
at that location. This includes, but is not limited to, general business
offices, health care offices, insurance offices, law offices, and real estate
sales and management offices. (Government offices are classified under
"Government Services," above.)
         (2)   Radio or TV Broadcasting Studio
            A programming origination studio of a television station, radio
station, or cable television provider.
         (3)   Wellness Center
            An establishment containing customized health services that may
include fitness, personal training and nutrition consulting, incorporating an
individualized program with specific goals. Clients are generally under the
supervision of licensed staff which may include health care providers,
nutritionists, personal trainers, and practitioners of medical and other
specialties such as chiropractic, acupuncture and biofeedback. Clients may be
enrolled in an individualized nutritional and fitness program and may exercise
independently or in small group settings. Amenities often include limited
weights and cardio machines.
      (H)   Parking
         (1)   Parking Lot
            An off-street, surfaced, ground level area where motor vehicles are
stored for temporary, daily, or overnight parking.
         (2)   Parking Structure
            A structure or facility designed with one (1) or more levels or
floors partially or fully enclosed and used exclusively for the parking or
storage of motor vehicles. The facility may be above, below, or partially below
ground. Includes parking garages and parking decks.
      (I)   Public Accommodation
         For-profit facilities where lodging, meals, and the like are provided
to transient visitors and guests for a defined period. Specific use types
include:
         (1)   Hotel or Motel
            A building or a group of buildings primarily containing guest rooms
for sleeping purposes, but also including accessory dining areas, meeting
rooms, and recreational facilities.
         (2)   Hotel or Motel, Extended Stay
            A hotel or motel typically rented or hired out for periods of one
(1) week or more that also provides kitchen facilities with refrigerators,
stoves, and ovens for food preparation in individual rooms.
      (J)   Recreation/Entertainment, Indoor
         Uses that provide primarily indoor recreation or entertainment
activities but may include associated outdoor activities. Accessory uses may
include concessions, snack bars, parking, and maintenance facilities. Specific
use types include, but are not limited to:
         (1)   Amusement Establishment
            An establishment offering sports, game playing, or similar
amusements to the public within a fully enclosed building. This shall include
bowling alleys, billiard parlors, and skating rinks. This shall not include
neighborhood recreation centers or such amusements that are accessory to
churches, schools, or colleges.
         (2)   Neighborhood Recreation Center (Indoor/Outdoor)
            A building, structure, or facility available for recreational clubs
and activities. Such uses commonly include clubhouses, restaurants, tennis
courts and swimming pools, restaurants for members and guests only, and
gymnasiums. Such uses may be either public or private, but typically are
intended only for the residents and guests of a particular residential
development or neighborhood.
         (3)   Commercial Recreational Facilities (Indoor/Outdoor)
            A recreational facility operated as a business, and which is open
to members of the general public for a fee and provides instructional classes
and/or equipment and practice area for sports-related or physical fitness
activities. Such uses generally include, but are not limited to: gyms, health
clubs, courts, pools, and group instruction classes such as dance, yoga, and
martial arts.
         (4)   Pool or Billiard Hall
            A business establishment with more than two (2) pool or billiard
tables for the use of patrons, and whose primary use is for billiards, not a
nightclub/bar.
         (5)   Theater
            An indoor or outdoor structure or establishment used for showing
motion pictures or for dramatic, operatic, dance, musical, or other live
performances. May include food and beverage sales and similar concessions.
Theaters may be small (up to two hundred (200) seats) or large (two hundred one
(201) seats or more).
      (K)   Recreation/Entertainment, Outdoor
         Uses that provide primarily outdoor recreation or entertainment
activities but may include associated indoor activities. Accessory uses may
include concessions, snack bars, parking, and maintenance facilities. Specific
use types include, but are not limited to:
         (1)   Athletic Field, Private
            Privately owned land, often requiring equipment, designed for
outdoor games and sports such as baseball, football, and soccer.
         (2)   Commercial Outdoor Recreation Facility
            Includes intensely developed, for-profit recreational uses such as
amusement parks, miniature golf courses, batting cages, skateboard or skate
courses, bicycle motocross courses, go-cart tracks, water slides, drive-in
movie theaters, and courses for paramilitary games.
         (3)   Golf Course, Privately-Owned
            A tract of land laid out with a course having nine (9) or more
holes for playing the game of golf, including any accessory clubhouse, driving
range, office, restaurant, concession stand, picnic tables, pro shop,
maintenance building, restroom facility, or similar accessory use or structure.
This term shall not include miniature golf courses as a principal or accessory
use, nor shall it include driving ranges that are not accessory to a golf
course.
         (4)   Golf Driving Range
            A sports facility equipped with tee areas, distance markers, and
related features for practicing golf, and which may include a pro shop, snack
bar, but excludes miniature golf courses.
         (5)   Motor Vehicle Raceway
            A for-profit facility designed or operated for racing trucks,
tractors, automobiles, motorcycles or any other motorized vehicle.
         (6)   Outdoor Amphitheater, Commercial
            An outdoor, for-profit facility or structure with tiers of
spectator seats around a stage, court, or field not constructed or operated in
conjunction with a bar, nightclub, lounge, restaurant, school, college,
university, or the Town.
      (L)   Retail Sales and Service
         Retail sales firms are involved in the sale, lease or rent of new or
used products, or the provision of certain services, to the general public. No
outdoor display is permitted unless specifically authorized by this Ordinance.
Accessory uses may include offices, parking, storage of goods, and assembly,
repackaging or repair of goods for on-site sale. Specific use types include,
but are not limited to:
         (1)   ABC Store
            A store, licensed by the North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control
Commission, for the retail sale of alcoholic beverages.
         (2)   Convenience Store
            A retail establishment with a floor area of less than five thousand
(5,000) square feet, which sells a limited line of groceries and household
items, gasoline, and/or beer and wine generally intended for the convenience of
the neighborhood, but not including an automobile service station.
         (3)   Farm Market
            An area that is used by one (1) or more operators of bona fide
farms for the direct sale to consumers of agricultural products that are not
grown or raised on the same premises as the market.
         (4)   Funeral Home
            A building, or portion thereof, used for funeral services in
preparation of the dead for burial. Such uses may include a chapel or gathering
area, facilities needed for cremation, storage of required materials, vehicles,
or supplies, but not for the interment of remains.
         (5)   Crematorium
            An establishment for the burning of human or animal remains.
         (6)   Postal Center, Private
            A business not operated by the US Postal Service that provides
facilities for mailing packages and letters, receiving packages and letters in
post office boxes, and similar activities.
         (7)   Personal Service Establishment
            A business that provides individual services related to personal
needs directly to customers at the site of the business, or that receives goods
from or returns goods to the customer which have been treated or processed at
that location or another location. This includes businesses such as travel
agencies, dry-cleaners, laundries, tailors, hair and nail salons, massage
business and spa services, cosmeticians, toning or tanning salons, photocopy
centers, shoe repair shops, appliance repair shops, interior design studios,
tutoring services, one-on-one fitness instruction and pet grooming
establishments. This shall not include automobile service stations, wellness
centers, or Commercial Indoor/Outdoor Recreation uses.
         (8)   Retail Store
            A commercial enterprise that provides goods, products, or materials
directly to the consumer. This includes clothing stores, appliance stores,
bakeries, food stores, grocers, caterers, pharmacies, bookstores, florists,
furniture stores, hardware stores, pet stores, toy stores, and variety stores.
It does not include restaurants, personal service establishments, convenience
stores, or amusement establishments.
         (9)   Adult Business
            Any business or enterprise that has as one (1) of its principal
business purposes or as a significant portion of its business an emphasis on
matter and conduct depicting, describing, or related to anatomical areas and
sexual activities specified in G.S. 14-202.10. The term "Adult Business" does
not include "Massage Business" as defined in LDO Section
12.4.
         (10)   Shopping Center, General
            A building or group of buildings, with common parking, pedestrian
circulation, ingress and egress, either freestanding or connected and under
unified or multiple ownership of land parcels, which contains two (2) or more
commercial or retail uses, one (1) or more of which is a primary or anchor
retail tenant occupying a minimum of twenty-five thousand (25,000) square feet
of floor area. No more than forty percent (40%) of the cumulative building
square footage (existing and/or proposed) of the center shall be allocated for
uses other than retail sales and services (
12.3.4(L)) and/or Food and Beverage Services (
12.3.4(F)).
         (11)   Shopping Center, Small
            A building or group of buildings, with common parking, pedestrian
circulation, ingress and egress, which are typically one (1) story tall and one
(1) store deep, either freestanding or connected and under unified or multiple
ownership of land parcels, which contains two (2) or more commercial or retail
uses, with no individual use occupying more than twenty-five thousand (25,000)
square feet of floor area. No more than forty percent (40%) of the cumulative
building square footage (existing and/or proposed) of the center shall be
allocated for uses other than retail sales and services (
12.3.4(L)) and/or Food and Beverage Services (
12.3.4(F)).
         (12)   Trade School
            A school, other than a college, which provides specialized training
and education beyond the high school level, principally in the business,
commercial, or vocational arts, and does not provide lodging or dwelling units
for students or faculty, and has programs which typically result in the
awarding of a certificate.
         (13)   Moped Sales/Rental
            A business establishment offering the sale and/or rental of mopeds
as defined by G.S. 105-164.3.
      (M)   Vehicles and Equipment
         Vehicle and Equipment facilities include a broad range of uses for the
sale, rental, and/or maintenance of motor vehicles and related equipment. Large
parking areas and outdoor storage areas may be included with these uses.
Accessory uses may include incidental repair and storage, offices, and sales of
parts and/or tires. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Motor Vehicle Sales/Rental
            The storage, display, sale, lease or rental of motor vehicles as
defined by G.S. 20-4.01, including automobiles, vans, and light trucks. Such
businesses may also include sales and/or rental of mopeds. This shall not
include salvage operation or scrap operations.
         (2)   Car Wash
            A commercial establishment that washes, cleans, and/or waxes
automobiles or other motor vehicles, whether or not in conjunction with other
goods or services provided to customers.
         (3)   Heavy Equipment Sales/Rental
      The storage, display, sale, lease or rental of vehicles or other
apparatus commonly used in commercial, industrial, or construction enterprises,
including trucks, trailers, bulldozers, cranes, backhoes, rollers, lifts, and
loaders. This shall not include salvage operations or scrap operations.
         (4)   Towing/Storage Facility
            A commercial establishment engaged in towing of vehicles or
equipment from one (1) location to another. Such facilities may also include an
indoor or outdoor storage component for such vehicles or equipment, but may not
include junked, salvage or permanently inoperable vehicles or equipment.
         (5)   Vehicle Filling Station
            A facility limited to retail sales of vehicle fuels, oils, and
accessories where repair service, if any, is incidental to the activities on
the site.
         (6)   Vehicle Repair, Heavy
            The use of a site for the repair and maintenance of trucks,
trailers, commercial and/or construction vehicles.
         (7)   Vehicle Service, Light
            Any building, structure, or lot used for one or more of the
following: (1) dispensing, selling, or offering for retail sale items such as
gasoline, kerosene, lubricating oil, or grease for the operation and
maintenance of automobiles, including the sale and installation of tires,
batteries and other minor accessories and services for automobiles; or (2) the
business of repairing automobiles. This shall not include car washes, the
retreading and/or recapping of tires, or convenience stores which sell gasoline
or lubricating oil, but not other automotive accessories or services.
         (8)   Private Transportation Service
            A business that provides transportation services to move people
from one (1) location to another location using passenger vehicles such as
sedans, special utility vehicles, limousines, vans or buses. The business may
include both an office component and a parking component, with the opportunity
for the parking component to occur independently of the office component if
certain conditions are met. This use does not include taxis or medical
transportation vehicles.
      (N)   Electronic Gaming Operation
         Any business or enterprise where persons utilize electronic machines,
including but not limited to computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games
of chance or sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise or anything else of value
is redeemed or otherwise distributed or placed on an account or other record,
whether or not the value of such distribution is determined by electronic games
played or by predetermined odds. Electronic gaming operations may include, but
are not limited to, internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, electronic gaming
machines/operations, cybercafés, business centers, or by whatever other
terminology such establishment might be known. Electronic gaming operation does
not include any lottery approved by the State of North Carolina.
   12.3.5   Industrial Uses
      (A)   Industrial Service
         Industrial Service firms are engaged in the repair or servicing of
agricultural, industrial, business, or consumer machinery, equipment, products,
or by-products. Firms that service consumer goods do so by mainly providing
centralized services for separate retail outlets. Contractors and building
maintenance services and similar uses perform services off-site. Few customers,
especially the general public, come to the site. Accessory activities may
include retail sales, offices, parking and storage. Hotels, restaurants, and
other services that are part of a truck stop are considered accessory to the
truck stop. Specific use types include:
         (1)   General Industrial Service
            Manufacturing of finished parts or products, or storage and
handling of such products and materials. Examples include, without limitation:
welding shops; machine shops; tool repair; electric motor repair; repair of
scientific or professional instruments; sales, repair, storage, salvage or
wrecking of heavy machinery, metal, and building materials; building, heating,
plumbing or electrical contractors with on-site storage; publishing and
lithography; exterminators; janitorial and building maintenance services with
on-site storage; fuel oil distributors; sawmills; solid fuel yards; laundry,
dry-cleaning and carpet cleaning plants; and photo-finishing laboratories.
         (2)   Research Laboratory
            A facility that is designed or equipped for basic or applied
research or experimental study, testing, or analysis in the natural sciences or
engineering, including any educational activities associated with and accessory
to such research.
      (B)   Manufacturing and Production
         This use category includes firms involved in the manufacturing,
processing, fabrication, packaging, or assembly of goods. Natural, man-made,
raw, secondary, or partially completed materials may be used. Products may be
finished or semi-finished and are generally made for the wholesale market, for
transfer to other plants, or to order for firms or consumers. Custom industry
is included (i.e., establishments primarily engaged in the on-site production
of goods by hand manufacturing involving the use of hand tools and small-scale
equipment). Goods are generally not displayed or sold on site, but if so, they
are a subordinate part of sales. Relatively few customers come to the
manufacturing site. Accessory activities may include retail sales, offices,
cafeterias, parking, employee recreational facilities, warehouses, storage
yards, repair facilities, truck fleets and caretaker's quarters. Specific use
types include:
         (1)   Manufacturing, Heavy
            The assembly, fabrication, or processing of goods and materials
using processes that ordinarily have greater than average impacts on the
environment, or that ordinarily have significant impacts on the use and
enjoyment of other properties in terms of noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare, or
health or safety hazards, or that otherwise do not constitute "light
manufacturing," or any use where the area occupied by outdoor storage of goods
and materials used in the assembly, fabrication, or processing exceeds twenty-
five (25) percent of the floor area of all buildings on the lot. "Heavy
manufacturing" shall include, but not be limited to, the following: enameling,
lacquering, or the plating or galvanizing of metals; industrial chemical
manufacture; mixing plants for concrete or paving materials, and manufacture of
concrete products; pressure treating of wood; stonecutting. This shall not
include resource extraction or recycling and salvage operations.
         (2)   Manufacturing, Light
            The assembly, fabrication, or processing of goods and materials
using processes that ordinarily do not create noise, smoke, fumes, odors,
glare, or health or safety hazards outside of the building or lot where such
assembly, fabrication, or processing takes place, where such processes are
housed entirely within a building, or where the area occupied by outdoor
storage of goods and materials used in the assembly, fabrication, or processing
does not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the floor area of all buildings on
the lot. This shall not include uses that constitute "heavy manufacturing,"
resource extraction, or recycling and salvage operations.
         (3)   Prototype Process and Production Plants
            A building or operation in which processes planned for use in
production elsewhere can be tested, or in which goods are produced only in a
quantity necessary for full investigation of the merits of a product, but not
including the production of any goods on the premises primarily or customarily
for sale or for use in production operations off the premises.
         (4)   Resource Extraction
            Extraction of minerals, including solids like coal and other ores,
including but not limited to quarrying, open-pit mining, drilling, tunneling,
strip mining and any other such activities as defined in G.S. 74-49(7).
         (5)   Brewery
            A facility for the production of beer that may include a
restaurant, tasting room, or retail space on the site.
         (6)   Distillery
            A facility for the distillation of spirituous liquor (as defined in
G.S. ch. 18B) that may include a restaurant, tasting room, or retail space on
the site.
         (7)   Winery
            A facility for the production of wine that may include a
restaurant, tasting room, or retail space on the site.
      (C)   Telecommunications Facilities
         Telecommunications facilities enable Federal Communications Commission
licensed or authorized wireless communications between user equipment and a
communications network. A telecommunications facility consists of a base
station and accessory equipment, and the wireless support structure, if any,
associated with the facility. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Concealed (Stealth) Telecommunications Facility
            Any antenna or wireless support structure that is camouflaged or
concealed to look like something else (e.g., man-made trees, clock towers, bell
steeples, light poles, water towers and similar alternative design) so that the
purpose of the antenna or wireless support structure is not readily apparent to
a casual observer.
         (2)   Non-Stealth Telecommunications Facility on Existing Building or
Structure
            Any antennae or wireless support structure not defined in LDO
Section
12.3.5(C)(1) that is mounted or attached to a structure.
         (3)   Freestanding Non-Stealth Wireless Support Structure
            Any non-stealth wireless support structure that is not mounted or
attached to a building or structure.
         (4)   Collocation of Small Wireless Facility
            Any small wireless facility placed or installed on an existing
structure capable of structurally supporting the attachment of wireless
facilities in compliance with the North Carolina State Building Code or other
applicable codes as defined in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 3C.
         (5)   Utility Poles Associated with Small Wireless Facility
            Any utility pole upon which a small wireless facility is
collocated.
      (D)   Warehouse and Freight Movement
         Firms involved in the storage or movement of goods for themselves or
other firms. Goods are generally delivered to other firms or the final
consumer, except for some will-call pickups. There is little on-site sales
activity with the customer present. Accessory uses may include offices, truck
fleet parking, and maintenance areas. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Mini-Storage
            A building or group of buildings divided into separate spaces or
compartments leased to individuals, organizations, or businesses on an
individual basis for self-service storage of personal property. Also known as
self-storage.
         (2)   Outdoor Storage
            The keeping, in an unroofed area of any goods, junk, material,
merchandise, or vehicles in the same place for more than twenty-four (24)
hours. This shall not include the display of vehicles for sale in a new or used
car sales lot.
         (3)   Railroad Stations and Yards
            Heavy rail facilities for freight pick-up or distribution; may
include intermodal distribution facilities for truck or shipping transport.
         (4)   Warehousing and Distribution Establishment
            A use engaged in (1) the storage of goods, materials, vehicles,
trailers, or boats, or (2) the distribution of goods and materials to another
location for the purposes of resale or use at the place distributed to. At
least fifty (50) percent of the gross floor area of the use shall be used for
warehouse and distribution purposes. This shall include offices located on the
same property in conjunction with such uses. This shall not include heavy
manufacturing, resource extraction, scrap operations, or salvage operations.
         (5)   Wholesale Establishment
            An establishment primarily engaged in the sale or distribution of
goods and materials in large quantity to retailers or other businesses for
resale to individual or business customers. This shall not include heavy
manufacturing, resource extraction, scrap operations, or salvage operations.
      (E)   Waste-Related Uses
         This category includes uses that receive solid or liquid wastes from
others for disposal on the site or for transfer to another location, uses that
collect sanitary wastes, or uses that manufacture or produce goods or energy
from the composting of organic material or processing of scrap or waste
material. Waste-Related uses also include uses that receive hazardous wastes
from others. Accessory uses may include recycling of materials, offices, and
repackaging and shipment of by-products. Specific use types include:
         (1)   Recycling and Salvage Operation
            A facility, other than a recycling drop-off station, for the
collection, handling, sorting, storage, processing, compaction, purchase, and/
or resale of scrap or discarded material like paper, metal, rubber, plastic,
glass, or cloth. The term includes facilities for separating trash and debris
from recoverable materials such as paper products, glass, and metal cans which
can be returned to a condition in which they may again be used for production.
         (2)   Recycling Drop-Off Station
            A center or collection point with containers or facilities designed
and intended for the depositing of clean, separated, and recyclable paper,
cardboard, metal, glass, or plastic materials and the collection of such
materials for processing at another location, but itself having no mechanical
facilities for the processing of such materials.
         (3)   Junkyard
            Any establishment or land used, in whole or in part, for commercial
or industrial storage, dismantling, and/or sale of waste paper, rags, scrap
metal, motor vehicles, machinery, tires, or other junk outside of an enclosed
building. This shall not include a landfill, solid waste transfer facility,
other public utility facility, or a recycling and salvage operation.
         (4)   Landfill
            A facility for the disposal of solid waste in a sanitary manner in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 130A Article 9. For the purpose of this Ordinance,
this term does not include composting facilities.
(Ord. No. 04-001, 1-8-04; Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05;
Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-01,
1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-02, 1-28-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-03, 2-25-10; Ord. No.
2010-LDO-05, 12-16-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-05, 12-
15-11; Ord. No. 12-LDO-01, 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-04, 5-24-12; Ord. No.
2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, passed 6-13-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-
04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-01, 1-9-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord.
No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-01, 10-26-17; Ord. No. 2017-ACT-02,
12-14-17; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No.
2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2025-CODE-01, 4-10-25)
12.4   OTHER KEY TERMS DEFINED
   When used in this Ordinance, the following words and terms shall have the
meaning set forth in this section, unless other provisions of this Ordinance
specifically indicate otherwise.
ACCELERATED EROSION
   Any increase over the rate of natural erosion resulting from land-disturbing
activities.
ACCESSORY USE
   A use that is on the same lot as, and of a nature customarily incidental and
subordinate to the principal use, structure, or building on the property.
ACTIVE CONSTRUCTION
   On-site activities such as installation, erection, fabrication, alteration,
demolition or removal of structures, facilities, or additions that contribute
directly to the completion of improvements contemplated or shown on
construction plans.
ADDITION (to an existing building)
   An extension or increase in the floor area or height of a building or
structure.
ADJACENT
   Lying near or close to; sometimes, contiguous; neighboring. Adjacent implies
that the two (2) objects are not widely separated, though they may not actually
touch.
ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION
   Decisions made in the implementation, administration, or enforcement of
development regulations that involve the determination of facts and the
application of objective standards set forth in this Ordinance. These are
sometimes referred to as ministerial decisions or administrative
determinations.
AESTHETIC NUISANCE
   A junked motor vehicle on private or public property that has been
determined to be so offensive to the sight as to damage the community,
neighborhood or area appearance. Aesthetic benefits must outweigh the burdens
imposed on the private property owner. Other factors include the protection of
property values, promotion of tourism, indirect protection of health and
safety, community preservation, or promotion of the comfort, happiness and
stability of area residents.
AFFORESTATION
   The conversion of land lacking trees into forest land.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
   Products obtained primarily through farming or agricultural activities,
including, but not necessarily limited to: pumpkins; grains and seed crops;
fruits of all kinds; vegetables; nursery, floral, ornamental, and greenhouse
products; trees and forest products, including Christmas trees, firewood, and
pinestraw; bees and beekeeping products; seafood; and dairy products. For the
purposes of this section, processed or prepared food products of any kind shall
not be considered as agricultural products.
AGRI-TOURISM
   The act of visiting a working farm or any agricultural, horticultural or
agri-business operation for the purpose of enjoyment, education or active
involvement in the activities of the farm or operation.
ALLEYS
   Provide utility and vehicular access to developments as an alternative to
local streets. They are narrower than local streets, provide access to the rear
of a property, and are generally associated with residential areas.
ALTERATION OF A WATERCOURSE
   A dam, impoundment, channel relocation, change in channel alignment,
channelization, or change in cross-sectional area of the channel or the channel
capacity, or any other form of modification which may alter, impede, retard or
change the direction and/or velocity of the riverine flow of water during
conditions of the base flood.
ANTENNA
   Any structure or device used to collect, receive, transmit, or radiate radio
or electromagnetic waves, including but not limited to both directional
antennas (such as panels, microwave dishes, satellite earth station antennas
over two (2) meters in diameter) and omni-directional antennas (such as whips).
APARTMENT
   One (1) or more rooms with a private bath and kitchen facilities comprising
an independent dwelling unit which is not located upon its own piece of
property.
APPROVED ACCOUNTING TOOL
   The most recent version of the accounting tool for calculating nutrient
loading and reduction approved by the North Carolina Division of Energy,
Mineral, and Land Resources for the relevant geography and development type
under review.
ARCADE
   A walkway or passageway adjacent to a building that is covered by a roof but
open to the outside air.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING
   An "AO" or “AH” zone designated on a Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) issued
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) with base flood depths from
one (1) to three (3) feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where
the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity
flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD
   The land in the floodplain subject to a one (1) percent or greater chance of
flooding in any given year. See “Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)”
ARTIFICIAL OBSTRUCTION
   Any obstruction to the flow of water in a stream that is not a natural
obstruction, including any that, while not a significant obstruction in itself,
is capable of accumulating debris and thereby reducing the flood-carrying
capacity of the stream.
ASSISTED LIVING
   A living arrangement where the elderly or other persons are provided
assistance with daily activities such as dressing, grooming, and bathing.
ATTENTION-ATTRACTING DEVICE
   Any device or object visible from any public right-of-way that is primarily
designed to attract the attention of the public to a business, institution,
sign or activity through such means, including but not limited to illumination,
color, size, or location. Attention-attracting devices or objects oftentimes
incorporate illumination, which may be stationary, moving, turning, blinking
(including animation), flashing or laser. Attention-attracting devices may or
may not convey a message and can include, but are not limited to, search
lights, beacons, strobe lights, strings of lights, barber poles, internally
illuminated translucent canopies or panels, electronically controlled message
boards (time/temperature signs, gas price signs, public service announcements,
etc.) banners, streamers, pennants, propellers and inflatable objects
(including strings of balloons) or other device designed to attract attention.
Any sign, which emits a sound, odor, or visible matter, is considered an
attention-attracting device. Approved traffic-control devices are not
considered to be attention-attracting devices.
AWNING
   Any non-rigid material, such as fabric or flexible plastic, which extends
from the exterior wall of a building and is supported by or attached to a
frame.
BANNER
   Any sign, except an awning sign, applied to or made of cloth, paper, fabric,
flexible plastic or other fabric-like material that only uses such non-rigid
material for backing or background.
BASE FLOOD
   The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year based on current conditions hydrology. Also known as the "100-
year flood."
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE)
   A determination of the water surface elevations of the base flood based on
current conditions hydrology as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When
the BFE has not been provided in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other
source using FEMA approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the Freeboard, establishes the Regulatory Flood Protection
Elevation in Special Flood Hazard Areas.
BASEMENT
   Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on
all sides.
BEDROOM
   A room designated as a sleeping or bedroom on the plan and permit
application.
BERM
   Any elongated earthen mound designed or constructed on a site to separate,
screen or buffer adjacent land uses.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP)
   Schedules of activities, prohibitions of practices, general good house
keeping practices, pollution prevention and educational practices, maintenance
procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge
of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm water, receiving waters, or storm
water conveyance systems. BMPs also include treatment practices, operating
procedures, and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or
water disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
BILLBOARD
   Any outdoor advertising sign erected and maintained by an advertising
business or service, upon which advertising matter may be displayed and that
generally advertises firms and organizations that, along with their goods and
services, are not located on the same premises as the sign; and whose surface
is sold, rented or leased for display of advertising material.
BONA FIDE FARM
   A parcel of land used for agricultural activities as set forth in G.S. 160D-
903.
BORROW MATERIAL
   Fill material required for on-site construction that is obtained from other
locations.
BREAKAWAY WALL
   Any type of wall, whether solid or lattice, and whether constructed of
concrete, masonry, wood, metal, plastic, or any other suitable building
material, which is not part of the structural support of a building and which
is designed to break away during floods without damage to the structural
integrity of the building on which it is used or any buildings to which they
might be carried by flood waters.
BUFFER, PERIMETER
   A unit of land and any plants and structures (i.e., walls, fences ) thereon
which is used to separate land uses from each other as required by this
Ordinance, including but not limited to the Type A Opaque, Type B Semi-Opaque,
and Type C Aesthetic described in Section
7.2.3. These buffers are typically undisturbed buffers; however, they may be
supplemented to meet the performance objectives of each buffer type.
BUFFER, INTERIOR
   Buffers required within the interior of the overall development (for
example, buffers along property lines of an outparcel interior to a shopping
center).
BUFFER, STREAM
   The area of natural or planted vegetation through which stormwater runoff
flows in a diffuse manner so that the runoff does not become channelized and
which provides for infiltration of the runoff and filtering of pollutants (see
Section
7.3). The buffer is measured landward from the normal pool elevation of
impounded structures and from the bank of each side of streams, rivers, or
lakes.
BUFFER, UNDISTURBED
   A unit of land containing existing healthy vegetation that shall be left in
its natural state excluding noxious weeds and plants. Such buffer shall not be
graded, nor shall any development occur within such buffer unless otherwise
allowed in this Ordinance.
BUILDING
   Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use or
occupancy.
BUILDING, ACCESSORY
   A building or structure that is on the same lot as, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, another building or structure, and
the use of which is clearly incidental and subordinate to that of the other
building or structure.
BUILDING, EXISTING
   For purposes of Sections
3.12 and
14.7 only, any building for which the “start of construction” commenced before
May 10, 2001, the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by Cary.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL
   A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot on which it is
situated. A multi-occupant property may have more than one principal building,
but only structures regularly used for human occupancy may be considered
principal buildings. Not an accessory building.
BUILDING FOOTPRINT
   The outline of the total area of a lot or site that is surrounded by the
exterior walls of a building or portion of a building, exclusive of courtyards.
In the absence of surrounding exterior walls, the building footprint shall be
the area under the horizontal projection of the roof.
BUILDING PERMIT
   An official document issued by Cary pursuant to this Ordinance and the State
building code authorizing the erection, construction, reconstruction,
restoration, alteration, enlargement, conversion, remodeling, demolition,
moving, or repair of a building or structure.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE
   A line establishing the minimum allowable distance between the nearest
portion of any building and a property line, measured perpendicularly between
the building and the property line.
BUILDING WALL
   An exterior load-bearing or non-load-bearing vertical structure, which
encompasses the area between the final grade elevation and the eaves of the
building, and used to enclose the space within the building. A porch, balcony,
or stoop is part of the building structure and may be considered as a building
wall.
BUILT-UPON AREA
   See “Impervious Surface Area”.
CALIPER
   A horticultural method of measuring the diameter of a tree trunk for the
purpose of size grading. The caliper of the trunk is measured six (6) inches
above the ground for trees up to and including four (4) inches in diameter,
twelve (12) inches above the ground for trees greater than four (4) inches up
to twelve (12) inches in diameter, and at breast height (four and one-half
(4.5) feet) for trees greater than twelve (12) inches in diameter. The
following measurements of caliper may be used when appropriate: vertically
growing tree on a slope - measure diameter four and one-half (4.5) feet from
the ground on the upper side of the slope; tree leans - measure four and one-
half (4.5) feet up the stem in the direction of the lean; tree forks below DBH
- measure at the narrowest part of the main stem below the fork (if the
circumference measurement below the lowest fork places the measurement on the
ground, the trees shall be considered separately).
CANOPY
   A roof structure constructed of rigid materials, including but not limited
to, metal, wood, concrete, plastic, canvas or glass, which is attached to and
supported by a building, or which is freestanding and supported by columns,
poles, or braces extended to the ground. Unlike a marquee, a canopy generally
has very limited vertical surface area; and unlike an awning, a canopy is
generally supported by vertical elements rising from the ground at two (2) or
more corners.
CERTIFICATE OF EROSION CONTROL COMPLIANCE
   A certificate issued by the Stormwater Manager following inspection of
sedimentation and erosion control measures installed at a construction site
following issuance of a grading permit.
CHAMPION TREE
   Any single tree other than a sweet gum that measures: (a) forty (40) caliper
inches or greater for pines; (b) thirty-two (32) caliper inches or greater for
all upper story trees other than pines; or twelve (12) caliper inches or
greater for dogwood, horticultural cherry, redbud, silverbell, and
serviceberry. A tree that meets the indicated size above but is dead or dying
from a disease, or has an abnormal form that is not characteristic of its
species (for example the habit is one-sided, or the crown is significantly
misshapen or missing) as determined by a certified arborist, shall not be
considered to be a Champion Tree.
CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY
   A building, portion of a building, or exterior area adjacent to a building
used for the storage of any chemical or chemically reactive products.
CHICKEN COOP
   An enclosed structure for housing or sheltering chickens which contains
nesting boxes for the chickens to sit in while laying their eggs as well as
perches for the chickens to use while sleeping. Sometimes called a "henhouse."
CHICKEN PEN
   An open-air, outdoor area connected to or surrounding the coop which is
surrounded with wire or mesh screening to cage and protect chickens from
predators as they range outside the coop.
CHICKEN TRACTOR
   A small, movable chicken coop used to allow chickens to forage on fresh
grass daily.
CLEAN WATER ACT
   The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.), and any
subsequent amendments thereto.
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT
   A development technique that concentrates or groups buildings in specific
areas on a development site to conserve land resources and provide for
innovation in the design of the project.
COMMERCIAL MESSAGE
   Any sign, wording, logo or other representation that, directly or
indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business, product,
service or other commercial activity.
COMMISSARY
   A permitted food establishment where a food truck returns daily for such
things as discharging liquid or solid wastes, refilling water tanks and ice
bins, and loading of food ingredients or prepared food.
COMPATIBLE
   A term used to describe how the visual aspects of a structure (including
signage) are similar to or consistent with the other structures on the same
parcel, site, or in the immediate vicinity. Visual aspects include, but are not
limited to: olor, texture, materials, scale, size, form and aspect.
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN
   The official plan, as adopted by the Town of Cary, which identifies major
road, pedestrian, bicycle, and transit improvements necessary to serve
projected growth. The Town’s Comprehensive Transportation Plan consists of
Chapter 7, “Move,” and its associated appendices from the Cary Community Plan,
together with the 2012 Greenways Master Plan Map and
Chapter 6, “Greenways & Trails,” from the 2012 Parks, Recreation and Cultural
Resources Master Plan and any associated appendices and updates.
CONDOMINIUM
   A development containing individually owned dwelling units and jointly owned
and shared areas and facilities that is subject to the North Carolina Unit
Ownership Act (G.S. Ch. 47A) and/or the North Carolina Condominium Act (G.S.
Ch. 47C).
CONSERVATION EASEMENT
   The voluntary granting of a right or interest in real property by a
property's owner which stipulates that the described land will remain in its
natural state, and which precludes any future or additional development on a
parcel or portion of a parcel.
CONSTRUCTION
   Any act or process that requires a building permit for on-site fabrication,
building, reconstruction, erection, extension, betterment, or improvement of
land providing a building or structure or any part thereof, which provides,
adds to, repairs, or increases the floor area of a residential or non-
residential use.
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY (for purposes of NPDES PhII Permit)
   Activities subject to NPDES Construction Permits. These include construction
projects resulting in land disturbance of one (1) acre or more. Such activities
include but are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and
demolition.
CONSTRUCTION DRAWINGS
   A set of drawings that depict design and implementation of improvements
required for development plans under this Ordinance.
CONTIGUOUS
   Next to, abutting directly, adjoining, or touching and having a common
boundary or portion on the boundary of, or separated by a street, railroad,
public utility right-of-way, or body of water.
CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY
   A roadway which, in accordance with State and Federal guidelines, is
designed to give preference to through traffic by providing access connections
at interchanges or selected public roads only, with no direct access from
private roads or driveways and with no crossings at grade, including any
interstate, State, U.S. Route.
COPING
   The finished edge of a roof.
COSMETIC AMENDMENT TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
   A cosmetic amendment to the Comprehensive Plan is an amendment that affects
the appearance, style, wording, or presentation of the Plan, but that does not
alter its meaning, interpretation, or recommendations. Examples of cosmetic
amendments include, but are not limited to: revising map or document style,
format, or layout to enhance clarity; revising map or text content to
accurately reflect additions to Town facilities or revisions to adjoining
jurisdictions' adopted plans; adding explanatory text or labels; and correcting
spelling or grammar. All other amendments to the Comprehensive Plan shall be
considered substantive.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE
   An underground circular area extending from the base of a tree's trunk a
distance of at least one and one-quarter (1.25) feet from the tree for each
inch of caliper.
CUL-DE-SAC
   A local street in which accessibility is limited to only one (1) means of
ingress and egress and with a vehicular turnaround at the end.
CURRENT CONDITIONS HYDROLOGY
   The flood discharges associated with the land-use conditions existing within
the drainage area of a watercourse at the time a flood study of the watercourse
was conducted. Current conditions flood discharges and historical flood study
information are published in the Flood Insurance Study.
DEAD END STREET
   A street in which accessibility is limited to only one (1) means of ingress
and egress.
DECK
   A structure without a roof, either freestanding or attached to a building,
which is supported by posts or pillars.
DENSITY, GROSS
   The total number of dwelling units theoretically allowed on a particular
parcel based upon its size and zoning designation while not taking into account
the portions of unbuildable land.
DENSITY, NET
   The total number of dwelling units on a particular tract or parcel of land,
not taking into account portions of the tract or parcel which contain rights-
of-way for collector or larger streets, Flood Hazard Area, lakes, other water
bodies, or wetlands falling under the regulatory jurisdiction of the U.S. Army
Corps of Engineers.
DESIGN FLOOD
   See “Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.”
DETACHED
   Not physically connected to another building or structure.
DETENTION
   The temporary, on-site restraining of stormwater.
DETENTION FACILITY
   A natural or artificial facility that provides temporary storage of excess
stormwater runoff for the purpose of releasing it at a controlled rate. A
detention facility normally drains completely between storm events. May also be
known as a detention basin.
DETERMINATION
   A written, final, and binding order, requirement, or determination regarding
an administrative decision.
DEVELOPER
   A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment authority, who
undertakes any development and who is the landowner of the property to be
developed or who has been authorized by the landowner to undertake development
on that property.
DEVELOPMENT
   Any of the following:
      a.   The construction, erection, alteration, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of any structure.
      b.   The excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land.
      c.   The subdivision of land as defined in G.S. 160D-802.
      d.   The initiation or substantial change in the use of land or the
intensity of use of land. This definition does not alter the scope of
regulatory authority granted by G.S. Chapter 160D.
DEVELOPMENT, EXISTING
   For the purposes of Sections
4.4.6 and
7.3 only, existing development includes those projects meeting at least one (1)
of the following criteria:
   •   Development having a common law vested right, which is a substantial
expenditure of resources (e.g., time, labor, money) based on a good faith
reliance upon having received a valid local government approval to proceed with
the project;
   •   Having a current building permit issued by the Town;
   •   Having an approved development plan issued by the Town as authorized by
the G.S. 160D-108; 108.1; or
   •   In Watershed Protection Overlay district only, conforming single-unit
lots of record that received final plat approval before July 1, 1993.
   •   Development in the Neuse River Basin prior to March 1, 2001.
DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY
   For purposes of Sections
3.12 and
14.7 only, any activity defined as Development which will necessitate a
Floodplain Development Permit. This includes buildings, structures, and non-
structural items, including (but not limited to) fill, bulkheads, piers, pools,
docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/stabilization measures.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
   A contract or legally-binding arrangement between one (1) or more private
entities and the Town which specifies the rights and obligations of all parties
with respect to a single development, project, or proposal.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL
   An administrative or quasi-judicial approval made pursuant to G.S. 160D that
is written and that is required prior to commencing development or undertaking
a specific activity, project, or development proposal. Development approvals
include, but are not limited to, zoning permits, development plan approvals,
special use permits, variances, and certificates of appropriateness. The term
also includes all other regulatory approvals required by regulations adopted
pursuant to G.S. 160D, including plat approvals, permits issued, development
agreements entered into, and building permits issued.
DEVELOPMENT PLAN
   A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship between lot
lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures on the lot.
The development plan may include site-specific details such as building areas,
building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street rights-of-
way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations, parking, access
points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are depicted to show
compliance with all legally required development regulations that are
applicable to the project and the development plan review. “Development Plan”
is synonymous with “site plan” as defined in G.S. 160D-102. Unless the context
clearly indicates otherwise, any reference to a “site plan” or “subdivision
plan” in this Ordinance is a reference to a development plan.
DEVELOPMENT REGULATION
   A unified development ordinance, zoning regulation, subdivision regulation,
erosion and sedimentation control regulation, floodplain or flood damage
prevention regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless
telecommunication facility regulation, historic preservation or landmark
regulation, housing code, State Building Code enforcement, or any other Town
regulation, act or charter that regulates land use or development.
DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH)
   The measurement of the diameter of a tree trunk taken at a height of four
and one-half (4.5) feet above the ground.
DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM)
   The digital official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA), on which both the Special Flood Hazard Areas and the
risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
DIRECTOR OF PARKS, RECREATION, AND CULTURAL RESOURCES
   The Director of the Town of Cary Department of Parks, Recreation, and
Cultural Resources.
DISPOSAL
   As defined in G.S. 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit, injection,
dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on any land
or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid waste may
enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into any waters,
including groundwaters.
DRIVE AISLE
   An area in a parking lot in between parking spaces so that vehicles can
drive into and out of the spaces.
DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY
   A business or facility which is designed or intended to enable a customer to
transact business without exiting a motor vehicle parked on or moving through
the premises.
DWELLING
   Any building, structure, manufactured home, or mobile home, or part thereof,
used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and includes
any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
DWELLING UNIT
   A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities for one or
more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating,
cooking and sanitation.
EASEMENT
   A grant by a property owner to the public, a corporation, or other person or
persons of the right to use an identifiable piece of land for specified
purposes, such as for access or utilities.
ELECTRONIC GAMING MACHINE
   An electronic machine, including but not limited to computers and gaming
terminals, used to conduct games of chance or sweepstakes in which cash,
merchandise or anything else of value is redeemed or otherwise distributed or
placed on an account or other record, whether or not the value of such
distribution is determined by electronic games played or by predetermined odds.
ELEVATED BUILDING
   A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated floor raised above
ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or
columns.
ENCROACHMENT
   The projection or intrusion of a building, structure, or other land-
disturbing activity into an area where such projections are typically
prohibited.
ENCROACHMENT (for the purposes of floodplain management)
   The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation, buildings, structures
or development into a floodplain, which may impede or alter the flow capacity
of a floodplain.
ENERGY DISSIPATOR
   A structure or a shaped channel section with mechanical armoring placed at
the outlet of pipes or conduits to receive and break down the energy from high
velocity flow of water.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL
   A person charged by the Town Manager or Manager's designee with enforcement
of the provisions of this Ordinance. May also be referred to as a Zoning
Compliance Officer.
ENGINEER
   A professional engineer registered by the State of North Carolina.
ENGINEERED STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURE
   A physical device designed to trap, settle out, filter, or otherwise remove
pollutants from stormwater runoff; to alter or reduce stormwater runoff
velocity, amount, timing, or other characteristics; to approximate the pre-
development hydrology on a developed site; or to achieve any combination of
these goals. Engineered stormwater control measures include physical practices
such as constructed wetlands, vegetative practices, vegetated conveyances,
filter strips, grassed swales, and other methods installed or created on real
property. “Engineered stormwater control measure” is synonymous with
“structural practice,” “Primary SCM”, “stormwater control facility,”
“stormwater control practice,” “stormwater treatment practice,” “stormwater
management practice,” “stormwater control measure,” “structural stormwater
treatment system,” and similar terms used in this ordinance. It is a broad term
that may include practices that do not require design by a professionally
licensed engineer.
EROSION
   The wearing away of land surface by the action of wind, water, gravity, or
any combination thereof.
EROSION CONTROL MEASURE, STRUCTURE, OR DEVICE
   A measure, structure, or device that controls the soil material within the
land area under responsible control of the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity.
EVIDENTIARY HEARING
   A hearing to gather competent, material, and substantial evidence in order
to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision required by a development
regulation adopted under this Ordinance.
EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION
   The area adjacent to and beyond the municipal limits of the Town over which
Cary has been granted an exercise of municipal governmental powers, including
but not limited to the power to regulate development, in accordance with G.S.
160A-360.
FARM MARKET
   An area that is used by one (1) or more operators of bona fide farms for the
sale of agricultural products not grown on the same premises as the market.
FENCE
   A structure used to delineate a boundary or act as a barrier or means of
protection, confinement, or screening.
FENESTRATION
   Architectural treatment over, around, or near a window, door, or other
feature of relief on the elevation of a building.
FLAG
   Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns or symbols,
used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, corporation, lodge,
fraternity or sorority, political party, nonprofit organization, charity, club,
association or other entity.
FLAG LOT
   An irregularly shaped lot in which the buildable section is connected with
an arm that fronts a street and the width of the arm does not meet the minimum
lot width standards in the zoning district in which it is located.
FLOOD OR FLOODING
   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland waters or the unusual and
rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM)
   An official map of a community, issued by the FEMA, on which the Special
Flood Hazard Areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM).
FLOOD FRINGE
   That part of an area of special flood hazard that is not located in the
floodway.
FLOOD HAZARD AREA
   The flood hazard area is comprised of the special flood hazard area and the
future conditions flood hazard area.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM)
   An official map of a community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA), where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have
been designated as zone "A."
FLOOD INSURANCE
   The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood Insurance Program.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM)
   The most recent officially adopted map of a community, issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood hazard areas, the
future conditions flood hazard areas, and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated. (see also DFIRM)
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY
   The most recent officially adopted report, provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, which contains an examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community. The Flood
Insurance Study report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood
Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
FLOODPLAIN
   Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any source.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR
   The individual appointed to administer and enforce the floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
   Any type of permit that is required in conformance with the provisions of
the floodplain management regulations of this ordinance, prior to the
commencement of any development activity.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
   The operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive measures
for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing, where possible, natural
resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited to, emergency
preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management regulations, and
open space plans.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS
   This ordinance and other zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances, and other
applications of police power which control development in flood-prone areas.
This term describes federal, state or local regulations, in any combination
thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and
damage.
FLOODPLAIN, ONE PERCENT (1%) ANNUAL CHANCE OR BASE FLOODPLAIN
   The special flood hazard area.
FLOODPROOFING
   Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions, changes, or
adjustments to structures, which reduce or eliminate flood damage to real
estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities, structures,
and their contents.
FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL
   Any building product [material, component, or system] capable of
withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters
without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any
material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water,
including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not flood-resistant.
Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are flood
resistant flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not flood-resistant. Materials that absorb or retain water
excessively after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to
Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and
available from the FEMA. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are
acceptable flood-resistant materials.
FLOODWAY
   The channel of a river, stream, or other watercourse including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation by more than one (1) foot.
FLOODWAY ENCROACHMENT ANALYSIS
   An engineering analysis of the impact that a proposed encroachment into a
floodway or non-encroachment area is expected to have on the floodway
boundaries and flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
The evaluation shall be prepared by a qualified North Carolina licensed
engineer using standard engineering methods and models.
FLOOD ZONE
   A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map, Flood Insurance
Rate Map, or Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or
type of flooding in the area.
FLOOR AREA
   The gross total horizontal area of all floors including:
      (a)   usable basements and cellars;
      (b)   the portion of attics accessible by fixed stairs where the distance
between floor and ceiling is at least five (5) feet; and
      (c)   below the roof and within the outer surface of the main walls of
principal or accessory buildings, or the centerlines of a party wall separating
such buildings or portions thereof, or within lines drawn parallel to and two
(2) feet within the roofline of any building or portions thereof without walls.
   In the case of non-residential facilities, floor area calculations shall not
include arcades, porticos, and similar areas open to the outside air which are
accessible to the general public and which are not designed or used as areas
for sales, display, storage, service, or production.
FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR)
   The ratio of the gross floor area on a lot to the area of such lot.
FOOD TRUCK
   A specialized unit mounted on, or pulled by, a self-propelled vehicle where
food or beverage, including prepackaged food, is prepared, cooked, served, or
dispensed, for individual portion service. Such vehicle is self-contained with
its own drinking water tank and waste water tank; is designed to be readily
movable; is located on an allowed site for more than thirty (30) minutes; and
is moved daily to return to its commissary. May also be referred to as a
"mobile food vending unit." This definition shall include a mobile farmers
market for the sale of locally grown fresh produce which is in its original
form and not altered or processed. This definition shall not include mobile
canteen, coffee, or ice cream trucks that move from place to place and remain
stationary in the same location for no more than thirty (30) minutes at a time,
or food vending push carts that are allowed at the front of retail
establishments in accordance with Section
5.4.6(C).
FOOT-CANDLES
   The amount of light that falls onto a surface.
FOOT-CANDLES, AVERAGE
   The average of a number of points of foot-candle calculations or foot-candle
readings in a given area.
FOOT-CANDLES, INITIAL
   Foot-candles that are calculated with no adjustment for dirt build-up in the
fixture of lamp lumen depreciation. Initial foot-candles should be measured
when a lighting system is new and after 100 hours of lamp burn-in time.
FOOT-CANDLES, MAINTAINED
   Foot-candles that are calculated with an adjustment for a maintenance factor
to include dirt build-up in the luminaire (fixture) and lamp lumen
depreciation. The system is in effect over designed initially and then over
time allowed to reach a maintained foot-candle level.
FOR GOOD CAUSE SHOWN
   For the purposes of considering a request for an extension of time to
perform a certain action or requirement, the phrase "for good cause shown"
shall generally refer to situations or circumstances in which the time to
perform the act has not expired and in which the entity seeking the extension
does not have direct and/or complete control of a related aspect of the project
that is essential, and contributes, to performance of the particular action or
requirement that is the subject of such request. Examples of such situations
shall include, but are not limited to:
   •   Appeal of an approval, permit or other similar decisions brought about
by an entity other than the applicant and filed in accordance with all
applicable procedures and requirements; and
   •   Inaction or delay by another governmental agency or approval authority
with respect to the review/approval of a related or component aspect of the
project.
   For the purposes of considering a request to waive the minimum required
waiting period for submitting subsequent application for a property following
certain actions (as further described in this Ordinance) on the initial
request, the phrase "for good cause shown" shall generally refer to situations
or circumstances in which there has been substantial/significant change to one
or more aspects of the project at the time of initial application or request.
FOREST OR FOREST STAND
   Areas or stands of trees, the majority of which are greater than ten (10)
inches caliper, covering an area greater than one-quarter (0.25) acre; or
groves of mature trees without regard to minimum area consisting of substantial
numbers of individual specimens (Substantial numbers represents more of a
visual impression as opposed to a specific number).
FOUNDATION PLANTINGS
   Vegetative material typically consisting of shrubs and/or ground cover which
is planted proximate to the exterior wall or walls of a structure.
FREEBOARD
   The height added to the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) or the Future Conditions
Flood Elevation to account for the many unknown factors that could contribute
to flood heights greater that the height calculated for a selected size flood
and floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the
hydrological effect of urbanization on the watershed. The Base Flood Elevation
plus the freeboard establishes the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.
FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD
   The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year based on future conditions hydrology.
FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD ELEVATION
   A determination of the water surface elevations of the one percent (1%)
annual chance flood based on future conditions hydrology as published in the
Flood Insurance Study. This elevation, when combined with the freeboard,
establishes the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation in Future Conditions
Flood Hazard Areas.
FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD AREA
   The land area that would be inundated by the one percent (1%) annual chance
flood based on future conditions hydrology.
FUTURE CONDITIONS HYDROLOGY
   The flood discharges associated with projected land-use conditions based on
Cary’s comprehensive land-use plans and without consideration of projected
future construction of flood detention structures or projected future hydraulic
modifications within a stream or other waterway such as bridge and culvert
construction, fill, and excavation. Future conditions flood discharges are
published in the Flood Insurance Study.
GLARE
   The reflection or harsh, bright light and the physical effect resulting from
high luminances or insufficiently shielded light sources to cause annoyance,
discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
GREENWAY
   A linear open space, either privately-owned or owned by the Town or another
unit of government, which contains trails for activities such as walking,
bicycling, or horseback riding, or provides areas for passive recreation, but
not for use by vehicles for purposes other than maintenance.
GREENWAY EASEMENT
   A permanent easement dedicated to the Town for the purpose of providing
public greenway access at a greenway access location. The greenway easement
provides public access to the greenway access location; and allows
construction, installation, operation, and maintenance of greenway amenities by
the Town.
GROUND COVER
   Any natural vegetative growth or other material that renders the soil
surface stable against accelerated erosion.
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL
   Any substance that, because of its quantity, concentration, or physical or
chemical characteristics, poses a significant present or potential hazard to
human health and safety or the environment. Such materials are listed SARA
Section 302, Extremely Hazardous Substances, CERCLA Hazardous Substances, or
Section 311 of CWA (oil and hazardous substances).
HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY
   As defined in NCGS Article 9 of Chapter 130A, a facility for the collection,
storage, processing, treatment, recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous
waste.
HEALTH CARE OFFICE
   Offices and laboratory facilities for the use of physicians, health care
providers, and other support personnel. Such use typically involves the
dispensing of medical or health-related advice and prescriptions and
performance of minor medical procedures.
HIGH DENSITY DEVELOPMENT
   For purposes of the Watershed Protection Overlay district, development that
contains an amount of impervious surface area that requires engineered
stormwater control measures.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG)
   The highest natural elevation of the ground surface, prior to construction,
immediately next to the proposed walls of the structure.
HISTORIC BUILDING OR STRUCTURE
   Any building or structure that is: (a) listed individually in the National
Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the US Department of
Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting
the requirements for individual listing on the National Register; (b) certified
or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior as contributing to the
historical significance of a registered historic district or a district
preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic
district; (c) individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program”; or (d) certified
as contributing to the historical significance of a historic district
designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program”.
Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US Department of
the Interior in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in
1980. For purposes related to Session Law 2007-66, historic building or
structure also includes those individually listed on the North Carolina
inventory of historic places or individually listed on a Wake County, Cary or
other local inventory of historic places in communities with historic
preservation programs that have been certified by an approved state program as
determined by the Secretary of Interior.
HOLIDAY DECORATIONS
   Displays erected on a seasonal basis in observance of religious, national,
or state holidays which are not intended to be permanent in nature and which
contain no advertising material.
HOME OCCUPATION
   An occupation or profession that involves the rendering of a service in
exchange for monetary fees or other remuneration or administrative support for
a business where services are rendered off-site, is conducted wholly within a
dwelling unit, does not change the character of the dwelling unit, and is
limited in extent and clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling unit for residential purposes. Home occupation businesses do not
exchange goods or products on site though services may be delivered on site.
ILLEGAL DISCHARGE
   Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the storm drain system.
ILLICIT CONNECTION
   An illicit connection is defined as either of the following:
      (a)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface that
allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including but not
limited to any conveyances that allow any non-storm water discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain system and
any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and sinks,
regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously allowed,
permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency or,
      (b)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system that has not been documented in plans, maps,
or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA
   Any hard-surfaced, man-made area that allows little or no infiltration of
precipitation into the soil. Impervious surface areas include that portion of a
development project that is covered by buildings; areas paved with concrete,
asphalt or brick; gravel road; recreation facilities such as tennis courts;
patios, driveways, and streets. "Impervious surface area" does not include
slatted decks; the water surface area of a swimming pool; a surface of number
57 stone, as designated by the American Society for Testing and Materials, laid
at least four inches thick over a geotextile fabric; a trail as defined in G.S.
113A-85 that is either unpaved or paved as long as the pavement is porous with
a hydraulic conductivity greater than 0.001 centimeters per second (1.41 inches
per hour); or landscaping material, including, but not limited to, gravel,
mulch, sand, and vegetation, placed on areas that receive pedestrian or bicycle
traffic or on portions of driveways and parking areas that will not be
compacted by the weight of a vehicle, such as the area between sections of
pavement that support the weight of a vehicle.
IMPROVEMENT
   Any building, structure, bridge, work of art, area, parking facility, public
facility, fence, gate, wall, landscaping, or other object, or any part thereof,
constituting physical addition to real property.
INACTIVE APPLICATION
   Any application for an entitlement, procedure, or approval outlined in
Chapter 3 of this Ordinance which has not been withdrawn, approved, or tabled;
and which has not maintained the associated review schedule and/or which lacks
any written correspondence between the applicant and the Town for a period of
ninety (90) days or more.
INDEPENDENT LIVING UNIT
   A dwelling unit that is part of a life care community that includes complete
facilities for independent living, including cooking and sanitary facilities.
The occupants are presumed to be able to function independently of the support
facilities of the life care community.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
   For the purposes of stormwater management, any non-residential development
that requires an NPDES permit for an industrial discharge and/or requires the
use or storage of any hazardous material for the purpose of manufacturing,
assembling, finishing, cleaning or developing any product or commodity.
INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE
   The discharge of industrial process treated wastewater or wastewater other
than sewage and includes:
   Wastewater resulting from any process of industry or manufacture, or from
development of any natural resource;
   Wastewater resulting from processes of trade or business, including
wastewater from laundromats and car washes, but not wastewater from
restaurants;
   Stormwater will not be considered to be industrial wastewater unless it is
contaminated with industrial wastewater; or
   Wastewater discharged from a municipal wastewater treatment plant requiring
a pre-treatment program.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE
   Any motorized vehicle incapable of immediately being driven and not properly
licensed or inspected for safety in accordance with state law.
INSTITUTIONAL USE
   For the purpose of determining allowable signage, a school, religious
institution, or other use operated by a public agency or non-profit
organization and permitted as a use in one (1) or more residential zoning
districts in the Town. A day-care facility shall be considered an institution
regardless of ownership or operation.
INTERSTATE HIGHWAY
   A controlled-access highway that is part of the federal interstate highway
system.
JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE
   A motor vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon
the vehicle and: is partially dismantled or wrecked; or cannot be self-
propelled or moved in the manner in which it was originally intended to move;
or is more than (5) five years old and appears to be worth less than one
hundred dollars ($100).
LAKE OR NATURAL WATERCOURSE
   Any stream, river, swamp, canal, or other waterway, and any reservoir, lake,
or pond, natural or impounded.
LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY
   Any use of the land by any person for residential, industrial, educational,
institutional, or commercial development, or for highway and road construction
and maintenance, that results in a change in the natural cover or topography
and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation. Within watershed management
areas, land-disturbing activity shall include the clear cutting of trees unless
specifically exempted by this Ordinance.
LANDOWNER
   The holder of the title in fee simple. Absent evidence to the contrary, a
local government may rely on the county tax records to determine who is a
landowner. The landowner may authorize a person holding a valid option, lease,
or contract to purchase to act as his or her agent or representative for the
purpose of making applications for development approvals.
LANDSCAPED AREA
   A portion of a site or property containing vegetation to exist after
construction is completed. Landscaped areas primarily include natural areas,
buffers, streetscapes, lawns, and plantings; but may also include organic and
inorganic mulch, decorative planters, irrigation systems, and elements of
ornamentation such as lamps, sculptures, and the like.
LEGISLATIVE HEARING
   A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed legislative decision.
LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC)
   An official determination issued by FEMA that amends or revises an effective
Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance Study. LOMC include:
   (a)   Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA): An official amendment, by letter, to
an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on technical
data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being in the
floodplain but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
   (b)   Letter of Map Revision (LOMR): A revision based on technical data that
may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard area
boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
   (c)   Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F): A determination that a
structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the base flood
elevation and is, therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard
area. In order to qualify for this determination, the fill must have been
permitted and placed in accordance with the community’s floodplain management
regulations.
   (d)   Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR): A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a Letter of Map Revision may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
LIGHT, CUTOFF
   An artificial outdoor lighting fixture designed to ensure that no light is
directly emitted above a horizontal line parallel to the ground.
LIGHT, NONCUTOFF
   An artificial outdoor lighting fixture designed to allow light to be
directly emitted above a horizontal line parallel to the ground.
LOAD
   Means the mass quantity of a nutrient or pollutant released into surface
waters over a given time period. Load in this ordinance refers to pounds of
nitrogen or phosphorus per year.
LOADING RATE
   Means the mass quantity of a nutrient or pollutant released from a given
area into surface waters over a given time period. Loading rate in this
ordinance refers to pounds of nitrogen or phosphorus per acre per year.
LOCAL STREETS
   Provide the highest degree of access and the least mobility. They are
generally associated with residential areas and permit direct access to
abutting land (examples include cul-de-sacs, loop streets, residential local
streets, non-residential local streets).
LOGO
   The graphic or pictorial presentation of a message, including, but not
limited to, the use of shapes, designs, decorations, emblems, trademarks,
symbols, or illustrations, or the superimposition of letters or numbers or any
other use of graphics or images other than the sequential use of letters and
numbers.
LOT
   A portion of a subdivision established by some legal instrument, such as a
recorded deed or plat, and which is recognized as a separate legal entity for
purposes of transferring title.
LOT, CORNER
   A lot located at the intersection and abutting two (2) or more streets.
LOT, NONCONFORMING
   A lot that met all legal requirements when it was platted or otherwise
recorded but which does not comply with the minimum lot area or minimum lot
width requirements of this Ordinance, or a subsequent amendment hereto, for the
zoning district in which it is located.
LOT OF RECORD
   A lot that is recorded by the county register of deeds.
LOW DENSITY DEVELOPMENT
   For purposes of the Watershed Protection Overlay district, development that
contains less than the amount of impervious surface area that is allowed
without the requirement for engineered stormwater control measures.
LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG)
   The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio slab immediately next to the
building, or deck support, after completion of the building.
LOWEST FLOOR
   The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed (including the basement). An
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, useable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than a basement
area is not considered a structure’s lowest floor, provided that such an
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this Ordinance.
MAJOR TRANSIT TRIP GENERATORS
   Sites that consist of any of the following uses: Mixed use or activity
centers, large commercial centers, midrise multi-family, hospitals, college or
universities, outdoor amphitheaters.
MANUFACTURED HOME OR MOBILE HOME
   A structure as defined in G.S. 143-145(7). The term “manufactured home” or
“mobile home” does not include a “recreational vehicle.”
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION, EXISTING
   For purposes of Sections
3.12 and
14.7 only, a manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction
of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads) was completed before May 10, 2001, the initial effective date of
the floodplain management regulations adopted by Cary.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION
   A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into two (2) or more
manufactured home spaces for rent or sale.
MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE
   A portion of a manufactured home park which is rented or leased for the
permitted placement of one (1) manufactured home and permitted accessory
structures or buildings for use by the occupant.
MAP REPOSITORY
   For purposes of Sections
3.12 and
14.7 only, the location of the official flood hazard data to be applied for
floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is stored
and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application of
digital flood hazard data products has the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM’s Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data the
NC FRIS website (http://FRIS.NC.GOV/FRIS) is the map repository, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://FLOODNC.GOV/NCFLOOD)
is the map repository.
MARKET VALUE
   The building value, not including the land value and that of any accessory
structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be established by
independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated for age of
building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or adjusted tax
assessed values.
MARQUEE
   A roof-like structure that cantilevers from the wall of a building over its
principal entrance, that has no vertical supports other than the wall from
which it cantilevers, and that provides a wall surface at least four (4) feet
high.
MASSAGE BUSINESS
   A commercial establishment where massage or similar treatment is
administered by a person licensed by the State and meeting the ethical and
educational requirements specified by the American Massage Therapy Association,
or equivalent national or state standards.
MASTER SIGN PLAN (formerly known as a Uniform Sign Plan)
   A plan establishing requirements for the size, location and design of signs
on a property that was part of a planned development or is being constructed
and/or managed as a single development.
MECHANICAL AND UTILITY EQUIPMENT
   Heating, ventilation, air conditioning, and other mechanical and utility
equipment, including but not limited to, hoses, pipes, vents, fans,
compressors, pumps, and heating and cooling units associated with buildings and
accessory structures.
MINIMUM DESIGN CRITERIA OR "MDC"
   The requirements for siting, site preparation, design and construction, and
post-construction monitoring and evaluation necessary for the issuance of
stormwater permits that comply with State water quality standards adopted
pursuant to G.S. 143-214. As defined in 15A NCAC 02H.1002(24).
MINOR ENTRANCE
   A street entrance or entrances leading from collector streets or marginal
access streets to subdivisions, multifamily developments, industrial,
commercial, office and institutional uses, and planned unit developments.
MODEL SALES HOME
   A permanent building intended for ultimate use as a residential dwelling
unit that is typical of the dwellings in the residential development where it
is located and which is temporarily used by the builder for the purpose of
display and sales associated with residential property where the builder has
other homes for sale in the same development or subdivision.
MULTI-OCCUPANT NON-RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
   A building or group of buildings under unified ownership or management that
contains more than one (1) non-residential establishment or occupant.
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4)
   The system of conveyances (including sidewalks, roads with drainage systems,
municipal streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or
storm drains) owned and operated by the Town of Cary and designed or used for
collecting or conveying stormwater, and that is not used for collecting or
conveying sewage.
NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT
   A permit issued by EPA (or by a State under authority delegated pursuant to
33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the
United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or
general area-wide basis.
NATURAL EROSION
   The wearing away of the earth's surface by water, wind, or other agents
under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by man.
NATURAL OBSTRUCTION
   Any rock, tree, gravel, or other natural matter that is an obstruction and
has been located within the one percent (1%) annual chance floodplain by a
nonhuman cause.
NET RESIDENTIAL ACREAGE
   As used in the Cluster Subdivision development option, the amount of land
which can be utilized for the placement of dwelling units and associated
appurtenances.
NEW CONSTRUCTION
   For purposes of Sections
3.12 and
14.7 only, structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or
after May 10, 2001, the effective date of Cary’s initial floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
NONCONFORMITY
   Any use, building, structure, lot, or sign that was lawful at the time it
was constructed or established but which fails to comply with one or more of
the applicable regulations or standards of this Ordinance.
NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA
   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than one (1) foot as designated in
the Flood Insurance Study report.
NON-EROSIVE
   The ability of a ground cover to withstand the velocity of stormwater runoff
during the design storm.
NON-RESIDENTIAL
   Used or intended for purposes other than as a dwelling unit.
NON-RESIDENTIAL CENTERS
   Shopping centers and other non-residential developments where buildings are
arranged in close proximity to each other.
NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE
   Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not composed entirely of
stormwater.
NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM 1988 (NAVD 1988)
   For purposes of Sections
3.12 and
14.7 only, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929,
the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain, to which Base Flood Elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM
are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
NOT-FOR-PROFIT BUSINESS
   A business or corporation whose activities and endeavors are not motivated
by or funded by profit-making motives.
NUISANCE VEHICLE
   A motor vehicle on public or private property that is determined and
declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance or unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be any of the following: A breeding ground or
harbor for mosquitoes, other insect, rats or other pests; a point of heavy
growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over eight inches (8") in height; a
point of collection of pools or ponds of water; a point of concentration of
quantities of gasoline, oil or other flammable or explosive materials as
evidenced by odor; one which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated
from the inside, such as hoods, trunks, etc.; so situated or located that there
is a danger of it falling or turning over; used by children in play activities;
one which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any
other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind; one which has sharp parts which
are jagged or contain sharp edges of metal or glass; and other vehicle
specifically declared a health and safety hazard or a public nuisance by the
Town Council.
OFF-SITE
   For the purpose of Sections 5.2.4(D) and (H), "off-site" location shall mean
any site not owned or leased by the owner or operator of the telecommunications
facility. However, this definition shall not include any property contiguous to
the property on which the telecommunications facility is physically located if
said property is:
   •   Owned or leased by the owner or operator of the telecommunications
facility; or
   •   Directly associated with the operation, maintenance or ownership of the
telecommunications facility; or
   •   Owned by the lessor of the property on which the telecommunications
facility is located.
OFFICE PARK
   A development containing more than one (1) office building and supporting
ancillary uses designed, planned, constructed, and managed on an integrated and
coordinated basis.
OFFSET
   A reduction in transportation development fees in accordance with this
Ordinance.
ONE YEAR, TWENTY FOUR HOUR STORM
   The surface runoff resulting from a twenty-four (24)-hour rainfall of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on average, once every twelve
(12) months and with a duration of twenty-four (24) hours.
OPEN SPACE
   Any portion of a parcel or area of land or water which is maintained in a
natural and undisturbed character. However, open space may include recreational
facilities such as swimming pools, golf courses, greenways and tennis courts.
OPEN SPACE, BONUS
   As used in Section
4.4.3 Conservation Residential Overlay District and Section
8.4 Alternative Development: Cluster Residential Subdivisions, is defined as
non-regulatory open space that is voluntarily provided within a cluster
subdivision or conservation residential overlay subdivision that meets the
requirements set forth in the relevant sections of this ordinance.
OPEN SPACE, COMMON
   Open space owned by a homeowner's association as part of a development, with
its use limited by private covenant or other deed restriction.
OPEN SPACE, REGULATORY
   As used in Section
4.4.3 Conservation Residential Overlay District and Section
8.4 Alternative Development: Cluster Residential Subdivisions, is defined as
open space that is required to be preserved pursuant to other provisions of the
Land Development Ordinance, and includes, but is not limited to, regulatory
floodplains, Urban Transition Buffers/stream buffers, streetscapes, American
Tobacco Trail buffer, and other required areas.
OUTDOOR DISPLAY OF GOODS
   The display and sale of products outside of a building or structure
including garden supplies, clothing, toys, play equipment, agricultural
products, building and landscape materials, food and beverages.
OUTDOOR DISPLAY/SALES AREA
   A specific area located adjacent to the principal entrance of a retail
structure which is intended for the sales and/or display of goods and products.
OUTFALL
   A point at which stormwater enters surface water or exits the property of a
particular owner.
OUTPARCEL
   A portion of land in a subdivision, shopping center, or other development
which does not contain the primary building or buildings associated with the
development, and which is intended for development of one (1) or more smaller
independent buildings usually located adjacent to a development's street
frontage. Such outparcels are typically smaller than the parent parcel and may
not be contiguous to the parcel containing the primary building or buildings.
OVERLAY DISTRICT
   A zoning district that includes supplementary or replacement regulations to
the requirements of the underlying, base zoning district.
PARAPET WALL
   That portion of a building wall that extends above the level of the
roofline.
PARCEL
   A piece of property that has not been approved as a portion of a subdivision
of land.
PARENT
   As used in Section
7.3, Stormwater Management, "parent" is an affiliate that directly or
indirectly, through one (1) or more intermediaries, controls another person.
PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET
   A space which is designed for the parking or temporary storage of one (1)
motor vehicle located outside of a dedicated street right-of-way.
PARKING SPACE, TANDEM
   A parking space within a group of two (2) or more parking spaces arranged
one behind the other.
PEAK HOUR TRIPS
   The greatest number of vehicle trips generated by a unit of new development
during any sixty (60) minute period in a given day.
PEAK STORMWATER RUNOFF
   The maximum amount of stormwater runoff passing over a designated point or
area during or after a storm event.
PENNANT
   Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, which is suspended from a rope, wire, string,
or pole, usually in series, and which is designed to move in the wind.
PERSON
   Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture, public or
private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or private
institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, or other legal entity.
PET GROOMING ESTABLISHMENT
   A personal service establishment at which domesticated animals are bathed,
clipped, trimmed or shorn, or other such non-medical treatment is administered
indoors, and no animals are kept on the premises overnight.
PHASE OF GRADING
   One (1) of two (2) types of grading: rough or fine.
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM
   The components and subsystems required to convert solar energy into electric
or thermal energy suitable for use. The term applies, but is not limited to,
solar photovoltaic (PV) systems, solar thermal systems, and solar hot water
systems that are accessory to a principal use. Such systems include, but are
not limited to, ground-mounted, roof-mounted, building-mounted, and building-
integrated photovoltaic systems.
PLAN, AS-BUILT
   A reproducible mylar plan showing the true and actual location and nature of
buildings, structures, plant materials, underground utility lines, and other
features or improvements that have been installed on or off the property
pursuant to a development plan approved under this Ordinance, to be used to
determine compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
PLAN, CONCEPT
   A graphical depiction of one (1) or more potential development alternatives
for one (1) or more parcels of land which includes less detail than a
development plan, but which is intended to convey information such as, but not
limited to: various general types of land uses or use classifications, their
general arrangement, and their general appearance within the plan's boundary.
PLAN, LANDSCAPING
   A plan, drawn to scale, showing dimensions and details of the portion of a
site devoted to planting materials and their maintenance.
PLAN, MASTER
   The maps, illustrations, and supporting text associated with a planned
development which conveys the allowable uses, densities, non-residential
intensities, and arrangement of uses within the boundaries of the planned
development along with any associated conditions, phasing schedules, and other
agreements.
PLAN, PLOT
   A map identifying the outer extents of a single unit or parcel of land which
can be referenced to a recorded plat or map.
PLAN, SKETCH
   A preliminary development plan that represents a concept of a proposed
project of sufficient accuracy and details to receive preliminary approval
under this Ordinance. Such plan must be followed by construction drawings to
receive final approval before actual development may commence.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT
   A tract of land that is planned and developed as an integral unit in
accordance with a master plan, detailed engineering and design plans, and
flexible development standards that illustrate and address land uses,
circulation, utilities, parking, setbacks, housing densities, land coverage,
landscaping and buffers, open space, and similar features of the project.
PLANNED TRANSIT ROUTE
   A transit route identified in the Town’s adopted Comprehensive Plan, the
Wake County Transit Plan, or any other local or regional plan applicable to the
Town.
PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT REGULATION JURISDICTION
   The geographic area within which the Town of Cary may undertake planning and
apply the development regulations authorized by G.S. 160D.
PLAT
   A map document prepared by a registered surveyor or engineer representing a
tract of land showing the boundaries and location of individual properties,
streets, and other related items for identifying property.
PLAT, FINAL
   A map indicating the final layout of a residential or non-residential
subdivision which illustrates lots, easements, dedications, and other similar
aspects, which have been approved by the Town, and is intended for recording
with the Register of Deeds.
PLAT, RECOMBINATION
   A map which depicts the joining of two or more individual units of land into
a new configuration which complies with the required standards and which is
intended for recording with the Register of Deeds.
POD
   As used in planned developments, smaller areas inside a planned development
boundary intended to contain similar and/or complimentary uses typically
accessed by the same primary roadways, and generally intended for development
at or around the same time.
POLLUTANT
   Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may include,
but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
PORCH
   An unenclosed exterior appendage to a building, forming a covered or
uncovered approach to a doorway.
PORTICO
   A porch or walkway, open to the outside air, which is covered by a roof that
is supported by columns or pillars, typically leading to the entrance of a
building. A portico is considered a "canopy" for purposes of determining
signage.
POST-FIRM
   Construction or other development for which the "start of construction"
occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map
for the area.
POSTER BOX
   A box installed on a wall for the purpose of displaying posters of shows at
a theater.
PRE-FIRM
   Construction or other development for which the "start of construction"
occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance Rate Map for
the area.
PREMISES
   Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether improved or
unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
PRESENT USE VALUE STANDARD
   A designation used by a County Property Appraiser to denote land which is
being used for agricultural purposes.
PRIMARY SCM
   A wet pond, stormwater wetland, infiltration system, sand filter,
bioretention cell, permeable pavement, green roof, rainwater harvesting, or an
approved new stormwater technology that is designed, constructed and maintained
in accordance with the MDC.
PRIMARY TRAVEL WAY
   Vehicular route that connects a street (public and/or private) to a drive
aisle. Vehicles access drive aisles from primary travel ways.
PRINCIPAL ENTRANCE
   An entrance or entrances leading from collector streets, major
thoroughfares, or highways to subdivisions, multi-family uses, planned
developments, industrial, commercial, or office and institutional subdivisions.
PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND
   At least fifty-one percent (51%) of the actual cash value of the structure
is above ground.
PROJECT
   For the purposes of Sections
4.4.6 and
7.3 only, the proposed development activity for which an applicant is seeking a
stormwater permit from the state or other entity in accordance with this
Section. "Project" shall exclude any land adjacent to the area disturbed by the
project that has been counted as pervious by any other development regulated
under a federal, State, or local stormwater regulation. Owners and developers
of large developments consisting of many linked projects may consider
developing a master plan that illustrates how each project fits into the design
of the large development.
PROPERTY
   All real property subject to the provisions of this Ordinance. The term
includes any improvements or structures customarily regarded as a part of real
property.
PUBLIC ART
   Items expressing creative skill or imagination in a visual form, such as
painting or sculpture which are intended to beautify or provide aesthetic
influences to public areas or areas which are visible from the public realm.
PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE
   For the purposes of Illegal Discharges to the storm sewer system, anything
which is injurious to the safety or health of an entire community or
neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs
the free passage or use, in the customary manner, of any navigable lake, river,
bay, stream, canal, or basin.
PUBLIC UTILITIES
   Any Town-approved water and/or sanitary sewer system, including collection
and distribution lines, which is constructed to Town standards, sizes, and
specifications, conforms to the requirements of this Ordinance, and has been
dedicated to and accepted by the Town for operation and maintenance.
PUBLIC VEHICULAR AREA
   Privately owned or maintained drives, driveways, roads, roadways, streets
and alleys ("non-public streets"):
   •   Upon the grounds and premises of any public or private institution;
   •   Upon the grounds and premises of any business establishment providing
access and parking space for customers, patrons, or the public; and
   •   Within a subdivision that has been offered for dedication to the public
by the filing of a map, plat or written instrument in the office of the
register of deeds; provided, however, a public authority has not accepted the
dedication of the street or assumed control over the street.
QUALIFIED PROFESSIONAL
   A person licensed by the State of North Carolina in the fields of
engineering, architecture, landscape architecture, or land surveying who is
allowed by the qualifications of their professional certification to perform
the prescribed duties of this Ordinance.
QUASI-JUDICIAL DECISION
   A decision involving the finding of facts regarding a specific application
of a development regulation and that requires the exercise of discretion when
applying the standards of the regulation. The term includes, but is not limited
to, decisions involving variances, special use permits, certificates of
appropriateness, and appeals of administrative determinations.
RADIO AND T.V. TRANSMISSION TOWERS
   A structure of wires, poles, rods, reflecting discs or similar devices used
for transmitting or receiving television, radio, telephone communication and/or
telecommunications, excluding satellite dish antennas.
REAL ESTATE SALES OFFICE
   A building or structure that is located on the site of a development or
subdivision and temporarily used for the purpose of selling or leasing
properties located within that development or subdivision.
RECREATION LAND, ACTIVE
   An area located within an existing or proposed residential or mixed use
development which is intended for utilization by residents as an area for
organized or unorganized team sports, and/or higher intensity outdoor
activities including running, swimming, or other forms of play.
RECREATION LAND, PASSIVE
   An area located within an existing or proposed residential or mixed use
development which is intended for utilization by residents as an area for owner
intensity enjoyment of the outdoors including walking, seating, or other low
impact recreational uses.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV)
   A vehicle which is:
      1.   built on a single chassis;
      2.   four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      3.   designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck ; and
      4.   designed primarily not for use as permanent dwelling, but temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REFERENCE LEVEL
   The top of the lowest floor for structures within Special Flood Hazard Areas
and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone AE, A, A99 or X
(Future).
REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION
   The elevation to which the reference level of all structures and other
development located within Special Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions
Flood Hazard Areas must be protected.
      (a)   In Special Flood Hazard Areas where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two (2) feet of
freeboard.
      (b)   In Special Flood Hazard Areas where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two (2) feet above the highest adjacent grade.
      (c)   In Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas this elevation shall be the
Future Conditions Flood Elevation plus two (2) feet of freeboard.
REMEDY A VIOLATION
   For the purposes of flood damage prevention, to bring the structure or other
development into compliance with State and community floodplain management
regulations, or, if this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its
noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be reduced include protecting the
structure or other affected development from flood damages, implementing the
enforcement provisions of the ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar
violations, or reducing Federal financial exposure with regard to the structure
or other development.
RESERVOIR WATERSHED
   A drainage basin that is tributary to a reservoir intended as a source for
public water supply.
RESIDENTIAL
   Used or intended for use as a dwelling unit.
RETENTION FACILITY
   Any type of detention facility that is not provided with a positive outlet.
RIGHT-OF-WAY
   An area owned or maintained by the Town, the State of North Carolina, a
public utility, a railroad, or a private concern for the placement of such
utilities and/or facilities for the passage of vehicles or pedestrians,
including roads, pedestrian walkways, utilities, or railroads.
RIVERINE
   Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries),
stream, brook, etc.
ROOF DECK
   The flat portion of a roof.
ROOF DECK, ACTIVATED
   Functional roof deck used to support sustainability features, such as, green
roofs and solar panels, and/or to provide outdoor amenity, entertaining or
hospitality facilities as an accessory use to the building.
ROUGHLY PROPORTIONAL
   A close relationship between the impacts from a proposed use or designation
and the various conditions or other limiting factors considered necessary by a
decision-making body to ensure that these impacts do not negatively affect
other properties, goals, or Town policies.
SALVAGE YARD
   Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection, and/or
recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to vehicles,
appliances and related machinery.
SANDWICH BOARD
   A temporary A-frame sign, not secured or attached to the ground or any
building or structure, composed of a sign panel and supporting structure or one
or more panels that form both the structure and sign face, and that is intended
to be placed in a sidewalk or pedestrian way.
SECURED
   Placed in a concrete footing, holes with compacted earth or gravel, or other
approved support, so as to be adequately affixed to the ground as a permanent
structure.
SEDIMENT
   Solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has been or is
being transported by water, air, gravity, or ice from its site of origin.
SEDIMENTATION
   The process by which sediment resulting from accelerated erosion has been or
is being transported away from a land-disturbing activity or into a lake or
natural watercourse.
SETBACK
   The minimum distance required between any building or structure and a street
right-of-way or lot line.
SETBACK, BUFFER
   An area adjacent to a required buffer where encroachments by structures are
prohibited.
SETBACK, ROADWAY
   The minimum distance required between the ultimate street right-of-way
boundary and the closest portion or side of a building or improvement adjacent
to that right-of-way.
SEVERE PRUNING
   Severe pruning of trees shall be defined as the removal of more than one-
third of the tree canopy or cutting back limbs to a point which prevents the
natural growth of the tree. Severe pruning of shrubs shall be defined as the
cutting back of branches to the point where the shrub does not meet the intent
of the streetscape or buffer requirements. See examples below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7649.jpg]
Removing diseased or storm-damaged branches
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7651.jpg]
Reducing the height of a tree
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-7653.jpg]
Removing obstructing lower branches
SIGHT TRIANGLE
   The horizontal and vertical areas at the intersections of streets and/or
driveways which must remain unobstructed, as set forth in the Town's Standard
Specifications_and_Details_Manual, in order to ensure that drivers can see
traffic and pedestrians around the corner of the intersection, entrance or
driveway.
SIGN
   Any device, fixture, placard or structure, that uses any color, form,
graphic, illumination, symbol, or writing to advertise, attract attention,
announce the purpose of, or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to
communicate information of any kind to the public. The following shall not be
considered signs subject to the regulations of
Chapter 9 of this Ordinance: artwork, cemetery markers, machinery or equipment
signs, lighting used to accentuate architectural or landscaping features, and
holiday and seasonal decorations. See
Chapter 9 for additional definitions related to signs.
SIGN, POLE
   A sign which is mounted on a freestanding pole or poles, or other support
structure such that the bottom edge of the sign face is forty-two (42) inches
or more above the adjacent grade or roadway crown height.
SIGNIFICANT RESOURCE
   A type of land attribute on a piece of land which has been identified as a
historic or natural feature which should be protected and preserved from a
proposed development or redevelopment.
SIGNIFICANT TREES/VEGETATION
   Any upper-story tree , greater than ten (10) inches in diameter at breast
height (DBH) or understory tree greater than two (2) inches in caliper, which
displays a root zone, canopy and limb structure characteristic of the
particular species, and is in good health and vigor.
SIGNIFICANT WORK
   In reference to vesting rights under the provisions of Section
3.17 of this Ordinance, the placement of permanent evidence of an improvement
on a site pursuant to a duly issued building or environmental permit, such as
the pouring of slabs or footings, the cost for which represents a major part of
the total cost of construction of the project.
SILTATION
   Sediment which results from accelerated erosion, which has been deposited or
is in suspension in water, which may be settled or removed by properly
designed, constructed, and maintained control measures, and which has been
transported from its point of origin within the site of a land-disturbing
activity.
SINGLE-UNIT DWELLING
   A building containing one (1) dwelling unit and not located on the same lot
as any other principal use.
SINGLE-UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
   Any development where: (1) no building contains more than one principal
dwelling unit, (2) every principal dwelling unit is on a separate lot, and (3)
where no lot contains more than one principal dwelling unit.
SITE
   A lot, tract or parcel of land considered as one (1) land unit for the
purposes of this Ordinance. For a single-unit residence, the site shall be the
subdivided lot on which it is located. For multi-family projects, the site
shall be all land occupied by the buildings in the project and adjoining such
property and under common ownership with it. For vacant land, the site shall be
all of the adjoining vacant land under single ownership. For single-occupancy,
non-residential properties, the site shall be the subdivided lot that is
occupied. For multiple-occupancy properties, the site shall be all land
included under the original development plan approval under the LDO or all land
included under the original "master sign plan" approval under this Ordinance or
its predecessor, whichever land area is larger.
SITE DESIGN GUIDELINES
   A policy document that provides specifications, criteria, and guidance
relating to issues typically addressed in a development plan, potentially
including but not limited to items such as: building placement and orientation;
dimensional standards; the roadway circulation network; roadway cross-sections,
driveways, and parking lots; landscaping treatments and themes; sidewalks and
pedestrian ways; streetscape treatments including elements such as upper-story
trees, street lights, and street furniture; signage and site entryway features;
locations for public art; public spaces such as public squares, village greens,
and pedestrian plazas; minimum or maximum individual building or tenant space
sizes; minimum or maximum block lengths; connectivity principles or
requirements; and block frontage coverage.
SLOPE
   A term used to express the amount of change in vertical elevation of the
land over a given horizontal distance.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY
   As defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(35), any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste.
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE
   As defined in NCGS 130A-290(a)(36), any place at which solid wastes are
disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or any other method.
SPECIAL EVENT
   Any organized event, specifically including, but not limited to, a temporary
sales event accessory to a principal use, or a circus, carnival, cultural
event, fair, party, communal camping, or celebration, which reasonably may be
expected to attract more than one hundred (100) persons at any one (1) time, or
which otherwise may reasonably be expected to increase the risk of:
   •   Damage to public or private property, beyond normal wear and tear;
   •   Injury to persons;
   •   Public or private disturbances or nuisances;
   •   Unsafe impediments or distractions to, or congestion of, vehicular or
pedestrian travel;
   •   Significant additional police, fire, trash removal, maintenance, or
other public services demands; or
   •   Other significant adverse effects upon the public health, safety, or
welfare.
   The term "special event" shall not include any organized activities
conducted at sites and facilities that are legal uses and structures under this
Ordinance and that are typically intended and used for such activities.
Examples of such activities include, but are not necessarily limited to,
sporting events such as 10K runs not held on public rights-of-way, golf,
soccer, softball, and baseball tournaments conducted on courses or fields
intended and used for such activities; wedding services conducted at reception
halls or similar facilities; funeral services conducted at funeral homes or
cemeteries; religious services, wedding services, and funeral services
conducted at places of worship; or noncommercial activities occurring within,
or upon the grounds of, a private residence or upon the common areas of a
multi-family residential development.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA)
   The land in the floodplain subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance
of being flooded in any given year based on current conditions hydrology. The
SFHA is identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or
produced under the Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the
State of North Carolina and FEMA in its Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM) or
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and its accompanying flood maps such as the Flood
Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRM) associated Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or
DFIRM panels and/or the Flood Boundary Floodway Map(s) (FBFM) for Wake,
Chatham, and Durham Counties dated July 19, 2022 and any revision thereto,
which are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this ordinance.
   The SFHA also includes those areas defined as SFHA or floodplain through
standard engineering analysis for private developments or by governmental
agencies, including those studies required by LDO Section
14.7.2(C).
SPECIAL USE
   A land use listed in
Chapter 5 of this Ordinance as a "special use" in the zoning district in which
it is located, and which is subject to the approval procedures set forth in
Section
3.8 of this Ordinance.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT
   A permit issued to authorize development or land uses in a particular zoning
district upon presentation of competent, material, and substantial evidence
establishing compliance with one or more general standards requiring that
judgment and discretion be exercised as well as compliance with specific
standards.
SPECIMEN TREES
   Any upper-story tree , greater than eighteen (18) inches in diameter at
breast height (DBH) or understory tree greater than four (4) inches in caliper,
which displays a root zone, canopy and limb structure characteristic of the
particular species, and is in good health and vigor.
START OF CONSTRUCTION
   The date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of
construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or
other improvement including substantial improvement was within one hundred and
eighty (180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation, or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filing; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include the excavation for
a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of the building, whether or not that alteration effects the external
dimensions of the building.
STATEMENT OF ARCHITECTURAL COMPATIBILITY (SAC)
   A legal document which depicts how the features of a proposed or existing
development addresses or will address the compatibility requirements with
adjacent and surrounding buildings or structures.
STOOP
   A covered or uncovered porch, platform, or entrance stairway at a house
door.
STOP PAD
   A concrete pad located adjacent to a roadway required at transit access
locations to allow passengers to board a bus and onto which passengers alight a
bus.
STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES
   The system of inlets, conduits, channels, ditches, and appurtenances which
serve to collect and convey stormwater through and from a given drainage area.
STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM
   Publicly-owned facilities by which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed,
including but not limited to any roads with drainage systems, municipal
streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping facilities,
retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered drainage
channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
STORM SEWER SYSTEM
   The system of catch basins, pipes (excluding residential rain gutters and
downspouts), sewers, drains, culverts, open ditches, creeks and rivers which
carry surface water and unpolluted water. A "storm sewer system" may be located
on public or private property or both. See "storm drainage facilities."
STORM, TEN-YEAR
   The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an intensity expected to be
equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in ten (10) years, and of a duration
which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for the watershed under
average antecedent wetness conditions.
STORM, TWENTY-FIVE YEAR
   The surface runoff resulting from a rainfall of an intensity expected to be
equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in twenty-five (25) years, and of a
duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff, from the watershed
of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
STORMWATER DESIGN MANUAL
   The State Stormwater Design Manual approved by the Department for the proper
implementation of the State Minimum Design Criteria for engineered stormwater
controls. All references herein to the Design Manual are to the latest
published edition or revision.
STORMWATER MANAGER
   An official or officials of Cary responsible for administration and
enforcement of Cary’s ordinances pertaining to sedimentation and erosion
control, floodplain management, and stormwater management.
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN
   A document which describes the Best Management Practices and activities to
be implemented by a person or business to identify sources of pollution or
contamination at a site and the actions to eliminate or reduce pollutant
discharges to stormwater, stormwater drainage systems, and/or receiving waters
to the maximum extent practicable.
STORMWATER RUNOFF
   Surplus water resulting from precipitation in any form that cannot percolate
into the earth or be accommodated satisfactorily by the existing drainage
system and which therefore travels overland to the nearest channel or body of
water.
STREAM
   A perennial or intermittent body of water running over the earth's surface
in a channel or bed and is shown on the most recent version of the 1:24,000
scale (7.5 minute) quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States
Geological Survey (USGS) and the most recent version of the Soil Survey of Wake
County, North Carolina, Soil Survey of Durham County, North Carolina, or Soil
Survey of Chatham County, North Carolina.
STREET
   A public or private right-of-way that is designed, dedicated, or used
principally for vehicular traffic.
STREET, ARTERIAL
   Higher order streets with controlled access which are intended for through
or regional traffic moving between urban centers and not intended for local or
residential neighborhood traffic. These streets have multiple travel lanes,
provide access to regional travelways, and carry high volumes of traffic.
STREET, COLLECTOR
   Streets that penetrate various land use classifications to provide both land
access and mobility within neighborhoods and commercial areas. Their primary
function is traffic service, collecting traffic from intersecting streets and
funneling it to major thoroughfares. A major collector roadway/street has
limited direct access from individual lots/parcels. A minor collector roadway/
street allows direct access of individual lots/parcels.
STREET, LOOP
   A street that originates and terminates at intersections with the same
street.
STREET, MAJOR COLLECTOR
   Streets which collect and distribute traffic from local roadways and urban
centers. These streets are intended to provide mobility and access within
neighborhoods and commercial areas and carry moderate amounts of traffic.
STREET, MINOR COLLECTOR
   Streets which collect and distribute traffic from local roadways and urban
centers. These streets are intended to provide mobility and access within
neighborhoods and commercial areas and carry smaller amounts of traffic than a
major collector.
STREET, PUBLIC
   Any street or road owned or maintained by a unit of government.
STREET, PRIVATE
   A road owned and maintained by a private individual, organization, or
company rather than by a government.
STREET, RESIDENTIAL
   A street whose primary function is to serve the immediately abutting
residential land uses (that is, only local traffic generated by the residents
near the street), with traffic volumes flowing from other intersecting
residential streets not exceeding the traffic volumes generated by the land
uses abutting the street.
STREET, THOROUGHFARE
   A street which serves as a primary traffic artery serving major centers of
activity and carrying traffic between such centers at moderate speeds, which
primarily has the function of carrying traffic which has an origin and
destination removed from that street itself, and access to which is primarily
provided by at-grade intersections which may be signal-controlled.
STREET FRONTAGE
   The distance for which a lot line adjoins a public or private street from
one lot line intersecting said street to the furthest lot line intersecting the
same street.
STREETSCAPE
   An area along a street that may be required by this Ordinance to provide
special landscape plantings or other treatment.
STREET-SIDE TRAILS
   Street-side trails are pedestrian trails located adjacent to roadways and
provide supporting linkage to the off-road greenway system.
STRUCTURE
   Any improvement upon land that requires more or less permanent location on
the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location on the
ground. This includes buildings, signs, decks and enclosed decks, manufactured
homes, a gas, liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above
ground, and impervious surfaces. Building setbacks shall not apply to certain
structures which do not require issuance of a building permit, and/or which may
by necessity pass through or encroach into setbacks, including driveways,
walkways, sidewalks, fences, private recreational equipment like swing sets or
basketball goals, fences and retaining walls less than eight (8) feet in
height, greenways, and similar features.
STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY (or Appurtenant Structure)
   For purposes of Sections
3.12 and
14.7 only, a structure located on the same parcel of property as the principal
structure and the use of which is incidental to the use of the principal
structure. Garages, carports, and storage sheds are common urban accessory
structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like qualify as accessory structures
on farms and may or may not be located on the same parcel as the farm dwelling
or shop building.
STRUCTURE, EXISTING
   For purposes of Sections
3.12 and
14.7 only, any or structure for which the “start of construction” commenced
before May 10, 2001, the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by Cary.
STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING
   A building or structure that met all legal requirements when constructed but
that does not comply with this Ordinance or a subsequent amendment hereto.
STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL
   A structure, or in some cases, group of structures, which contain or from
which the primary use of the property is conducted. The area of a principal
structure is considered the gross square footage contained within the exterior
walls of the structure.
SUBDIVIDER
   Any person, firm, or corporation who commences proceedings to effect the
subdivision of land.
SUBDIVISION
   All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two (2) or more lots,
building sites, or other divisions when any one (1) or more of those divisions
is created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate
or future)and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a
new street or a change in existing streets; but the following shall not be
included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations authorized by
G.S. 160D, Article 8:
      (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards set forth in this
Ordinance’s subdivision regulations.
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten (10) acres where
no street right-of-way dedication is involved.
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets or for public transportation system corridors.
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than two (2) acres into not more than three (3) lots, where no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to
or exceed the standards set forth in this Ordinance’s subdivision regulations.
      (5)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the terms
of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under Chapter 29
of the General Statutes.
   See also LDO Section
3.9.3(B).
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE
      (a)   Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any one (1)-
year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged
condition would equal or exceed fifty (50) percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred; or, See definition of substantial
improvement.
      (b)   flood-related damage sustained by a structure on two (2) separate
occasions during a 10 (ten) year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or exceeds twenty five
percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT
   For purposes of Section
3.12 and
14.7 only, any combination of repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place during any five
(5)-year period for which the cumulative cost equals or exceeds fifty (50)
percent of the market value of the structure before the start of construction
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
      (a)   any correction of existing violations of State or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or,
      (b)   any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved pursuant to this ordinance.
SUBSTANTIALLY COMMENCED
   For the purposes of G.S. 160D-108, “substantially commenced” means one or
more of the following construction activities toward the completion of a
development plan has occurred:
   •   Obtaining a grading permit and conducting grading activity on a
continuous basis and not discontinued for more than thirty (30) days; or
   •   Installation and approval of on-site infrastructure; or
   •   Obtaining a building permit for the construction and approval of a
building foundation.
SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION
   Where the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation or improvements of the
streets, utilities and pads exceeds fifty (50) percent of the value of the
streets, utilities and pads before the repair, reconstruction or improvement
commenced.
SURFACE WATER
   Runoff from rainfall or ground watering that finds its way naturally into
ditches and creeks.
SURVEY
   An official stamped or sealed document prepared by a licensed and registered
North Carolina Land Surveyor which graphically denotes the precise area,
boundaries, dimensions, location, and important attributes of a parcel or
portion of a parcel.
SWALE
   A depression in the ground or below the surrounding grade which is intended
to channel stormwater runoff.
SWEEPSTAKES
   Any game, advertising scheme or plan, or other promotion, which, with or
without payment of any consideration, a person may enter to win or become
eligible to receive any prize, including cash, merchandise, or anything else of
value, the determination of which is based on chance.
SWIMMING POOL
   Any receptacle or artificial basin of water, either above or below grade
level, intended for swimming or recreational bathing having a depth of eighteen
(18) inches or greater at the deepest point. This includes hot tubs and spas.
TABLED APPLICATION
   Any application for an entitlement, procedure, or approval outlined in
Chapter 3 which has been temporarily removed from consideration by a decision-
making body. Such removal may or may not have an associated time limitation.
TASTING ROOM
   A room that is ancillary to the production of beer, wine, or spirituous
liquor at a brewery, distillery, or winery where the public can purchase and/or
consume the beer, wine, or spirituous liquor.
TECHNICAL BULLETIN AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEET
   A FEMA publication that provides guidance concerning the building
performance standards of the NFIP, which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S.
Code of Federal Regulations at Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are
intended for use primarily by State and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins
do not create regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED
   Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or cooling system, built-
in or appliance.
THEATER
   An establishment offering to the public movies or live performances.
THOROUGHFARE, LIMITED ACCESS
   A thoroughfare whose sole function is to carry large volumes of traffic
safely and expediently through developed areas, and access to which is
controlled to occur only at intersections with other thoroughfares or streets,
with such intersections spaced at intervals which promote traffic progression
with the absolute minimal delays incurred. Speeds on limited access
thoroughfares are typically limited to no greater than forty-five (45) miles
per hour.
TOWN
   The Town of Cary, North Carolina.
TOWN-RECOGNIZED EVENT
   A celebration, festival, activity, or other event which is sponsored wholly
or in part by the Town, or which is recognized or proclaimed as a Town-
recognized Event by the Town Council. A list of such events is maintained in
the Town Clerk's office.
TOWN-RECOGNIZED HOMEOWNER'S ASSOCIATION
   A formally constituted non-profit association or corporation with an elected
or appointed board made up of property owners and/or residents.
TOWNHOUSE DEVELOPMENT
   One or more townhouses located on a single property.
TOXIC SUBSTANCE
   Any substance or combination of substances (including disease causing
agents), which after discharge and upon exposure, ingestion, inhalation, or
assimilation into any organism, either directly from the environment or
indirectly by ingestion through food chains, has the potential to cause death,
disease, behavioral abnormalities, cancer, genetic mutations, physiological
malfunctions (including malfunctions or suppression in reproduction or growth)
or physical deformities in such organisms or their offspring or other adverse
health effects.
TRACT
   All contiguous land under one (1) ownership or under multiple ownership
either undeveloped or developed as a single unit or recorded as a single unit.
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
   These devices include but are not limited to rumble strips, raised pavement
markers, pavement undulations, and speed bumps as defined in the current
edition of the Standard_Specifications_and_Details_Manual.
TRAIL, MULTI-PURPOSE
   An access way, whether paved or unpaved, which is intended to serve multiple
modes of travel including walking, jogging, bicycling, or other forms of non-
motorized transport.
TRANSIT ACCESS LOCATION
   A designated place along a transit route typically in the street right of-
way where a public transit vehicle stops to load and unload passengers, usually
consisting of, at a minimum, a stop pad. Also called a “bus stop.”
TRANSIT EASEMENT
   A permanent easement dedicated to the Town for the purpose of providing
public transit access at a transit access location. The transit easement
provides public access to the transit access location; and allows construction,
installation, operation, and maintenance of transit amenities by the Town.
TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES
   Stations and related facilities intended for the transportation of the
general public, including bus and railroad passenger stations.
TRANSPORTATION IMPROVEMENT
   Any improvement to any highway, road, or street designated on the
Transportation Plan.
TRAVEL TRAILER
   A device intended for human habitation on a short term or temporary basis
which lacks its own source of locomotion and is intended to be towed behind a
motor vehicle.
TREE, NATIVE
   A tree species that naturally occurs within Wake County or the Piedmont area
of North Carolina in which the Town of Cary is located.
TREE, ORNAMENTAL
   Woody Plants that are two (2) inches in caliper or larger and one of the
following species and other native specimens as specified in the Standard
Specifications and Details Manual, including native species of the following:
Amelanchier (Serviceberry), Ostrya (Hophornbeam), Halesia (Silverbell),
Chionanthus (Fringe Tree), Ilex (Holly), Cornus (Dogwood), Cercis (Redbud), and
Carpinus (Ironwood).
TREE, UNDERSTORY
A tree with a canopy that covers at least two hundred (200) square feet at
maturity but less than nine hundred (900) square feet under urban conditions,
with a crown diameter of at least fifteen (15) feet and a height at maturity
not exceeding forty (40) feet. For the purpose of Sections
7.2.5 and
7.2.10, understory trees include only dogwood (native Cornus species),
horticultural cherry (Prunus species), redbud (Cercis canadensis), ironwood
(Carpinus caroliniana), and silverbell (Helesia carolina).
TREE, UPPER-STORY
   A tree with a canopy that covers at least sixteen hundred (1,600) square
feet at maturity under urban conditions, with a crown diameter of at least
forty (40) feet and a height at maturity of at least sixty (60) feet.
TREE SURVEY
   A map or plan identifying certain trees in accordance with the requirements
of Section
7.2.5 to assist in the preservation and protection of trees.
TRUCK, LIGHT DUTY
   Any motor vehicle rated at eight thousand five hundred (8,500) pounds Gross
Vehicular Weight Rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of six
thousand (6,000) pounds or less and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of
forty-five (45) square feet or less as defined in 40 CFR 86.082-2 and is: (a)
designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is a
derivation of such a vehicle, or (b) designed primarily for transportation of
persons and has a capacity of more than twelve (12) persons; or (c) available
with special features enabling off-street or off-highway operation and use.
TRUNKLINE
   A measured line between existing tree trunks greater than four (4) inches in
caliper.
UNCOVERED AREA
   As used in Section
7.4 of this Ordinance, an area having no ground cover on or above the soil
surface.
UNDERDEVELOPED LAND
   A parcel or site which contains some form of structure or other land-
disturbing activity, but which is developed substantially less than that
otherwise allowable under the area's zoning designation or as otherwise
controlled by public or private utilities.
URBAN TRANSITION BUFFER (UTB)
   A buffer established along streams within the Cary Planning Jurisdiction
effective at protecting private and public investment, buffering incompatible
uses, promoting conservation, balancing the built environment with preservation
of natural resources and open spaces, and preserving the identity and character
of Cary.
USE, ANCILLARY
   A use located on the same lot as a principal use which provides necessary
support to the activities occurring within the principal use.
USE, INCIDENTAL
   A use located on the same lot as a primary use, but which is subordinate and
minor in significance to the principal use, but which bears a reasonable
relationship with the principal use.
USE, NONCONFORMING
   The use of a building or land that met all legal requirements when first
established but which this Ordinance, or a subsequent amendment hereto, does
not allow in the zoning district in which it is located.
USE, PERMITTED
   A land use allowed in a zoning district without the need for special
administrative review and approval, but in accordance with the standards and
requirements of this Ordinance.
USE, TEMPORARY
   A land use or structure this [that] is needed or in place only for short
periods.
UTILITY TRAILER
   A container on wheels which is intended to be towed or hauled by another
motorized vehicle used for the transport of products, equipment, and/or other
vehicles.
VARIANCE, MAJOR
   For the purposes of the Watershed Protection Overlay district only, a
variance that constitutes:
   •   The complete waiver of any requirement; or
   •   The increase by ten percent or more of any numerical requirement. (For
example, raising an impervious surface limit for a development from 70 percent
to 77 percent.)
   •   The reduction of any requirement under the High Density Development
Option.
VARIANCE, MINOR
   For the purposes of the Watershed Protection Overlay district only, any
other variance that does not qualify as a major variance.
VEGETATION USE AREA
   An area which has been set aside for the sole use of vegetation or other
planted materials which includes the below-ground area occupied by the roots,
the area on the surface covered by mulch or other ground cover, and the area
above the ground which is occupied by the trunk, branches, and leaves of the
vegetation.
VEHICULAR GATE
   A gate or similar structure across a drive, driveway, road, roadway, street
or alley that may be used to block the entrance or passage of motor vehicles.
This term includes all forms of gates, including automatic and manual gates and
gates manned by attendants.
VEHICULAR SECURITY GATE
   A vehicular gate for a non-residential use that provides safety and security
yet is operated such that emergency service providers can pass through at any
time.
VEHICULAR USE AREA
   Any portion of the site or property, paved or unpaved, designed to receive
or accommodate vehicular traffic, including the driving, parking, temporary
storage, loading, or unloading of any vehicle.
VELOCITY, FLOW
   The average velocity of flow through the cross-section of the main channel
of a watercourse at the peak flow of the storm. The cross-section of the main
channel is that area defined by the geometry of the channel, plus the area of
flow below the flood height, which is defined by vertical lines at the banks of
the main channel. Overload flows shall not be included for the purpose of
computing velocity of flow.
VIOLATION, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   For the purposes of flood damage prevention, the failure of a structure or
other development to be fully compliant with the community's floodplain
management regulations. A structure or other development without the elevation
certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required is
presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WALL, EXTERIOR
   A vertical structural component of a building that encloses habitable or
usable space; a parapet extending not more than twelve inches above a flat roof
shall be considered part of the exterior wall for purposes of determining
signage.
WALL, FIRE
   A common or shared wall between two separate structures, buildings, or
dwelling units which has a minimum rating related to its ability to withstand
the impacts of fire or intense heat for a specified period of time.
WALL, PARTY
   A common or shared wall between two separate structures, buildings, or
dwelling units.
WASTE
   Surplus materials resulting from on-site construction that is disposed of at
other locations.
WASTEWATER
   Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater, discharged
from a facility.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE)
   The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE
   A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other topographic feature on
or over which waters flow at least periodically. Watercourse includes
specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may occur.
WATERSHED
   The entire land area, also known as a drainage area, which collects
precipitation and contributes surface runoff to a receiving body of water or
specific point along a watercourse.
WATERSHED CRITICAL AREA
   The area adjacent to a water supply intake or reservoir where risk
associated with pollution is greater than from the remaining portions of the
watershed. The critical area is defined as extending either one-half (0.5) mile
from the normal pool elevation of the reservoir in which the intake is located
or to the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first); or one-half
(0.5) mile upstream from the intake located directly in the stream or river
(run-of-the-river), or the ridge line of the watershed (whichever comes first).
WATERSHED OVERLAY
   That land area of a watershed that is defined on the Official Zoning Map on
file in the Planning Department, provided that more precise boundaries may be
established by topographic data from actual site surveys.
WATERSHED PROTECTED AREA
   The land area lying adjacent to a water supply watershed and extending to a
point five (5) miles from the shoreline at normal pool level.
WETLANDS
   Those areas that inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life
in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes, bogs,
and similar areas.
WINDBLOWN DEVICE
   Any banner, pennant, spinner, streamer, propeller, disc, moored blimp, gas
balloon, or flag (that is not of local, state, federal, corporate, nonprofit or
religious origin) designed to inform or attract attention, whether or not such
device carries a message, all or part of which is set in motion by wind,
mechanical, electrical or any other means.
WORKING DAYS
   Days exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays observed by the
Town.
YARD
   An open space on a lot which is generally unoccupied and unobstructed by any
building or structure, except as otherwise allowed in this Ordinance.
YARD, FRONT
   The area located between the front of the principal building or structure
(or use in the absence of a principal building or structure) and the boundary
of the lot upon which the principal building or structure is located. The front
of a principal building or structure is the one typically containing the
primary entrance.
YARD, REAR
   The area located between the rear of the principal building or structure (or
use in the absence of a principal building or structure) and the boundary of
the lot upon which the principal building or structure is located. The rear of
a principal building or structure is typically the side immediately opposite
the primary entrance.
YARD, SIDE
   The area located between the side of the principal building or structure (or
use in the absence of a principal building or structure) and the boundary of
the lot upon which the principal building or structure is located. The side of
a principal building or structure typically does not contain the primary
entrance.
YARD SALE
   The sale or offering for sale to the general public of over five (5) items
of personal property on any portion of a lot in a residential zoning district,
whether within or outside any building. Also known as a yard sale, tag sale, or
rummage sale.
ZONING DISTRICT
   A section or portion of the Town within which certain zoning regulations and
requirements governing the use of buildings and land apply under the provisions
of this Ordinance.
ZONING DISTRICT, NON-RESIDENTIAL
   A zoning district established under this Ordinance that primarily allows
uses that are not residential in nature but are intended to serve commercial,
office, institutional or similar uses and activities.
ZONING DISTRICT, OVERLAY
   A zoning district established under this Ordinance that prescribes special
regulations to be applied to a site in combination with the underlying or base
district.
ZONING DISTRICT, RESIDENTIAL
   A residential zoning district established under this Ordinance that
primarily permits uses that are intended for household or group living.
(Ord. No. 04-007, 7-15-04; Ord. No. 04-013, 10-28-04; Ord. No. 05-001, 1-13-05;
Ord. No. 05-002, 1-13-05; Ord. No. 05-007, 5-12-05; Ord. No. 06-005, adopted 3-
23-06; eff. 3-23-06; Ord. No. 06-009, 4-27-06; Ord. No. 2007-04, 3-22-07; Ord.
No. 2007-21, 12-13-07; Ord. No. 2008-LDO-01, 9-25-08; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-01, 2-
12-09; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-02, 3-26-09; Ord. No. 2009-LDO-03, 5-14-09; Ord. No.
2010-LDO-01, 1-14-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-03, 2-25-10; Ord. No. 2010-LDO-05, 12-
16-10; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-01, 1-11-11; Ord. No. 2011-LDO-02, 4-14-11; Ord. No.
12-LDO-01, 2-23-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-06, 8-9-12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-07, 8-23-
12; Ord. No. 2012-LDO-08, 10-11-12; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-02, 6-13-13; Ord. No.
2013-LDO-04, 9-26-13; Ord. No. 2013-LDO-07, 12-19-13; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-03, 8-
14-14; Ord. No. 2014-LDO-04, 8-28-14; Ord. No. 2015-LDO-001, 4-21-15; Ord. No.
2015-LDO-003, 7-23-15; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-01, 7-25-16; Ord. No. 2016-LDO-02, 12-
8-16; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-01, 1-24-17; Ord. No. 2017-LDO-02, 3-30-17; Ord. No.
2018-LDO-01, 5-3-18; Ord. No. 2018-LDO-03, 11-15-18; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-03, 10-
10-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-02, 11-21-19; Ord. No. 2019-LDO-04, 12-12-19; Ord. No.
2020-LDO-01, 5-7-20; Ord. No. 2021-LDO-01, 6-24-21; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-01, 1-13-
22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-02, 4-28-22; Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22; Ord. No.
2023-LDO-02, 3-23-23; Ord. No. 2023-LDO-03, 6-22-23)
Chapter 14:
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
14.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
14.1.1   Purposes
   
14.1.2   Authority
14.2   NUISANCE AND HAZARD CONTROL STANDARDS
   
14.2.1   Purpose and Applicability
   
14.2.2   General Standards and Measures for Compliance
   
14.2.3   Performance Standards
   (A)   Landscaping
   (B)   Noise
   (C)   Odors
   (D)   Glare
   (E)   Smoke
   (F)   Dust and Other Particulate Matter
   (G)   Gases
   (H)   Fire and Explosion Hazards
   (I)   Radiation and Radioactivity
   (J)   Electrical Radiation
   (K)   Wastewater and Industrial Wastes
   (L)   Underground and Above-Ground Storage Tanks
   
14.2.4   Effects of Concurrent Operations on Different Properties
   
14.2.5   Determination of Violation of Performance Standards
14.3   ILLEGAL DISCHARGES TO THE STORM SEWER SYSTEM
   
14.3.1   Purpose
   
14.3.2   Applicability
   
14.3.3   Responsibility for Administration
   
14.3.4   Compatibility with other Regulations
   
14.3.5   Severability
   
14.3.6   Ultimate Responsibility
   
14.3.7   Discharge Prohibitions
   (A)   Prohibition of Illegal Discharges
   (B)   Prohibition of Illicit Connections
   
14.3.8   Watercourse Protection
   
14.3.9   Industrial or Construction Activity Discharges
   (A)   Submission of Notice of Intent to Cary
   
14.3.10   Compliance Monitoring
   (A)   Right of Entry; Inspection and Sampling
   (B)   Search Warrants
   
14.3.11   Requirement to Prevent, Control, and Reduce Stormwater Pollutants by
the Use of Best Management Practices
   
14.3.12   Notification of Spills
   
14.3.13   Violations, Enforcement, and Penalties
   (A)   Violations
   (B)   Warning Notice
   (C)   Notice of Violation
   (D)   Compensatory Action
   (E)   Suspension of MS4 Access
   (F)   Civil Penalties
   (G)   Crime Prosecution
   
14.3.14   Appeal of Notice of Violation
   
14.3.15   Enforcement Measures After Appeal
   
14.3.16   Cost of Abatement of the Violation
   
14.3.17   Violations Deemed a Public Nuisance
   
14.3.18   Remedies Not Exclusive
14.4   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
   
14.4.1   Purposes
   
14.4.2   Permit and Approval Requirements
   
14.4.3   General Erosion and Sedimentation Control Standards
   (A)   Conveyance Channels
   (B)   Slopes Left Exposed
   (C)   Design Requirements
   (D)   Protective Cover Required
   (E)   Activity Near Watercourse
   (F)   Protection During Construction
   (G)   Limits on Single-Unit Residential Lot Grading
   (H)   Limit on Grading Area for Medium Density Residential Developments
   (I)   Installation of Required Landscape After Grading
   (J)   Compliance with Town Manual
   
14.4.4   Basic Control Objectives for Erosion Control Plans
   (A)   Identify Especially Vulnerable Areas
   (B)   Limit Time of Exposure
   (C)   Limit Exposed Area
   (D)   Control Surface Water
   (E)   Control Sedimentation
   (F)   Manage Stormwater Runoff
   
14.4.5   Borrow and Waste Areas
   
14.4.6   Access and Haul Roads
   
14.4.7   Operations in Lakes or Natural Watercourses
   
14.4.8   Non-Compliance
14.5   TREE CLEARING CERTIFICATE
   
14.5.1   Purpose
   
14.5.2   Applicability
   
14.5.3   Exemptions
   
14.5.4   Required Buffers and Vegetation Protection Areas
   
14.5.5   Application Requirements
   
14.5.6   Procedure
   
14.5.7   Non-Compliance
14.6   URBAN TRANSITION BUFFER REGULATIONS
   
14.6.1   The Purpose and Intent of Urban Transition Buffers
   
14.6.2   Establishing General Urban Transition Buffers
   
14.6.3   Establishing Specialized Urban Transition Buffers
   (A)   Property within Watershed Protection Overlay
   (B)   Uses Allowed Within Specialized UTBs
   (C)   Measurement of Specialized UTBs
   
14.6.4   Overlap or Conflict between Urban Transition Buffers established by
Cary and buffers established by State of North Carolina or Federal Regulations
   
14.6.5   Activities Prohibited and Permitted in Urban Transition Buffers
   
14.6.6   Description of Buffers on Development Plans
   
14.6.7   Exclusion of Urban Transition Buffer and Riparian Buffer from Lots
   
14.6.8   Exemption when Existing Uses are Present and Ongoing
   
14.6.9   Determinations of No Practical Alternatives/Request for Authorization
Certificate
   
14.6.10   Modification of Urban Transition Buffers as part of Approving
Development Plans
   (A)   Procedures for Requesting Modifications to Zone Three
   (B)
   (C)
   
14.6.11   Variances
   (A)
   (B)   Requirements for Variances
   (C)   Minor Variances
   (D)   Major Variances
   
14.6.12   Mitigation
   (A)
   (B)   Issuance of the Mitigation Approval
   (C)   Options for Meeting the Mitigation Requirement
   (D)   The Area of Mitigation
   (E)   The Location of Mitigation
   (F)   Donation of Property
   (G)   Riparian Buffer Restoration or Enhancement
   
14.6.13   Site Inspections
   
14.6.14   Violations; Fines; Enforcement
   
14.6.15   Delegation of Authority
   
14.6.16   Definitions
14.7   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
14.7.1   Purpose; Enforcement
   (A)
   (B)   Objectives
   (C)
   (D)
   (E)
   
14.7.2   Applicability
   (A)   Applicability
   (B)   Exemptions
   (C)   Study Required
   
14.7.3   Development Restrictions and Related Standards In and Near Special
Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas
   (A)   Development Restrictions
   (B)   Development Standards
   (C)   Additional Development Standards and Restrictions for Areas with
Established Base Flood Elevation Data
   (D)   Application Requirements
   (E)   Additions/Improvements
   (F)   Additions/Improvements to Existing Structures
   (G)   Accessory Structures
   
14.7.4   Limitations on Encroachments in Floodways and Non-Encroachment Areas
   
14.7.5   Standards for Streams without Established Base Flood Elevations
   
14.7.6   Cross Drainage Area Standards and Restrictions
   
14.7.7   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes
   
14.7.8   Special Requirements for Development Proposals Requiring Development
Plan Approval
   
14.7.9   Downstream Impact Analysis
   
14.7.10   Non-Compliance
14.1   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   14.1.1   Purposes
      In addition to promoting the general purposes outlined in Section
1.3 of this ordinance, the purposes of this chapter include:
      (A)   To encourage the proper use of the land by promoting an appropriate
balance between the built environment and the preservation of open space,
environmentally sensitive lands, and natural resources;
      (B)   To protect private and public investment by preserving open space;
protecting natural resources including the existing tree canopy and forests;
reducing heat and air pollution; capturing carbon; and protecting water quality
in our streams and waterways;
      (C)   To protect and promote the health and economic value of streams,
waterways, trees, forests, open space, and natural lands; and
      (D)   To promote water quality benefits through preserving natural areas
and encouraging good soil management.
   14.1.2   Authority
      This chapter is adopted pursuant to, among other authorities, G.S. Part
2, Article 9 of Chapter 160D; Article 8 of Chapter 160A, and Part 6, Article 21
of Chapter 143.
(Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
14.2   NUISANCE AND HAZARD CONTROL STANDARDS
   14.2.1   Purpose and Applicability
      This section is intended to ensure that industrial, research, and other
business activities are established and maintained with proper appearance from
streets and adjoining properties, and to ensure that such activities are good
neighbors to adjoining properties by controlling the emission of noise, odors,
glare, vibration, smoke, dust, liquid wastes, radiation, radioactivity, and
similar pollutants. Accordingly, this section states the performance standards
and conditions with which Cary expects the construction and operation of
industrial, research, and other business activities to comply. These
performance standards, like all other provisions of this Ordinance, are
continuing obligations, and all industrial, research, and other business uses
will be expected to operate in compliance with these standards. Any land use
that fails to comply with these standards shall be in violation of this
Ordinance.
   14.2.2   General Standards and Measures for Compliance
      (A)   All uses shall be conducted so as to preclude any nuisance, hazard,
or commonly-recognized offensive condition or characteristics of the use,
including the creation or emission on other properties of dust, gas, smoke,
noise, fumes, odors, vibrations, particulate matter, chemical compounds, toxic
matter, fire, explosions, electrical disturbance, heat, glare, or excessive
night illumination. At any time before or after a building is used or occupied,
the Planning Director may require that adequate control measures be provided in
accordance with the requirements or standards of the appropriate state or
federal government agency responsible for regulating that condition or
pollutant, in order to protect the public health, safety, comfort, convenience,
and general welfare from any such nuisance, hazard, condition, or pollutant.
      (B)   Federal and State environmental regulations may also apply to one
or more of the features governed by the standards in Section
14.2.3 below. The intent is for the standards of this section to supplement and
complement, not supersede or replace, any applicable Federal and State
regulations. If any standard herein conflicts with an applicable Federal or
State standard, then the Federal or State standard shall control.
   14.2.3   Performance Standards
      (A)   Landscaping
         All required front yards, side yards, and rear yards shall be open,
landscaped green areas or left in their natural state. Where landscaped, such
yards shall be planted attractively with lawn, trees, shrubs, and the like in
accordance with the development plan which Cary has approved for the use. Any
areas left in their natural state shall be properly maintained in a sightly and
well-kept condition. Parking areas also shall be maintained in a sightly and
well-kept condition.
      (B)   Noise
         Noise shall be muffled so as not to become objectionable at or beyond
the property line due to intermittent beat frequency, shrillness, or intensity.
      (C)   Odors
         Odors from any use shall not exceed the standards established by the
State of North Carolina.
      (D)   Glare
         Direct or reflected glare, such as from floodlights or high
temperature processes, and as differentiated from general illumination, shall
not be visible at or beyond any property line.
      (E)   Smoke
         Smoke emissions shall not exceed the maximum limits established by the
State of North Carolina.
      (F)   Dust and Other Particulate Matter
         Solid or liquid particulate matter shall not be emitted at any point
in a concentration exceeding three-tenths (0.3) grains per cubic foot of the
conveying gas or air.
      (G)   Gases
         Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in concentrations or
amounts that are noxious, toxic, corrosive, or in excess of any applicable
maximum limits established by State or Federal regulations.
      (H)   Fire and Explosion Hazards
         All operations shall be carried out in accordance with the Cary Fire
Code and with reasonable precautions against fire and explosive hazards.
      (I)   Radiation and Radioactivity
         Operations shall cause no radiation or radioactivity at or beyond any
property line that exceeds any applicable standards or regulations established
by the U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission or by other federal or state
agencies or laws.
      (J)   Electrical Radiation
         Any electrical radiation shall not at any point adversely affect or
interfere with any operations or equipment other than those of the person,
company, or other entity emitting the radiation. Avoidance of adverse effects
or interference from electrical radiation by appropriate single or mutual
scheduling of operations is permitted.
      (K)   Wastewater and Industrial Wastes
         All wastewater and industrial wastes shall be treated and disposed in
such a manner as to comply with the water quality standards applicable to the
classification assigned to the receiving waters by the State of North Carolina.
Approval by the State of North Carolina of all plans for waste disposal
facilities shall be required before the issuance of any building permit. All
uses connected to Cary's sanitary sewer system also shall comply with all
applicable requirements established in
Chapter 36 of the Code of Ordinances of Cary.
      (L)   Underground and Above-Ground Storage Tanks
         All storage tanks which are placed above or below the ground shall be
designed and installed so as to prevent the infiltration of their contents into
groundwater or surface waters, and to comply with all applicable State
regulations promulgated by the North Carolina Department of Health, Environment
and Natural Resources.
   14.2.4   Effects of Concurrent Operations on Different Properties
      The sum total of the effects of concurrent operations on two (2) or more
parcels measured at any property line shall not be greater or more offensive to
the senses than the standards contained in this section. Compliance with the
provisions of this section may occur by independent or mutual changes in
operational levels, scheduling of operations, and other adjustments.
   14.2.5   Determination of Violation of Performance Standards
      (A)   The Planning Director shall have the authority to determine
violations of the standards set forth in this section.
      (B)   Where determination of a violation of these standards requires the
use of personnel or instruments not available to Cary, and a violation exists
in the opinion of the Planning Director, the following procedures shall be
followed:
         (1)   The Planning Director shall give written notice of the alleged
violation by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
owner or occupant of the property. The notice shall describe the alleged
violation, state the reasons why the Director believes there is a violation,
and require that the owner or occupant answer the allegation within thirty (30)
days of receiving the notice.
         (2)   After the thirty (30)-day period passes, if a dispute still
exists between the Director and the alleged violator regarding the existence of
a violation, then the alleged violator may appeal to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. The Director shall then transmit to the Board a copy of the notice
given to the alleged violator, along with any recommendations as to
alterations, modifications, or securing the services of a consultant to
determine whether a standard has been violated. The Board then shall make a
determination as to whether a violation exists.
         (3)   If the Zoning Board of Adjustment finds the alleged violation to
exist, then the costs of making that determination shall be charged to the
owner or occupant of the property responsible for the violation. If the Zoning
Board of Adjustment determines that no violation exists, then Cary shall cover
the costs of making the determination.
         (4)   If a violation is not removed or corrected as directed by the
Zoning Board of Adjustment, then the Director may:
            (a)   Void any occupancy permits previously issued to the violator
and require the operator to cease operation until the violation is removed,
corrected, or otherwise remedied; and/or
            (b)   Initiate further enforcement actions under
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance.
      (C)   Where determination of a violation of these standards does not
require the use of personnel or instruments not available to Cary, the Director
may initiate enforcement actions under
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
14.3   ILLEGAL DISCHARGES TO THE STORM SEWER SYSTEM
   14.3.1   Purpose
      The purpose of this section 14.3 is to provide for the health, safety,
and general welfare of the citizens of Cary through the regulation of non-storm
water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable
as required by federal and state law. This section establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal separate storm
sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives
of this section are:
      (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by storm
water discharges by any user.
      (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4.
      (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, monitoring, and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure
compliance with this section.
   14.3.2   Applicability
      This section 14.3 shall apply to all water entering the storm drain
system generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly
exempted by Cary.
   14.3.3   Responsibility for Administration
      The Town Manager shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions
of this section 14.3. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the Town
Manager may be delegated by the Town Manager to persons or entities acting in
the beneficial interest of or in the employ of Cary.
   14.3.4   Compatibility With Other Regulations
      This section 14.3 is not intended to modify or repeal any other
ordinance, rule, regulation, or other provision of law. The requirements of
this section are in addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law, and where any provision of this section
imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule,
regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive
or imposes higher protective standards for human health or the environment
shall control.
   14.3.5   Severability
      The provisions of this section 14.3 are hereby declared to be severable.
If any provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this section or the
application thereof to any person, establishment, or circumstances shall be
held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this section.
   14.3.6   Ultimate Responsibility
      The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this section
14.3 are minimum standards; therefore, this section does not intend or imply
that compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
   14.3.7   Discharge Prohibitions
      (A)   Prohibition of Illegal Discharges
         No person shall throw, drain, or otherwise discharge, cause, or allow
others under its control to throw, drain, or otherwise discharge into the MS4
any pollutants or waters containing any pollutants, other than stormwater. The
commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
         (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this ordinance: water line flushing, landscape irrigation,
diverted stream flows, rising ground waters, uncontaminated ground water
infiltration, uncontaminated pumped ground water, discharges from potable water
sources, foundation drains, air conditioning condensation, irrigation water,
springs, water from crawl space pumps, footing drains, lawn watering,
individual residential car washing, flows from riparian habitats and wetlands,
dechlorinated swimming pool discharges, and street wash water.
         (2)   Discharges or flow from firefighting, and other discharges
specified by the Town as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
         (3)   Discharges associated with dye testing; however, this activity
requires a verbal notification to the Town prior to the time of the test.
         (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-stormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), provided that the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
      (B)   Prohibition of Illicit Connections
         (1)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
         (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
         (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this ordinance if
the person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a
connection to continue.
         (4)   Improper connections in violation of this ordinance must be
disconnected and redirected, if necessary, to an approved onsite wastewater
management system or the sanitary sewer system upon approval of the Town.
         (5)   Any drain or conveyance that has not been documented in plans,
maps or equivalent, and which may be connected to the storm sewer system, shall
be located by the owner or occupant of that property upon receipt of written
notice of violation requiring that such locating be completed. Such notice will
specify a reasonable time period within which the location of the drain or
conveyance is to be determined, that the drain or conveyance be identified as
storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other, and that the outfall location or point of
connection to the storm sewer system, sanitary sewer system or other discharge
point be identified. Results of these investigations are to be documented and
provided to the Town.
   14.3.8   Watercourse Protection
      Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
   14.3.9   Industrial or Construction Activity Discharges
      (A)   Submission of Notice of Intent to Cary
         (1)   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity
NPDES stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such
permit. Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form
acceptable to the Town prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
         (2)   The operator of a facility, including construction sites,
required to have an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with
industrial activity shall submit a copy of the Notice of Intent (NOI) to the
Town at the same time the operator submits the original Notice of Intent to the
EPA as applicable.
         (3)   The copy of the Notice of Intent may be delivered to the
Stormwater Manager in person or by mailing it to: Notice of Intent to Discharge
Stormwater, Stormwater Manager, 316 N. Academy Street, Cary, NC 27513.
         (4)   A person commits an offense if the person operates a facility
that is discharging storm water associated with industrial activity without
having submitted a copy of the Notice of Intent to do so to the Town.
   14.3.10   Compliance Monitoring
      (A)   Right of Entry: Inspection and Sampling
         The Stormwater Manager shall be permitted to enter and inspect
facilities subject to regulation under this ordinance as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this ordinance.
         (1)   If a discharger has security measures in force which require
proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow access to
representatives of Cary.
         (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Town ready access to all
parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, examination and
copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an NPDES permit to
discharge stormwater, and the performance of any additional duties as defined
by state and federal law.
         (3)   The Town Manager or is/her designee shall have the right to set
up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of
the Town to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater
discharge. The monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's stormwater shall be
at the facility’s expense.
         (4)   Cary has the right to require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
         (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access
to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Town and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the operator.
         (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing Cary access to a permitted
facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this
ordinance. A person who is the operator of a facility with an NPDES permit to
discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if
the person denies Cary reasonable access to the permitted facility for the
purpose of conducting any activity authorized or required by this ordinance.
      (B)   Search Warrants
         If the Town has been refused access to any part of the premises from
which stormwater is discharged, then the Town may seek issuance of a search
warrant.
   14.3.11   Requirement to Prevent, Control, and Reduce Stormwater Pollutants
by the Use of Best Management Practices
      Cary will adopt requirements identifying Best Management Practices (BMPs)
for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to
pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of
the United States. The owner or operator of such activity, operation, or
facility shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-
structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a property or premise that
is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to
implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and non-structural
BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the MS4. Compliance with
all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of
storm water associated with industrial activity, to the extent practicable,
shall be deemed in compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs
shall be part of a Stormwater Management Plan (SWMP) as necessary for
compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
   14.3.12   Notification of Spills
      Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response
for a facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release
of materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of
the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency
response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the
event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the
Stormwater Manager in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the Stormwater Manager within two (2) business
days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates
from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for
at least five (5) years. Failure to provide notification of a release as
provided above is a violation of this ordinance.
   14.3.13   Violations, Enforcement, and Penalties
      (A)   Violations
         It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail
to comply with any of the requirements of this section 14.3. Any person who has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this section, may be subject
to the enforcement actions outlined in this section or may be restrained by
injunction or otherwise abated in a manner provided by law.
         In the event the violation constitutes an immediate danger to public
health or public safety, the Town is authorized to enter upon the subject
private property, without giving prior notice, to take any and all measures
necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. Town Manager is
authorized to seek costs of the abatement as outlined in section
14.3.16.
      (B)   Warning Notice
         When the Town finds that any person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this section 14.3, or any order issued hereunder, the
Town may serve upon that person a written Warning Notice, specifying the
particular violation believed to have occurred and requesting the discharger to
immediately investigate the matter and to seek a resolution whereby any
offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or resolution of the matter
in response to the Warning Notice in no way relieves the alleged violator of
liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of the Warning
Notice. Nothing in this subsection shall limit the authority of Cary to take
any action, including emergency action or any other enforcement action, without
first issuing a Warning Notice.
      (C)   Notice of Violation
         Whenever the Town finds that a person has violated a prohibition or
failed to meet a requirement of this section 14.3, the Town may order
compliance by written notice of violation to the responsible person. The Notice
of Violation shall contain:
         (1)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
         (2)   The address when available or a description of the building,
structure or land upon which the violation is occurring, or has occurred;
         (3)   A statement specifying the nature of the violation;
         (4)   A description of the remedial measures necessary to restore
compliance with this ordinance and a time schedule for the completion of such
remedial action;
         (5)   A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be
assessed against the person to whom the notice of violation is directed;
         (6)   A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed
by filing a written notice to the Stormwater Manager within five (5) days of
service of notice of violation; and
         (7)   A statement specifying that, should the violator fail to restore
compliance within the established time schedule, the work will be done by a
designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall be
charged to the violator.
            Such notice may require without limitation:
            (a)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
            (b)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
            (c)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall
cease and desist;
            (d)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
            (e)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation
costs; and
            (f)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
      (D)   Compensatory Action
         In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized
by this ordinance, Cary may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
action, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance workshops,
creek cleanup, etc.
      (E)   Suspension of MS4 Access
         (1)   Emergency Cease and Desist Orders
            When the Town finds that any person has violated, or continues to
violate, any provision of this section 14.3, or any order issued hereunder, or
that the person's past violations are likely to recur, and that the person's
violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or threatened
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably appears to
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, the Stormwater Manager may issue an order to the
violator directing it immediately to cease and desist all such violations and
directing the violator to:
            (a)   Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements; and
            (b)   Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
            Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under this
Subsection shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering
discharge. In the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the emergency order, Cary may take such steps as deemed
necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the MS4 or waters of the United
States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the environment, including
immediate termination of a facility's water supply, sewer connection, or other
municipal utility services. Cary may allow the person to recommence its
discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Stormwater
Manager that the period of endangerment has passed, unless further termination
proceedings are initiated against the discharger. A person that is responsible,
in whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall
submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful
discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the Town
within thirty (30) days of receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an
emergency cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite
for, taking any other action against the violator.
         (2)   Suspension due to Illicit Discharges in Emergency Situations
            The Town Manager may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the Town Manager may take such steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
         (3)   Suspension due to the Detection of Illicit Discharge
            Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this ordinance
may have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce
an illicit discharge. The Town will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the Town Manager for a
reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an offense if the person
reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this Section, without
the prior approval of the Town.
      (F)   Civil Penalties
         In the event the alleged violator fails to take the remedial measures
set forth in the notice of violation or otherwise fails to cure the violations
described therein within five (5) days, or such greater period as the
Stormwater Manager shall deem appropriate, after the Stormwater Manager has
taken one or more of the actions described above, the Stormwater Manager may
impose a penalty not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) (depending on the
severity of the violation) for each day the violation remains unremedied after
receipt of the notice of violation.
      (G)   Criminal Prosecution
         Any person that has violated or continues to violate this ordinance
shall be liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law and
shall be subject to a criminal penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000) per
violation per day and/or imprisonment for a period of time not to exceed thirty
(30) days. Each act of violation and each day upon which any violation shall
occur shall constitute a separate offense.
   14.3.14   Appeal of Notice of Violation
      Any person receiving a Notice of Violation may appeal the determination.
The notice of appeal must be received within five (5) days from the date of the
Notice of Violation and must specify with particularity the grounds for the
appeal. Hearing on the appeal before the court of appropriate jurisdiction
shall take place within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of the notice
of appeal. The decision of the municipal authority or their designee shall be
final.
   14.3.15   Enforcement Measures After Appeal
      If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the Notice of Violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within thirty
(30) days of the decision upholding the NOV, then representatives of Cary shall
enter upon the subject private property and are authorized to take any and all
measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall
be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any
premises to refuse to allow the government agency or designated contractor to
enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
   14.3.16   Cost of Abatement of the Violation
      Within thirty (30) days after abatement of the violation, the owner of
the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including
administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting
to the amount of the assessment within thirty (30) days. If the amount due is
not paid within a timely manner as determined by the decision of the municipal
authority or by the expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the
charges shall become a special assessment against the property and shall
constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this article shall become liable to Cary by
reason of such violation. The liability shall be paid in not more than ten (10)
equal payments. Interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum shall be
assessed on the balance beginning on the first day following discovery of the
violation.
   14.3.17   Violations Deemed a Public Nuisance
      In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this section 14.3 is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is
declared and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
   14.3.18   Remedies Not Exclusive
      The remedies listed in this section 14.3 are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the Stormwater Manager to seek cumulative remedies.
Cary may recover all attorney's fees, court costs and other expenses associated
with enforcement of this ordinance, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
(Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
14.4   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
   14.4.1   Purposes
   This section is adopted for the purpose of regulating land-disturbing
activities in order to control accelerated erosion and sedimentation and
accordingly to prevent water pollution from sedimentation, to prevent
accelerated erosion and sedimentation of lakes and natural watercourses, and to
prevent damage to public and private property by sedimentation during and after
construction.
   14.4.2   Permit and Approval Requirements
      Land-disturbing activities shall be subject to the requirements and
procedures set forth in Section
3.13 of this Ordinance for obtaining grading permits and the approval of
erosion control plans and required permits by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
or other federal or state agencies responsible for regulating development in
wetlands. Any required state and/or federal permits must be obtained prior to
the issuance of a grading permit.
   14.4.3   General Erosion and Sedimentation Control Standards
      All persons conducting land-disturbing activities shall take all
reasonable measures to protect all public and private property from damage by
such activities. Any and all state and/or federal standards apply and must be
met. In situations where state and/or federal rules conflict with the
provisions of this section, the more restrictive shall apply. All land-
disturbing activities, except for those exempted by Section
3.13.1 of this Ordinance, shall meet the following standards:
      (A)   Conveyance Channels
         (1)   Stream banks and drainageway channels downstream from any land-
disturbing activity shall be protected from increased degradation by
accelerated erosion caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land-
disturbing activity. The land-disturbing activity shall be planned and
conducted such that the velocity of stormwater runoff in the receiving
watercourse at the point of discharge resulting from a ten (10)-year storm
after development shall not exceed the greater of:
            (a)   The velocity as determined from
Table 14.4-1 below; or
            (b)   The velocity in the receiving watercourse determined for the
ten (10)-year storm prior to development.
TABLE 14.4-1: MAXIMUM PERMITTED VELOCITIES FOR STORMWATER DISCHARGES
Material Feet per Second Meters per Second*
TABLE 14.4-1: MAXIMUM PERMITTED VELOCITIES FOR STORMWATER DISCHARGES
Material                               Feet per Second Meters per Second*
Fine sand (noncolloidal)               2.5             0.8
Sandy loam (noncolloidal)              2.5             0.8
Silt loam (noncolloidal)               3.0             0.9
Ordinary firm loam                     3.5             1.1
Fine gravel                            5.0             1.5
Stiff clay (very colloidal)            5.0             1.5
Graded, loam to cobbles (noncolloidal) 5.0             1.5
Graded, silt to cobbles (colloidal)    5.5             1.7
Alluvial silts (noncolloidal)          3.5             1.1
Alluvial silts (colloidal)             5.0             1.5
Coarse gravel (noncolloidal)           6.0             1.8
Cobbles and shingles                   5.5             1.7
Shales and hard pans                   6.0             1.8
* These values are for channels with straight alignment. For sinuous
channels: multiply allowable velocity by 0.95 for slightly sinuous channels;
by 0.9 for moderately sinuous channels; and by 0.8 for highly sinuous
channels.
 
         (2)   If the requirements of paragraph (1) above cannot be met, then
the channel below the discharge point shall be designed and constructed to
withstand the expected velocity. Any channel stabilization activities involving
stream bank stabilization may not be approved without the required state and/or
federal permits.
         (3)   Alternative and innovative measures to satisfy the intent of
this paragraph (A), applied either alone or in combination, may be used if
there are no objectionable secondary consequences and the applicant can
demonstrate to the Stormwater Manager that such measures have the potential to
keep stormwater discharge velocities from creating an erosion problem in the
receiving watercourse. Some alternative measures include:
            (a)   Avoiding increases in surface runoff volume and velocity by
including measures to promote infiltration to compensate for increased runoff
from areas rendered impervious;
            (b)   Avoiding increases in stormwater discharge velocities by
using vegetated or roughened swales or waterways in lieu of closed drains and
high-velocity paved sections;
            (c)   Providing energy dissipators, which may range from simple
rip-rapped sections to complex structures, at the outlets of storm drainage
facilities to reduce flow velocities to the point of discharge; and/or
            (d)   If the watercourse velocity is greater than 2.0 F.P.S.,
improving cross-sections and installing erosion-resistant linings.
      (B)   Slopes Left Exposed
         Slopes left exposed shall be planted or otherwise provided with ground
cover, devices, or structures sufficient to restrain erosion within fifteen
(15) calendar days after completion of any phase of grading.
      (C)   Design Requirements
         Erosion and sedimentation control measures, structures, and devices
shall be planned, designed, and constructed to provide protection from the
calculated maximum peak rate of runoff from the ten (10)-year storm. Runoff
rates shall be calculated in accordance with Cary's Standard Specifications and
Details Manual. Calculations shall be submitted with the plans and shall be
drafted and organized in a neat and readable manner.
      (D)   Protective Cover Required
         All uncovered areas shall be provided with protective cover unless the
Planning Director has granted an extension of time, for good cause shown, upon
written request of the developer or landowner. This cover shall be installed
within fifteen (15) working days (exclusive of days where seedbed preparation
is not possible due to weather as determined by the Stormwater Manager) or
ninety (90) calendar days following completion of any phase of grading,
whichever period is shorter. Ground cover is not required on cleared land
forming the future basin of a planned reservoir.
      (E)   Activity Near Watercourse
         All land-disturbing activities near a lake or natural watercourse
shall provide erosion and sedimentation control measures. An undisturbed buffer
may be used as an erosion/ sedimentation control measure, provided that the
undisturbed zone shall be of sufficient width to confine visible siltation
within the twenty-five percent (25%) of the undisturbed zone nearer to the
land-disturbing activity. This requirement shall not apply to land-disturbing
activities for the construction of facilities to be located on, over, or under
a lake or natural watercourse.
      (F)   Protection During Construction
         During construction, soil erosion and sedimentation control practices
and devices shall be employed that are sufficient to retain the sediment
generated by the land-disturbing activity within the boundaries of the tract
during construction upon and development of said tract in accordance with plans
approved by Cary.
      (G)   Limits on Single-Unit Residential Lot Grading
         Grading and Erosion Control Plans submitted as part of a development
plan associated with residential development that has a gross density of three
(3) units per acre or less are limited to clearing and disturbing only the land
area required to install the infrastructure to serve the development (e.g.,
sewer and water lines, roads, storm water devices, greenways, and similar
infrastructure). Until a building permit is issued for a lot, each lot must
remain undisturbed, with the exception of portions of a lot impacted by the
installation of infrastructure. Exceptions to grade upon a lot prior to the
issuance of a building permit may be granted as a modification to the original
plan approved by Cary, if there is sufficient justification (e.g., problematic
drainage issues and/or severe topographic issues).
      (H)   Limit on Grading Area for Medium Density Residential Developments
         Development plans containing residential development with a gross
density not exceeding eight (8) units per acre shall not grade more than
twenty-five (25) acres per phase or section of development. Each twenty-five
(25) acre phase or section of development must be stabilized and seeded meeting
the requirements of this ordinance prior to grading an additional phase or
section of development. Exceptions to this requirement may be granted as a
modification to the original plan approved by Cary if compliance is not
practicable due to physical site constraints, such as topography, presence of
stream buffers or other natural features, or lot dimensions; or due to presence
of existing development or infrastructure.
      (I)   Installation of Required Landscape After Grading
         See Section
7.2.3, Requirements for Perimeter Buffers and Landscape Areas, for the specific
requirements.
      (J)   Compliance with Town Manual
         In addition to the standards set forth in this section, all soil
erosion and sedimentation control measures shall conform to the applicable
minimum standards set forth in Cary's Standard Specifications and Details
Manual.
   14.4.4   Basic Control Objectives for Erosion Control Plans
      In addition to meeting the standards of this Section
14.4.3 above, all erosion control plans submitted for approval under Section
3.13 of this Ordinance shall be developed and implemented in accordance with
the following objectives:
      (A)   Identify Especially Vulnerable Areas
         On-site areas that are subject to severe erosion, and off-site areas
that are especially vulnerable to damage from erosion and/or sedimentation,
shall be identified and receive special attention.
      (B)   Limit Time of Exposure
         All land-disturbing activities shall be planned and conducted to limit
exposure to the shortest feasible time.
      (C)   Limit Exposed Area
         All land-disturbing activities shall be planned and conducted to
minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any one (1) time.
      (D)   Control Surface Water
         Surface water runoff originating upgrade of exposed areas should be
controlled to reduce erosion and sediment loss during the period of exposure.
      (E)   Control Sedimentation
         All land-disturbing activities shall be planned and conducted so as to
prevent off-site sedimentation damage.
      (F)   Manage Stormwater Runoff
         When the increase in the velocity of stormwater runoff resulting from
a land-disturbing activity is sufficient to cause accelerated erosion of the
receiving watercourse, erosion control plans shall include measures to control
the velocity at the point of discharge so as to minimize accelerated erosion of
the site and increased sedimentation of the stream.
   14.4.5   Borrow and Waste Areas
      When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is also the
person conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity, areas from which
borrow is obtained and which are not regulated by the Mining Act of 1971 (G.S.
74-46 et seq., as amended), and waste areas for surplus materials other than
landfills regulated by the N. C. Department of Human, Environment, and Natural
Resources, Division of Solid Waste Management, shall be considered as part of
the land-disturbing activity from where the borrow material is being used or
from which the waste material originated. When the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity is not the person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of
the waste, these areas shall be considered a separate land-disturbing activity.
   14.4.6   Access and Haul Roads
      Temporary access and haul roads, other than public roads, constructed or
used in connection with any land-disturbing activity shall be considered a
component of such activity.
   14.4.7   Operations in Lakes or Natural Watercourses
      Land-disturbing activities for construction in, on, over, or under a lake
or natural watercourse shall be planned and conducted so as to minimize the
extent and duration of disturbance of the stream channel or lakebed. Where
relocation of a stream is an essential component of the proposed activity, the
relocation shall be planned and executed so as to minimize changes in the
stream flow characteristics, except where the developer or landowner
demonstrates to the Planning Director that significant alteration to the flow
characteristics is justified.
   14.4.8   Non-Compliance
      Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall constitute a
violation of this Ordinance, and shall subject an offending party to
enforcement as provided in section
11.4 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
14.5   TREE CLEARING CERTIFICATE
   14.5.1   Purpose
      This section implements the enabling legislation granted to Cary by the
North Carolina General Assembly. The purposes of these regulations are to:
      (A)   Protect existing trees and shrubs located upon undeveloped sites
for use as future buffers and streetscapes to meet development plan
requirements;
      (B)   Preserve existing tree and vegetative cover to protect and promote
the health, safety, and welfare of the public by preserving the visual and
aesthetic qualities of Cary; maintaining property values; maximizing the
physical, mental, and social health benefits provided by trees and forests;
providing shade and reducing surface temperatures; reducing air pollution and
road noise; sequestering carbon; controlling erosion; and reducing sediment and
other pollutant runoff into streams and waterways in an effort to protect water
quality; and
      (C)   Create a process whereby some properties are required to obtain a
tree clearing certificate, recognize some properties are exempted from the
requirement to obtain a tree clearing certificate prior to the removal of
vegetation, and establish penalties for removal of all or substantially all of
the required vegetation within required vegetation protection areas.
   14.5.2   Applicability
      The requirements for obtaining a Tree Clearing Certificate and penalties
for non- compliance are applicable to all undeveloped properties that are zoned
for residential or non-residential use located within Cary limits and/or
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ). For the purposes of the section,
"undeveloped properties" shall include any property within Cary's jurisdiction
that is not subject to an approved development plan.
   14.5.3   Exemptions
      A Tree Clearing Certificate shall not be required for the activities
listed below.
      (A)   Normal forestry activities taking place on property that is taxed
under the present-use value standard or conducted pursuant to a forestry
management plan prepared or approved by a forester registered pursuant to G.S.
Chapter 89B, and provided such activities are accomplished in compliance with
this Ordinance.
      (B)   Properties with a Cary-approved development plan provided such plan
has not expired and that any clearing or vegetation removal is done in strict
accordance with the approved development plan.
      (C)   The removal of vegetation by public or private agencies within the
lines of any public street rights-of-way, utility easements, or other Cary
property, as may be necessary to ensure public safety, to obtain clear
visibility at driveways or intersections, to perform authorized field survey
work, or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such Cary property.
      (D)   The Cary-initiated or approved removal of any vegetation which is
in an unsafe condition, constitutes a nuisance or noxious weed, or which by its
nature is injurious to sanitary sewers, electrical power lines, gas lines,
water lines, stream or conveyance channels, or other public improvements, or
vegetation which is infected with any injurious fungus, insect, or other pest.
      (E)   The removal of vegetation on property located within an approved
residential subdivision that is zoned for single-unit residential use, and
provided such vegetation is not a portion of a required streetscape or other
landscaping buffer.
      (F)   The removal of less than fifty percent (50%) of vegetation on
property of three (3) acres in size or less which is vacant and zoned for
residential purposes.
   14.5.4   Required Buffers and Vegetation Protection Areas
      Other than that necessary to gain reasonable access to the property,
clearing and/or removal of trees and other vegetation shall be prohibited in
the areas listed below. In situations where one (1) or more buffer zones or
vegetation protection areas overlap on the same site, then the more restrictive
requirement shall apply.
      (A)   A perimeter streetscape zone having a width of fifty (50) feet as
measured from all ultimate property boundaries that adjoin existing roadways as
depicted in the Cary Transportation Plan or as required in Section
7.2.4, Streetscape and Streetfront Landscaping. For the purposes of this
section, the term "ultimate property boundary" of a parcel or tract shall mean
the final demarcation line around the perimeter of a parcel excluding all areas
that must be dedicated to Cary for use as rights-of-way.
      (B)   A perimeter buffer zone having a width of sixty-five (65) feet as
measured from all property boundaries that adjoin developed property or vacant
property with an approved development plan.
      (C)   A perimeter buffer zone having a width of thirty-two (32) feet as
measured from all property boundaries that adjoin undeveloped property or
vacant property without an approved development plan.
      (D)   Any other areas necessary for the protection of existing vegetation
as indicated within this Ordinance (e.g., Urban Transition Buffers).
   14.5.5   Application Requirements
      (A)   An application for a Tree Clearing Certificate may be filed only by
all the owners of the property or by such owners' authorized agent.
      (B)   An application for a Tree Clearing Certificate shall be filed with
the Planning Department. The application form shall be accompanied by a
Vegetation Protection Plan that shall include, at a minimum, the following
information on a sheet size no larger than twenty-four (24) by thirty-six (36)
inches at a minimum scale of one (1) inch equals fifty (50) feet:
         (1)   Vicinity map showing the location of the tract at a readable
scale.
         (2)   A map of the entire tract, including the property boundary of
the entire tract by courses and distances with references to true meridian and
the location and dimension of all on-site and adjacent off-site easements
(e.g., drainage, utility, public access, aerial utility, conservation,
permanent and temporary construction easements).
         (3)   General information about the tract, including but not limited
to the owner of the tract; the current zoning of the tract, the area of the
tract, and the conditional-use zoning conditions, planned unit development
master plan requirements, if applicable.
         (4)   The location and use(s) of all existing building(s) on the
tract.
         (5)   The owner, current zoning, and present use of all contiguous
properties (including property on opposite side of adjoining streets).
         (6)   The general classification of all existing and proposed adjacent
roadways (as depicted in the Cary Transportation Plan) and the ultimate right-
of-way boundaries associated with these roadways.
         (7)   The location and width of all future/existing buffers and
associated vegetation protection areas, including Urban Transition Buffers,
perimeter buffers and perimeter streetscapes.
         (8)   The proposed limits of timbering activities, including the
location and extent of all tree protection fencing as required under
Chapter 7 of this Ordinance.
      (C)   The Planning Director may reduce or waive the requirements for a
Vegetation Protection Plan in situations where it can be demonstrated that all
vegetation removal will take place outside of required vegetation protection
areas.
   14.5.6   Procedure
      Prior to the commencement of any vegetation clearing or removal on any
undeveloped property, the owner or the owner's agent must demonstrate exemption
from the requirements of this section or submit the required application
materials and applicable fees for a Tree Clearing Certificate.
      (A)   Upon receipt of documentation that a property is exempted from
obtaining a Tree Clearing Certificate, the Planning Director shall review all
materials and make a determination if a property is exempted from the
requirements or if the requirements apply. In situations where exemption status
is claimed based on forestry use, this documentation shall include proof that
the property is taxed under the present-use value standard, or a copy of the
valid forestry management plan prepared or approved by a North Carolina
registered forester. The decision of the Planning Director may be appealed to
the Zoning Board of Adjustment pursuant to Section
3.21.
      (B)   If a property is not exempted from the provisions pertaining to a
Tree Clearing Certificate, then such application materials shall include a
Vegetation Protection Plan consistent with the requirements listed in Section
14.5.5(B) above.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58600.png]
 
      (C)   The Vegetation Protection Plan shall be reviewed by the Planning
Director based upon the provisions of
3.9 of this Ordinance.
      (D)   An applicant for a Tree Clearing Certificate shall be notified upon
approval of the Vegetation Protection Plan and shall be free to erect or
install any and all barriers necessary to protect existing vegetation within
required buffer areas and vegetation protection areas from damage during tree
clearing and/or removal activities. Failure to protect these areas shall result
in penalties as indicated in Section
7.2.13, Maintenance Responsibility, Replacement of Damaged Vegetation, and
Associated Fines.
      (E)   Once all barriers for the protection of existing vegetation have
been installed, a property owner or agent shall request inspection of such
barriers for compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
      (F)   Upon a passing inspection of vegetation protection barriers, the
Director of Planning shall issue a Tree Clearing Certificate, and authorized
vegetation clearing and/or removal may commence.
   14.5.7   Non-Compliance
      Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall constitute a
violation of this Ordinance, and shall subject an offending party to a series
of actions listed in
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
14.6   URBAN TRANSITION BUFFER REGULATIONS
   14.6.1   The Purpose and Intent of Urban Transition Buffers
      Urban Transition Buffers (UTBs or “buffers”) provide a transition from
waterbodies and environmentally sensitive areas associated with waterbodies to
areas which are less fragile and appropriate for more intense uses and
development. Some of the benefits of UTBs are minimizing danger to lives and
properties from flooding, preserving the water carrying capacity of the
waterbodies, preserving tree canopy, reducing temperatures, capturing carbon,
improving air quality, providing open spaces, limiting intense uses adjacent to
waterbodies and environmentally sensitive areas associated with waterbodies,
and maintaining the aesthetic qualities and appearance of Cary. As part of the
Cary's Land Development Ordinance, UTBs implement many of Cary's
responsibilities under State and Federal law and regulations regarding
stormwater management and watershed preservation and are designed to work in
conjunction with erosion and sedimentation control regulations. Cary's water
utility system uses surface water to provide drinking water to its citizens and
the preservation of this resource is important to Cary and its citizens.
General UTBs are uniform and comprehensive zoning buffers which accomplish
these important benefits and purposes as well as regulating and restricting the
location of buildings, structures, and land, providing yards and open spaces,
all for the promotion of health, safety and the general welfare of Cary's
citizens. Specialized UTBs exist to address concerns which are not present in
Cary's entire zoning jurisdiction.
   14.6.2   Establishing General Urban Transition Buffers
      (A)   This Section 14.6 shall apply to activities conducted within, or
outside of with hydrologic impacts in violation of the diffuse flow
requirements set out in Section 14.6.2(C)(1)(c), the following basins/watershed
as designated on the most recent officially adopted version of maps maintained
by the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission:
         (1)   Cape Fear Basin/Jordan Watershed
            (a)   A one hundred (100) foot wide buffer directly adjacent to all
surface waters (intermittent streams, perennial streams, lakes, reservoirs, and
ponds) as approximately indicated on the most recent version of the 1:24,000
scale {'{'}seven and one-half (7.5) minute{'}'} quadrangle topographic maps
prepared by the United States Geological Survey (USGS).
            (b)   A fifty (50) foot wide buffer approximately adjacent to any
surface waters (intermittent streams, perennial streams, lakes, reservoirs and
ponds) shown on the most recent version of the Soil Survey of Wake or Chatham
or Durham County, North Carolina prepared by the Natural Resources Conservation
Service of the United States Department of Agriculture and not shown on a USGS
quadrangle topographic map, or shown on a map approved by the Geographic
Information Coordinating Council and by the NC Environmental Management
Commission pursuant to 15A NCAC.0267.
         (2)   Neuse River Basin
            (a)   A fifty foot (50') wide buffer beginning at the landward
boundary of any Neuse River Riparian Buffer mandated by regulations adopted by
the Environmental Management Commission of the State of North Carolina and
established adjacent to surface waters (intermittent streams, perennial
streams, lakes, reservoirs and ponds) as approximately indicated on the most
recent version of the 1:24,000 scale {'{'}seven and one-half (7.5) minute{'}'}
quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States Geological Survey
(USGS).
         (3)   Wetlands adjacent to surface waters or within fifty (50) feet of
surface waters shall be considered as part of the UTB but are regulated
pursuant to Rules 15A NCAC 2B .0230 and .0231, Rules 15A NCAC 2H .0500, 15 NCAC
2H .1300, and Sections 401 and 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act.
      (B)   General UTBs are applied to specific properties as follows:
         (1)   Where the specific origination point of a stream regulated under
subsection (A)(1) is in question upon request of the NC Division of Water
Resources ("Division") or another party, Cary shall make an on-site
determination. Cary representative who has the training required by 15A NCAC
02B .0267 shall establish that point using the methods described by 15A NCAC
02B .0267. Any disputes over said on-site determinations shall be referred to
the Director of the Division of Water Resources c/o the 401 Oversight Express
Permitting Unit or its successor in writing. The Director’s determination is
subject to review as provided in Articles 3 and 4 of G.S. Chapter 150B.
         (2)   When a landowner or other affected party including the Division
believes that the maps referenced in subsection (A)(1) have inaccurately
depicted surface waters, he or she shall consult Cary. Upon request the Cary
representative who has the training required by 15A NCAC 02B .0267 shall make
an on-site determination. Any disputes over said on-site determination shall be
referred to the Director of the Division of Water Resources c/o the 401
Oversight Express Permitting Unit or its successor, in writing. A determination
of the Director as to the accuracy or application of the maps is subject to
review as provided in Articles 3 and 4 of G.S. Chapter 150B. Surface waters
that appear on maps shall not be subject to these requirements if a site
evaluation reveals any of the following cases:
            (a)   Man-made ponds and lakes that are not part of the natural
drainage way that is classified in accordance with 15A NCAC 2B .0100 including
ponds and lakes created for animal watering, irrigation, or other agricultural
uses. (A pond or lake is part of a natural drainage way when it is fed by an
intermittent or perennial stream or when it has a direct discharge point to an
intermittent or perennial stream).
            (b)   Ephemeral streams
            (c)   The absence on the ground of a corresponding intermittent or
perennial stream, lake, reservoir, or pond.
            (d)   Ditches or other man-made water conveyances, other than
modified streams.
      (C)   General UTBs shall have zones as follows:
         General UTBs may have as many as three (3) regulatory zones. The
purpose of the different regulatory zones is to provide transition within
General UTBs from the most fragile areas to less fragile areas and to provide
some flexibility to Cary in administering of the UTBs. The regulatory zones
shall be:
         (1)   Cape Fear River Basin/Jordan Watershed
            (a)   UTBs established pursuant to Section 14.6.2(A)(1)(a) shall
have three (3) zones:
               1.   Zone One shall consist of a stable, vegetated area that is
undisturbed except for uses provided in subsection
14.6.5 and
Table 14.6-2. The locations of Zone One shall be as follows: For intermittent
and perennial streams, Zone One shall begin at the top of bank and extend
landward a distance of thirty (30) feet on all sides of the surface water,
measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to a vertical line marking the
top of the bank. For ponds, lakes and reservoirs located within a natural
drainage way. Zone One shall begin at the normal water level and extend
landward a distance of thirty (30) feet, measured horizontally on a line
perpendicular to a vertical line marking the normal water level.
               2.   Zone Two shall consist of a stable, vegetated area that is
undisturbed except for uses provided in subsection
14.6.5 and
Table 14.6-2. Zone Two shall begin at the outer edge of Zone One and extend
landward twenty (20) feet as measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to
the surface water. The combined width of Zones One and Two shall be fifty (50)
feet on all sides of the surface water.
               3.   Zone Three shall consist of a stable, vegetated area that
is undisturbed except for uses provided for in subsection
14.6.5 and
Table 14.6-2. Zone Three shall begin at the outer edge of Zone Two and extend
landward fifty (50) feet as measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to
the surface water. The combined width of Zones One, Two and Three shall be one
hundred (100) feet on all sides of the surface water.
            (b)   UTBs established pursuant to Section 14.6.2(A)(1)(b) shall
have two (2) zones:
               1.   Zone One shall consist of a stable, vegetated area that is
undisturbed except for uses provided in subsection
14.6.5 and
Table 14.6-2. The locations of Zone One shall be as follows: For intermittent
and perennial streams, Zone One shall begin at the top of bank and extend
landward a distance of thirty (30) feet on all sides of the surface water,
measured horizontally on a line perpendicular to a vertical line marking the
top of the bank. For ponds, lakes and reservoirs located within a natural
drainage way, Zone One shall begin at the normal water level and extend
landward a distance of thirty (30) feet, measured horizontally on a line
perpendicular to a vertical line marking the normal water level.
               2.   Zone Two shall consist of a stable, vegetated area that is
undisturbed except for uses provided in subsection
14.6.5 and
Table 14.6-2. Grading and revegetating in Zone Two is allowed provided that the
health of the vegetation in Zone One is not compromised. Zone Two shall begin
at the outer edge of Zone One and extend landward twenty (20) feet as measured
horizontally on a line perpendicular to the surface water. The combined width
of Zones One and Two shall be fifty (50) feet on all sides of the surface
water.
            (c)   Diffuse Flow Requirement: Diffuse flow of runoff shall be
maintained in the UTBs established pursuant to Section 14.6.2(A) by dispersing
concentrated flow prior to its entry into the UTB and reestablishing vegetation
as follows:
               1.   Concentrated runoff from new ditches or man-made
conveyances shall be converted to diffuse flow at non-erosive velocities before
the runoff enters the UTB.
               2.   Periodic corrective action to restore diffuse flow shall be
taken as necessary and shall be designed to impede the formation of gullies;
and
               3.   No new stormwater conveyances are allowed through the UTBs
except for those specified in subsection
14.6.5 and
Table 14.6-2 addressing stormwater management ponds, drainage ditches, roadside
ditches, and stormwater conveyances.
         (2)   Neuse River Basin
            General UTBs established pursuant to Section 14.6.2(A)(2) shall
have one (1) zone: Zone Three. Zone Three shall consist of a stable, vegetated
area that is undisturbed except for uses provided for in subsection
14.6.5 and
Table 14.6-2. Zone Three shall begin at the outer edge of the Neuse Riparian
Buffer and extend landward fifty (50) feet as measured horizontally on a line
perpendicular to the surface water. The combined width of the Neuse Riparian
Buffer and Zone Three shall be one hundred (100) feet on all sides of the
surface water.
   14.6.3   Establishing Specialized Urban Transition Buffers
      (A)   Property within Watershed Protection Overlay
         In addition to the General UTBs established above, Specialized UTBs
are required by Cary's Watershed Protection Overlay (Section
4.4.6). Specialized UTBs shall overlay General UTBs, as opposed to being
situated adjacent to General UTBs. The Specialized UTBs are as follows:
         (1)   Low Density Development Option
            In the event the Landowner elects to develop his property under the
Low Density Development Option, as provided in Section
4.4.6(F)(1), a Specialized UTB thirty (30) feet wide shall be established
adjacent to all perennial surface waters including perennial streams, lakes,
reservoirs, and ponds as approximately indicated on the most recent versions of
USGS 1:24,000 scale {'{'}seven and one-half (7.5) minute{'}'} quadrangle
topographic maps prepared by the United States Geological Survey (USGS).
         (2)   High Density Development Option
            In the event the Landowner elects to develop his property under the
High Density Development Option, as provided in Section
4.4.6(F)(2), a Specialized UTB one hundred feet (100') wide shall be
established adjacent to all perennial surface waters including perennial
streams, lakes, reservoirs and ponds as approximately indicated on the most
recent versions of USGS 1:24,000 scale {'{'}seven and one-half (7.5) minute
{'}'} quadrangle topographic maps prepared by the United States Geological
Survey (USGS).
      (B)   Uses Allowed Within Specialized UTBs
         The uses allowed within Specialized UTBs are described in
Table 14.6-2.
      (C)   Measurement of Specialized UTBs
         Specialized UTBs shall be measured from a point perpendicular to the
bank of the perennial waters.
   14.6.4   Overlap or Conflict between Urban Transition Buffers established by
Cary and buffers established by State of North Carolina or Federal Regulations
      (A)   In the event of an overlap or conflict between a General UTB and a
Specialized UTB, the more restrictive buffer shall govern. It is the intent of
Cary that General UTBs shall provide the minimum urban transition buffer for
all properties located in Cary's zoning jurisdiction.
      (B)   In the event of an overlap or conflict between any buffer
established by this Section and any buffer or other requirement established by
another law, rule or regulation administered by the State of North Carolina or
the Federal Government, the more restrictive law, rule or regulation shall
govern.
      
Table 14.6-1 below graphically depicts Cary's UTBs and their zones.
TABLE 14.6-1 CARY GENERAL AND SPECIALIZED UTBs
Type of Buffers  General UTBs         Watershed Overlay Buffers
Zones of Buffers ZONE 1 ZONE 2 ZONE 3 Low Density Option High Density Option
TABLE 14.6-1 CARY GENERAL AND SPECIALIZED UTBs
Type of Buffers            General UTBs         Watershed Overlay Buffers
Zones of Buffers           ZONE 1 ZONE 2 ZONE 3 Low Density Option High Density
                                                                   Option
Cape Fear River Basin
Not in Watershed overlay district
   Shown on USGS map    Yes    Yes    Yes    N/A                N/A
   Shown on county soil Yes    Yes    No     N/A                N/A
map
In watershed overlay district
   Shown on USGS map    Yes    Yes    Yes    Yes[1]             Yes[2]
   Shown on county soil Yes    Yes    No     N/A                N/A
map
Neuse River Basin
Not in Watershed overlay district
   Shown on USGS map    No[3]  No[3]  Yes    N/A                N/A
   Shown on county soil No[3]  No[3]  No     N/A                N/A
map
In watershed overlay district
   Shown on USGS map    No[3]  No[3]  Yes    Yes[1]             Yes[2]
   Shown on county soil No[3]  No[3]  No     No                 No
map
 
[1]   Minimum thirty (30) foot wide vegetative buffer and other regulations
apply. See Section 4.4.6 of the LDO.
[2]   Minimum one hundred (100) foot wide vegetative buffer and other
regulations apply. See Section 4.4.6 of the LDO.
[3]   Regulated by State of North Carolina.
   14.6.5   Activities Prohibited and Permitted in Urban Transition Buffers
      (A)   Any activity which disturbs the soil or vegetation within any Urban
Transition Buffer is prohibited unless expressly permitted by this Section
14.6.5 and
Table 14.6-2.
Table 14.6-2 describes the uses permitted in each UTB established by this
Section 14.6.5.
      (B)   Uses designated as exempt, allowable, allowable with mitigation and
prohibited shall have the following requirements:
         (1)   EXEMPT
            Uses designated as exempt are allowed within the Urban Transition
Buffer provided that they adhere to the limitations of the activity as defined
in subsection 14.6.5(A) and
Table 14.6-2 below. Exempt uses shall be designed, constructed, and maintained
to minimize soil disturbance and to provide the maximum water quality
protection practicable including construction, monitoring, and maintenance
activities.
         (2)   ALLOWABLE
            Uses designated as allowable may proceed within the Urban
Transition Buffer provided that there are no practical alternatives to the
requested use as determined pursuant to Section
14.6.9. This includes construction, monitoring, and maintenance activities.
These uses require written authorization from Cary.
         (3)   ALLOWABLE WITH MITIGATION
            Uses designated as allowable with mitigation may proceed within the
Urban Transition Buffer provided that there are no practical alternatives to
the requested use as determined pursuant to Section
14.6.9 and mitigation approval has been obtained pursuant to Section
14.6.12. These uses require written authorization from Cary.
         (4)   PROHIBITED
            Uses designated as prohibited or not designated as exempt,
allowable, or allowable with mitigation, may not proceed within the Urban
Transition Buffer unless a variance is granted pursuant to this Section 14.6.
TABLE 14.6-2 CARY GENERAL AND SPECIALIZED UTBs
Activity Exempt Allowable Allowable with Mitigation Prohibited
TABLE 14.6-2 CARY GENERAL AND SPECIALIZED UTBs
                                                                                                Allowable
Activity                                                                       Exempt Allowable with       Prohibited
                                                                                                Mitigation
Access Trails: Pedestrian access trails leading to the surface water, docks, fishing piers, boat ramps and other
water dependent activities
   Pedestrian Access trails that are restricted to the minimum width
practicable and do not exceed four (4) feet in width of buffer disturbance,    X                          
and provided that installation and use does not result in the removal of trees
as defined in this Ordinance and no impervious surface is added to the UTB
   Pedestrian Access trails that exceed four (4) feet in width of buffer
disturbance, the installation or use results in the removal of trees as              X                    
defined in this Ordinance or impervious surface is added to the UTB
Airport facilities:
   Airport facilities that impact equal to or less than one hundred and fift      X                    
(150) linear feet of UTB
   Airport facilities that impact greater than one hundred and fifty (150)                 X           
linear feet of UTB
Activities necessary to comply with FAA requirements (e.g. radar uses or             X                    
landing strips)1
Archaeological activities                                                      X                          
Bridges                                                                              X                    
Canoe Access provided that installation and use does not result in the removal
of trees as defined in this Ordinance and no impervious surface is added to    X                          
the UTB
Dam Maintenance activities:
   Dam maintenance activities that do not cause additional buffer disturbance
beyond the footprint of the existing dam or those covered under the U.S. Army  X                          
Corps of Engineers Nationwide Permit No. 3
   Dam maintenance activities that do cause additional buffer disturbance
beyond the footprint of the existing dam or those covered under the U.S. Army        X                    
Corps of Engineers Nationwide Permit No. 3
Drainage ditches, roadside ditches, and stormwater conveyances through buffers:
   New stormwater flows to existing drainage ditches, roadside ditches, and
stormwater outfalls provided that flows do not alter or result in the need to  X                          
alter the conveyance and are managed to minimize the sediment, nutrients and
other pollution that convey to waterbodies
   Realignment of existing roadside drainage ditches retaining the design
dimensions, provided that no additional travel lanes are added, and the              X                    
minimum required roadway typical section is used based on traffic and safety
considerations
   New or altered drainage ditches, roadside ditches and stormwater outfalls
provided that a stormwater management facility is installed to control               X                    
nitrogen and attenuate flow before the conveyance discharges through the
buffer
   New drainage ditches, roadside ditches and stormwater conveyances
applicable to linear projects that do not provide stormwater management                       X           
facility due to topography constraints provided that other practicable BMPs
are employed.
   New drainage ditches, roadside ditches and stormwater outfalls that do no                         X
provide control for nitrogen before discharging into the UTB
   Excavation of the streambed in order to bring it to the same elevation as                         X
the invert of a ditch
Driveway crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this Ordinance:
   Driveway crossings on single-unit residential lots that disturb equal to Xr                         
less than twenty-five (25) linear feet of UTB
   Driveway crossings on single-unit residential lots that disturb greater        X                    
than twenty-five (25) linear feet of UTB
   In a subdivision that cumulatively disturb equal to or less than one           X                    
hundred and fifty (150) linear feet of UTB
   In a subdivision that cumulatively disturb greater than one hundred and                 X           
fifty (150) linear feet of UTB
Fences provided that disturbance is minimized, and installation does not       X                          
result in removal of forest vegetation
Fences provided that disturbance is minimized, and installation does result in       X                    
removal of trees as defined in this Ordinance
Forest harvesting [refer to 15A NCAC 02B.0233 (11) and 15A NCAC 02B .0267(14)]                           
Fertilizer application:
   One-time fertilizer application to establish re-planted vegetation       X                          
   Ongoing fertilizer application                                                                    X
Grading and revegetation in Zone 2 and 3 only provided that diffuse flow and
the health of existing vegetation in Zone 1 is not compromised and disturbed         X                    
areas are stabilized
Greenway/hiking trails designed, constructed and maintained to maximize
nutrient removal and erosion protection, minimize adverse effects on aquatic         X                    
life and habitat and protect water quality to the maximum extent practical
Historic preservation                                                          X                          
Landfills as defined by G.S. 130A-290                                          X                          
Maintenance Access on modified natural streams: a grassed travel way on one
side of the water body when less impacting alternatives are not practical. The
width and specifications of the travel way shall be only that needed for             X                    
equipment access and operation. The travel way shall be located to maximize
stream shading.
Mining activities:
   Mining activities that are covered by the Mining Act provided that new UTBs
that meet the requirements of                                                        X                    
14.6.2(C)(1) of this Ordinance are established adjacent to the relocated
channels
   Mining activities that are not covered by the Mining Act OR where new UTBs
that meet the requirements of                                                                 X           
14.6.2(C)(1) of this Ordinance are not established adjacent to the relocated
channels
   Wastewater or mining dewatering wells with approved NPDES permit         X                          
Non-electric utility lines:
   Impacts other than perpendicular crossings in Zones 2 and 3 only[3]      X                          
   Impacts other than perpendicular crossings in Zone 1[3]                                 X           
Non-electric utility line perpendicular crossing of streams and other surface waters subject to this Ordinance:[3]
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb equal to or less than forty (40)
linear feet of UTB with a maintenance corridor equal to or less than ten (10)  X                          
feet in width
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb equal to or less than forty (40)
linear feet of UTB with a maintenance corridor greater than ten (10) feet in         X                    
width
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb greater than forty (40) linear feet
but equal to or less than one hundred and fifty (150) linear feet of UTB with        X                    
a maintenance corridor equal to or less than ten (10) feet in width
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb greater than forty (40) linear feet
but equal to or less than one hundred and fifty (150) linear feet of UTB with        X                    
a maintenance corridor greater than ten (10) feet in width
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb greater than one hundred and fifty                 X           
(150) linear feet of UTB
On-site sanitary sewage systems - new ones that use ground absorption                                   X
Overhead electric utility lines:
   Impacts other than perpendicular crossings in Zones 2 and 3 only[3]            X                    
   Impacts other than perpendicular crossings in Zone 1[1,2,3]                             X           
Overhead electric utility line perpendicular crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this Ordinance
[3]
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb equal to or less than one hundred anX                          
fifty (150) linear feet of UTB[1, 3]
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb greater than one hundred and fifty        X                    
(150) linear feet of UTB[1,2, 3]
Periodic maintenance of modified natural streams such as canals and a grassed
travel way on one (1) side of the surface water when alternative forms of            X                    
maintenance access are not practical
Piping of a stream under a permit issued by the US Army Corps of Engineers           X                    
Playground equipment:
   Playground equipment on single-unit residential lots provided that       X                          
installation and use does not result in removal of vegetation
   Playground equipment installed on lands other than single-unit residentia      X                    
lots or that requires removal of vegetation
Ponds created by impounding streams and not used as Stormwater Control Measures (SCM):
   New ponds provided that an UTB that meets the requirements of Section          X                    
14.6.2(C)(1) of this Ordinance is established adjacent to the pond
   New ponds where an UTB that meets the requirements of Section                           X           
14.6.2(C)(1) of this Ordinance is NOT established adjacent to the pond
Ponds: Drainage of a pond in a natural drainage way provided that a new
riparian buffer that meets the requirements of
14.6.2(A)(1),
14.6.2(C)(1)(c),                                                               X                          
14.6.2(B),
14.6.2(C)(1), 14.6.5,
14.6.8, and
Table 14.6-2 of this rule is established adjacent to the new channel
Protection of existing structures, facilities and streambanks when this              X                    
requires additional disturbance of the UTB or the stream channel
Railroad impacts other than crossings of streams and other surface waters                     X           
subject to this Ordinance
Railroad crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this Ordinance:
   Railroad crossings that impact equal to or less than forty (40) linear feXt                         
of UTB
   Railroad crossings that impact greater than forty (40) linear feet but         X                    
equal to or less than one hundred and fifty (150) feet of UTB
   Railroad crossings that impact greater than one hundred and fifty (150)                 X           
linear feet of UTB
Recreational and accessory structures in the UTB                                                        X
Removal of previous fill or debris provided that diffuse flow is maintained,   X                          
and any vegetation removed is restored
Road impacts other than crossings of streams and other surface waters subject                 X           
to this Ordinance
Road crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this Ordinance:
   Road crossings that impact equal to or less than forty (40) linear feet oX                          
UTB
   Road crossings that impact greater than forty (40) linear feet but equal       X                    
or less than one hundred and fifty (150) linear feet
   Road crossings that impact greater than one hundred and fifty (150) linea               X           
feet
Road Relocation: Road relocation of existing private access roads associated with public road projects where
necessary for public safety:
   Relocations that are less than or equal to twenty-five (25) linear feet o      X                    
UTB width
   Relocations that are more than twenty-five (25) linear feet of UTB width                X           
Scientific studies and stream gauging                                          X                          
Stormwater Control Measures:
   Wet detention, bioretention and constructed wetlands in Zone Two and Thre      X                    
if diffuse flow of discharge is provided
   Wet detention, bioretention and constructed wetlands in Zone One                        X           
Stream restoration                                                                   X                    
Streambank or shoreline stabilization                                                X                    
Temporary roads:
   Temporary roads that disturb less than or equal to twenty-five (25) linear
feet of UTB provided that vegetation is restored to preconstruction
topographic and hydrologic conditions immediately after construction is
complete and replanted immediately with comparable vegetation, except that     X                          
tree planting may occur during the dormant season; at the end of five (5)
years the restored UTB shall comply with the restoration criteria of Section
14.6.12 below
   Temporary roads that disturb greater than twenty-five (25) linear feet of
UTB provided that vegetation is restored to preconstruction topographic and
hydrologic conditions immediately after construction is complete and replanted
immediately with comparable vegetation, except that tree planting may occur          X                    
during the dormant season; at the end of five (5) years the restored UTB shall
comply with the restoration criteria of Section
14.6.12 below
   Temporary roads used for culvert installation or bridge construction or
replacement provided that restoration to preconstruction topographic and
hydrologic conditions immediately after construction is complete and replanted
immediately with comparable vegetation, except that tree planting may occur          X                    
during the dormant season; at the end of five (5) years the restored UTB shall
comply with the restoration criteria of Section
14.6.12 below
Temporary sediment and erosion control devices:
   In Zone 2 and 3 only provided that the vegetation in Zone 1 is not
compromised and that discharge is released as diffuse flow is restored to
preconstruction topographic and hydrologic conditions immediately after
construction is complete and replanted immediately with comparable vegetation, X                          
except that tree planting may occur during the dormant season; at the end of
five (5) years the restored UTB shall comply with the restoration criteria of
Section
14.6.12 below
   In Zones 1, 2, and 3 to control impacts associated with uses approved by
Cary or that have received a variance provided that sediment and erosion
control for upland areas is addressed to maximum extent practical outside the
UTB and restored to preconstruction topographic and hydrologic conditions
immediately after construction is complete and replanted immediately with            X                    
comparable vegetation, except that tree planting may occur during the dormant
season; at the end of five (5) years the restored UTB shall comply with the
restoration criteria of Section
14.6.12 below
   In-stream temporary erosion and sediment control measures for work within a
stream channel that is authorized under Sections 401 and 404 of the Federal    X                          
Water Pollution Control Act
   In-stream temporary erosion and sediment control measures for work within      X                    
stream channel
Underground electric utility lines:
   Impacts other than perpendicular crossings in Zone 2 and Zone 3[3]       X                          
   Impacts other than perpendicular crossings in Zone 1[3,4]                X                          
Underground electric utility line perpendicular crossings of streams and other surface waters subject to this
Ordinance:[3]
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb less than or equal to forty (40)    X                          
linear feet of UTB[3,4]
   Perpendicular crossings that disturb greater than forty (40) linear feet       X                    
UTB[3,4]
Vegetation management:
   Emergency fire control measures provided that topography is restored     X                          
   Periodic mowing and harvesting of plant products in Zone 2 and 3 only    X                          
   Planting vegetation to enhance the UTB                                   X                          
   Pruning forest vegetation provided that the health and function of the   X                          
forest vegetation is not compromised
   Removal of individual trees which are in danger of causing damage to
dwellings, other structures or human life or are imminently endangering        X                          
stability of the streambank
   Removal of individual trees which are dead, diseased or damaged          X                          
   Removal of poison ivy                                                    X                          
   Removal of invasive exotic vegetation as defined in: Smith, Cherri L. 1998.
Exotic Plant Guidelines. Department of Environment and Natural Resources.      X                          
Division of Parks and Recreation. Raleigh, NC. Guideline #30
Vehicular access roads leading to water-dependent structures as defined in 15A
NCAC 02B .0202, provided they do not cross the surface water and have minimum        X                    
practicable width not exceeding ten (10) feet and where installation and use
result in disturbance of UTB
Water-dependent structures as defined in 15A NCAC 02B .0202 where the                X                    
installation and use result in the disturbance of UTB
Water supply reservoirs:
   New reservoirs provided that an UTB that meets the requirements of             X                    
14.6.2(C)(1) of this Ordinance is established adjacent to the reservoir
   New reservoirs where an UTB that meets the requirements of                              X           
14.6.2(C)(1) of this Ordinance is NOT established adjacent to the reservoir
Wells on single-unit residential lots                                          X                          
All other wells                                                                      X                    
Wetland, stream and buffer restoration that results in impacts to the UTB
   Wetland, stream and buffer restoration that requires Division approval foX                          
the use of a 401 Water Quality Certification
   Wetland, stream and buffer restoration that does not require approval for      X                    
the use of a 401 Water Quality Certification
   Wildlife passage structures                                                    X                    
Wooden slatted decks and associated steps in the UTB, provided the use meets the requirements of Sections
14.6.4 and 14.6.5 of this Ordinance
Deck at least eight (8) feet in height and no vegetation removed                     X                    
Deck less than eight (8) feet in height or vegetation removed                                 X           
 
[1] Provided that, in Zone 1, all of the following WQBMPs for overhead utility
lines are used. If all of these WQBMPs are not used, then the overhead utility
lines shall require a no practical alternatives evaluation by Cary (Cape Fear
Basin/Jordan Watershed) or Division of Water Resources (Neuse River Basin).
   A minimum zone of ten (10) feet wide immediately adjacent to the water body
shall be managed such that only vegetation that poses a hazard or has the
potential to grow tall enough to interfere with the line is removed.
   Woody vegetation shall be cleared by hand. No land grubbing or grading is
allowed.
   Vegetation root systems shall be left intact to maintain the integrity of the
soil. Stumps shall remain where trees are cut. Rip rap shall not be used unless
it is necessary to stabilize a tower.
   No fertilizer shall be used other than a one (1) time application to re-
establish vegetation.
   Construction activities shall minimize the removal of woody vegetation, the
extent of the disturbed area, and the time in which areas remain in a disturbed
state.
   Active measures shall be taken after construction and during routine
maintenance to ensure diffuse flow of stormwater through the buffer.
   In wetlands, mats shall be utilized to minimize soil disturbance.
[2] Provided that poles or towers shall not be installed within ten (10) feet of
a water body unless Cary (Cape Fear Basin/Jordan Watershed) or Division of Water
Resources (Neuse River Basin) completes a no practical alternatives evaluation.
[3] Perpendicular crossings are those that intersect the surface water at an
angle between 75 degrees and 105 degrees.
[4] Provided that, in Zone 1, all of the following WQBMPs for underground utility
lines are used. If all of these WQBMPs are not used then the underground utility
line shall require a no practical alternatives evaluation by Cary (Cape Fear
Basin/Jordan Watershed) or Division of Water Resources (Neuse River Basin).
   Woody vegetation shall be cleared by hand. No land grubbing or grading is
allowed.
   Vegetative root systems shall be left intact to maintain the integrity of the
soil. Stumps shall remain, except in the trench, where trees are cut.
   Underground cables shall be installed by vibratory plow or trenching.
   The trench shall be backfilled with the excavated soil material immediately
following cable installation. No fertilizer shall be used other than a one (1)
time application to re-establish vegetation.
   Construction activities shall minimize the removal of woody vegetation, the
extent of the disturbed area, and the time in which areas remain in a disturbed
state.
   Active measures shall be taken after construction and during routine
maintenance to ensure diffuse flow of stormwater through the buffer.
   In wetlands, mats shall be utilized to minimize soil disturbance.
 
   14.6.6   Description of Buffers on Development Plans
      All UTBs shall be shown on all development plans and subdivision plats
submitted for approval within Cary's planning jurisdiction. In addition to
UTBs, State of North Carolina and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers' jurisdictional
wetlands waters and buffers shall be shown on the inventory of natural
resources required as part of development plan approval.
   14.6.7   Exclusion of Urban Transition Buffer and Riparian Buffer from Lots
      Generally, no single-unit residential lots may encroach upon any required
or established riparian buffer or UTB, except that single-unit residential lots
platted prior to July 27, 2000, shall be exempt from Zone Three of the Urban
Transition Buffer requirements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, single-unit
residential lots platted after July 27, 2000, may encroach upon a required or
established riparian buffer or UTB when all of the following conditions are
met:
      (A)   The total area of a parcel under single ownership is not greater
than five (5) acres and the Landowner establishes that he/she is unable to use
any cluster development option that may be available;
      (B)   The proposed subdivision consists of fewer than ten (10) lots and
has no homeowners association;
      (C)   There is no other reason for the formation of a homeowner’s
association (e.g., covenant, other common areas, common facilities, engineered
stormwater control structures);
      (D)   The area of the UTB or riparian buffer is subject to a permanent
conservation easement or other legal instrument dedicated to a not-for-profit
conservation entity approved by Cary. All documents required for such a
conveyance to a not-for-profit conservation entity shall be provided to and
approved by Cary, in writing on such instruments, prior to recording any plat
showing property proposed to be conveyed.
   14.6.8   Exemption when Existing Uses are Present and Ongoing
      This Section 14.6 shall not apply to uses that are existing and ongoing;
however, this Section 14.6 shall apply at the time an existing, ongoing use is
changed to another use. Change of use shall involve the initiation of any
activity that does not meet either of the following criteria for existing,
ongoing activity:
      (A)   It was present within the UTB as of July 27, 2000 and has continued
to exist since that time. Existing uses shall include agriculture, buildings,
industrial facilities, commercial areas, transportation facilities, maintained
lawns, utility lines and on-site sanitary sewage systems any of which involve
either specific, periodic management of vegetation or displacement of
vegetation by use is exempt from this Section. Change of ownership through
purchase or inheritance is not a change of use. Activities necessary to
maintain uses are allowed provided that the site remains similarly vegetated,
no impervious surface is added within fifty (50) feet of the surface water
where it did not previously exist as of July 27, 2000, and existing diffuse
flow is maintained.
      (B)   Projects or proposed development that are determined by Cary to
meet at least one (1) of the following criteria:
         (1)   Project requires a 401 Certification/404 Permit, and these were
issued prior to July 27, 2000.
         (2)   Projects that require a state permit, such as landfills, NPDES
wastewater discharges, land application of residuals and road construction
activities, have begun construction or are under contract to begin construction
and received all required state permits and certifications prior to July 27,
2000.
         (3)   Projects that are being reviewed through the Clean Water Act
Section 404/National Environmental Policy Act Merger 01 Process (published by
the US Army Corps of Engineers and Federal Highway Administration, 2003) or its
immediate successor if a Finding of No Significant Impact has been issued for
the project and the project has written approval of Cary prior to July 27,
2000; or
         (4)   Projects that are not required to be reviewed by the Clean Water
Act Section 404/National Environmental Policy Act Merger 01 Process (published
by the US Army Corps of Engineers and Federal Highway Administration, 2003) or
its immediate successor if a Finding of No Significant Impact has been issued
for the project and the project has written approval of Cary prior to July 27,
2000; or
   14.6.9   Determinations of No Practical Alternatives/Request for
Authorization Certificate
      (A)   Persons who wish to undertake uses designated as allowable or
allowable with mitigation shall submit a request for a "no practical
alternatives" determination to Cary. The applicant shall certify that the
project meets all the following criteria for finding "no practical
alternatives."
         (1)   The basic project purpose cannot be practically accomplished in
a manner that would better minimize disturbance, preserve aquatic life and
habitat, and protect water quality;
         (2)   The use cannot practically be reduced in size or density,
reconfigured, or redesigned to better minimize disturbance, preserve aquatic
life and habitat, and protect water quality; and
         (3)   Best management practices shall be used if necessary to minimize
disturbance, preserve aquatic life and habitat, and protect water quality.
      (B)   The applicant shall also submit at least the following information
in support of its assertion of "no practical alternatives":
         (1)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
         (2)   The nature of the activity to be conducted by the applicant;
         (3)   The location of the activity, including the jurisdiction;
         (4)   A map of sufficient detail to accurately delineate the
boundaries of the land to be utilized in carrying out the activity, the
location and dimensions of any disturbance in UTBs associated with the
activity, and the extent of UTBs on the land;
         (5)   An explanation of why this plan for the activity cannot be
practically accomplished, reduced or reconfigured to better minimize
disturbance to the UTB, preserve aquatic life and habitat and protect water
quality; and
         (6)   Plans for any best management practices proposed to be used to
control the impacts associated with the activity.
      (C)   Within sixty (60) days of a complete submission, Cary shall review
the entire project and make a finding of fact as to whether the criteria of
this Section 14.6.9 have been met. A finding of "no practical alternatives"
shall result in issuance of an Authorization Certificate. Failure to act within
sixty (60) days shall be construed as a finding of "no practical alternatives"
and an Authorization Certificate shall be issued to the applicant unless one of
the following occurs:
         (1)   The applicant agrees, in writing, to a longer period;
         (2)   Cary determines that the applicant has failed to furnish
requested information necessary to Cary's decision;
         (3)   The final decision is to be made pursuant to a public hearing;
or
         (4)   The applicant refuses access to its records or premises for the
purpose of gathering information necessary to Cary's decision.
         (5)   Cary may attach conditions to the Authorization Certificate that
support the purpose, spirit and intent of this Section 14.6.
         (6)   Any appeals of determinations regarding Authorization
Certificates for activities in Zones One and Two shall be referred to the
Stormwater Manager of the Town Managers Office, or its successor. The
Stormwater Manager’s decision is subject to review as provided in G.S. Chapter
150B, Articles 3 and 4. Any appeals of determinations regarding Authorization
Certificates for activities taking place only in Zone Three shall be pursuant
to Sections
3.21 and
11.2 of this Ordinance.
   14.6.10   Modification of Urban Transition Buffers as part of Approving
Development Plans
      UTBs are part of Cary's overall zoning, land subdivision and land use
regulations. Cary has collected these regulations together in Cary's Land
Development Ordinance (LDO). UTBs are intended to assist Cary in accomplishing
the broad and important purposes of the LDO stated in
1.3 of the LDO as well as the specific purposes stated in Sections
1.3.1-
1.3.12 and
14.6.1. In any specific development plan, Cary’s reviews the entire proposed
development and determines whether the proposed development in its entirety
satisfies the LDO. Cary recognizes that UTBs will affect different property and
projects differently and that all circumstances or applications of UTBs cannot
be foreseen. Therefore, Cary has established a process by which the width of
Zone 3 of the UTB may be modified in certain limited circumstances based upon
review and approval of an applicant's application for modification which shall
include the overall development plan. Any modification granted shall be
conditioned upon the implementation of the related development plan and shall
be conditioned upon the applicant providing mitigation as set forth below.
      (A)   Procedures for Requesting Modifications to Zone Three
         The Zoning Board of Adjustment, after receiving comment from various
Cary departments which review the proposed development plan pursuant to the
LDO, may reduce the total area of Zone Three after establishing the following
at a quasi-judicial hearing:
         (1)   The reduction will have a minimal impact upon the purposes of
the General UTBs stated in Section
14.6.1 and is consistent with general purposes of the LDO stated in Section
1.3; and
         (2)   The mitigation of impacts offered by the applicant as part of
the proposed development plan significantly outweighs the impacts of the
reduction to the General UTBs proposed by the applicant; and
         (3)   The impact of the reduction in the General UTB is balanced by
mitigation, as required below:
            (a)   Mitigation on a 1:1 ratio for restoration of a degraded
buffer or for protection of ephemeral streams contiguous to protected streams;
or
            (b)   Mitigation on a 3:1 ratio for preservation of an existing
buffer; or
            (c)   Mitigation on a 10:1 ratio for preservation of open space.
         (4)   The requirements of Section
14.6.12(G)(3), (4), (5), (6) and (7) shall apply to any mitigation required by
Section 14.6.10(A)(3) above. In addition, the applicant shall submit a
restoration or enhancement plan meeting the requirements of Section
14.6.12(G)(5) together with its request for modification.
         (5)   The preferred mitigation area is off-site. However, in some
cases mitigation requirements may be met by protecting land on-site which would
otherwise not be protected through another avenue such as buffer, wetlands,
floodplain, or open space requirements.
      (B)   In addition to the mitigation required and the considerations
provided above, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may consider other factors such
as the following:
         (1)   Whether a substantial conflict exists between the General UTBs
and other provisions and provisions of the LDO (e.g., the appropriate layout of
streets in a proposed development conflicts with the location of the General
UTBs);
         (2)   Whether approvals of other governmental agencies impede the
effectiveness of the General UTBs or otherwise impact the layout or development
of the proposed development; or
         (3)   Any other information which may be relevant to the Zoning Board
of Adjustment determination that the development plan otherwise satisfies the
purposes and goals of the LDO.
      (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the applicant provides
written evidence that the State of North Carolina has granted the applicant a
variance to the riparian buffer required by the State of North Carolina, or if
Cary has granted a minor variance as described below in section
14.6.11, the Planning Director shall grant a modification to the UTBs
applicable to such applicant sufficient to permit such applicant to utilize the
State variance granted.
   14.6.11   Variances
      (A)   Except where General UTBs are modified pursuant to Section
14.6.10 above, General UTBs shall not be modified or varied unless the
applicant is granted a variance pursuant to this Section 14.6.11.
      (B)   Requirements for Variances
         Persons who wish to undertake prohibited uses may pursue a variance.
Cary may grant minor variances. For major variances, Cary shall prepare
preliminary findings and submit them to the Stormwater Division, or its
successor for approval by the Environmental Management Commission. The variance
request procedure shall be as follows:
         (1)   For any variance request, Cary shall make a finding of fact as
to whether there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships that
prevent compliance with the UTB requirements. A finding of practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships shall require that the following
conditions are met:
            (a)   If the applicant complies with the provisions of this
Ordinance, he/she can secure no reasonable return from, nor make reasonable use
of, his/her property. Merely proving that the variance would permit a greater
profit from the property shall not be considered adequate justification for a
variance. Moreover, Cary shall consider whether the variance is the minimum
possible deviation from the terms of this Section 14.6 that shall make
reasonable use of the property possible;
            (b)   The hardship results from application of this Section 14.6 to
the property rather than from other factors such as deed restrictions or other
hardship;
            (c)   The hardship is due to the physical nature of the applicant's
property, such as its size, shape, or topography, such that compliance with
provisions of this Section 14.6 would not allow reasonable use of the property;
            (d)   The applicant did not cause the hardship by knowingly or
unknowingly violating this Section 14.6;
            (e)   The applicant did not purchase the property after July 14,
2011 (the effective date of this Ordinance), and then request a variance; and
            (f)   The hardship is rare or unique to the applicant's property.
            (g)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of the State's riparian buffer protection requirements and this
Ordinance and preserves its spirit; and
            (h)   In granting the variance, the public safety and welfare have
been assured, water quality has been protected, and substantial justice has
been done.
      (C)   Minor Variances
         A minor variance request pertains to activities that will impact Zone
Two of the UTB. Minor variance requests shall be reviewed and approved based on
the criteria in Section 14.6.11(B). Cary may attach conditions to the variance
approval that support the purpose, spirit, and intent of the UTB program.
Request for appeals to decisions made by Cary shall be made in writing to the
Director of Water Quality, 401 Oversight Express Permitting Unit, or its
successor. The Directors decision is subject to review as provided in G.S.
Chapter 150B, Articles 3 and 4.
      (D)   Major Variances
         A major variance request pertains to activities that will impact any
portion of Zone One or any portion of both Zones One and Two of UTB. If Cary
has determined that a major variance request meets the requirements in Section
14.6.11(B), then it shall prepare a preliminary finding and submit it to the NC
Environmental Management Commission c/o the Division of Water Resources, 401
Oversight Express Permitting Unit, or its successor, for approval. Within
ninety (90) days after receipt by Cary, the Commission shall review preliminary
findings on major variance requests and take one (1) of the following actions:
approve, approve with conditions and stipulations, or deny the request. Appeals
from a Commission decision on a major variance request are made on judicial
review to Superior Court.
      (E)   Any use allowed by a variance which requires mitigation as a
condition of variance approval shall not be undertaken until a Mitigation
Approval is issued pursuant to Section
14.6.12.
   14.6.12   Mitigation
      (A)   This item shall apply to persons who wish to impact a UTB when one
(1) of the following applies:
         (1)   A person has received an Authorization Certificate pursuant to
Section
14.6.9 for a proposed use that is designated as "allowable with mitigation"; or
         (2)   A person has received a variance pursuant to Section
14.6.11 and is required to perform mitigation as a condition of a variance
approval; or
         (3)   A person has requested a modification pursuant to Section
14.6.10.
      (B)   Issuance of the Mitigation Approval
         Cary shall issue a mitigation approval upon determining that a
proposal meets the requirements set out in this Ordinance. The approval shall
identify at a minimum the option chosen, the required and proposed areas, and
either the mitigation location or the offset payment amount as applicable.
      (C)   Options for Meeting the Mitigation Requirement
         The mitigation requirement may be met through one (1) of the following
options:
         (1)   Payment of a mitigation fee pursuant to 15A NCAC 2B .0269 for
impacts to Zone 1 and Zone 2 of the UTB only;
         (2)   Donation of real property or of an interest in real property
pursuant to Section 14.6.12(F); or
         (3)   Restoration or enhancement of a non-forested riparian buffer
pursuant to the requirements of Section 14.6.12(G).
         (4)   Other alternative buffer mitigation options for impacts to the
UTB as approved by the Town. Other alternative riparian buffer mitigation
options not specified within this Section may be submitted to the Town for
review. Any proposal submitted under this Section shall provide documentation
or calculations to demonstrate that the proposed alternative mitigation option
removes an equal or greater annual mass load of nutrients to surface waters as
a riparian buffer.
      (D)   The Area of Mitigation
         Cary shall determine the required area of mitigation, which shall
apply to all mitigation options identified in Section
14.6.11(C) and as further specified in the requirements for each option set out
in this Section, according to the following:
         (1)   The impacts in square feet to each zone of the UTB shall be
determined by Cary by adding the following:
            (a)   The area of the footprint of the use causing the impact to
the UTB;
            (b)   The area of the boundary of any clearing and grading
activities within the UTB necessary to accommodate the use; and
            (c)   The area of any ongoing maintenance corridors within the UTB
associated with the use.
         (2)   The required area of mitigation shall be determined by applying
the following multipliers to the impacts determined in Section
14.6.11 (D) of this Ordinance to each zone of the UTB:
            (a)   Impacts to Zone One of the UTB shall be multiplied by three
(3);
            (b)   Impacts to Zone Two of the UTB shall be multiplied by one and
one-half (1.5); and
            (c)   Impacts to wetlands within the UTB that are subject to
mitigation under 15A NCAC 2H .0506 shall comply with the mitigation ratios in
15A NCAC 2H .0506.
      (E)   The Location of Mitigation
         For any option chosen for impacts in the Jordan watershed, the
mitigation effort shall be located within the same subwatershed of the Jordan
watershed, as defined in 15A NCAC 02B.0262, and the same distance from the
Jordan Reservoir as the proposed impact, or closer to the Reservoir than the
impact, and as close to the location of the impact as feasible. Alternatively,
the applicant may propose mitigation anywhere within the same subwatershed of
the Jordan watershed, as defined in 15A NCAC 02B.0262, provided that the
mitigation proposal accounts for differences in delivery of nutrients to the
affected arm of Jordan Reservoir resulting from differences between the
locations of the impact and mitigation. Additional location requirements for
the property donation option are enumerated in Section 14.6.12(F)(3)(a).
      (F)   Donation of Property
         Persons who choose to satisfy their mitigation determination by
donating real property or an interest in real property shall meet the following
requirements:
         (1)   The donation of real property interests may be used to either
partially or fully satisfy the payment of a mitigation fee to the Riparian
Buffer Restoration Fund pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B .0272 for impacts to Zone 1
and Zone 2. The value of the property interest shall be determined by an
appraisal performed in accordance with Section
7.2.14(L)(6)(d)4. The donation shall satisfy the mitigation determination if
the appraised value of the donated property interest is equal to or greater
than the required fee. If the appraised value of the donated property interest
is less than the required fee calculated pursuant to 15A NCAC 02B .0272, the
applicant shall pay the remaining balance due.
         (2)   The donation of conservation easements to satisfy mitigation
requirements shall be accepted only if the conservation easement is granted in
perpetuity.
         (3)   Donation of real property interests to satisfy the mitigation
determination shall be accepted only if such property meets all of the
following requirements:
            (a)   In addition to the location requirements of Section 14.6.12
(E) for impacts in the Jordan watershed, the property shall be located within
an area that is identified as a priority for restoration in, or is otherwise
consistent with the goals of, the Basinwide Wetlands and Riparian Restoration
Plan for the Cape Fear River Basin developed by NC Division of Water Resources
pursuant to G.S. 143-214.10;
            (b)   The property shall contain riparian buffers not currently
protected by the State's riparian buffer protection program that are in need of
restoration as defined in Section 14.6.12 (G);
            (c)   The restorable riparian buffer on the property shall have a
minimum length of one thousand (1,000) linear feet along a surface water and a
minimum width of fifty (50) feet as measured horizontally on a line
perpendicular to the surface water;
            (d)   The size of the restorable riparian buffer on the property to
be donated shall equal or exceed the area of mitigation responsibility
determined pursuant to Section 14.6.12 (D):
            (e)   Restoration shall not require removal of man-made structures
or infrastructure;
            (f)   The property shall be suitable to be successfully restored,
based on existing hydrology, soils, and vegetation;
            (g)   The estimated cost of restoring and maintaining the property
shall not exceed the value of the property minus site identification and
transaction costs;
            (h)   The property shall not contain any building, structure,
object, site, or district that is listed in the National Register of Historic
Places established pursuant to Public Law 89-665, 16 U.S.C. 470 as amended;
            (i)   The property shall not contain any hazardous substance or
solid waste;
            (j)   The property shall not contain structures or materials that
present health or safety problems to the general public. If wells, septic,
water or sewer connections exist, they shall be filled, remediated or closed at
owner's expense in accordance with state and local health and safety
regulations;
            (k)   The property and adjacent properties shall not have prior,
current, and known future land use that would inhibit the function of the
restoration effort; and
            (l)   The property shall not have any encumbrances or conditions on
the transfer of the property interests.
         (4)   At the expense of the applicant or donor, the following
information shall be submitted to Cary with any proposal for donations or
dedications of interest in real property:
            (a)   Documentation that the property meets the requirements laid
out in Section 14.6.12(F)(3);
            (b)   US Geological Survey 1:24,000 {'{'}seven and one-half (7.5)
minute{'}'} scale topographic map, county tax map, USDA Natural Resource
Conservation Service County Soil Survey Map, and county road map showing the
location of the property to be donated along with information on existing site
conditions, vegetation types, presence of existing structures and easements;
            (c)   A current property survey performed in accordance with the
procedures of the North Carolina Department of Administration, State Property
Office as identified by the State Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors in "Standards of Practice for Land Surveying in
North Carolina." Copies may be obtained from the North Carolina State Board of
Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors, 3620 Six Forks
Road, Suite 300, Raleigh, North Carolina 27609;
            (d)   A current appraisal of the value of the property performed in
accordance with the procedures of the North Carolina Department of
Administration, State Property Office as identified by the Appraisal Board in
the "Uniform Standards of Professional North Carolina Appraisal Practice."
Copies may be obtained from the Appraisal Foundation, Publications Department,
P.O. Box 96734, Washington, D.C. 20090-6734; and
            (e)   A title certificate.
      (G)   Riparian Buffer Restoration or Enhancement
         Persons who choose to meet their mitigation requirement through
riparian buffer restoration or enhancement shall meet the following
requirements:
         (1)   The applicant may restore or enhance a non-forested riparian
buffer if either of the following applies:
            (a)   The area of riparian buffer restoration is equal to the
required area of mitigation determined pursuant to Section 14.6.12(D); or
            (b)   The area of riparian buffer enhancement is three (3) times
larger than the required area of mitigation determined pursuant to Section
14.6.12(D);
         (2)   The location of the riparian buffer restoration or enhancement
shall comply with the requirements in Section 14.6.12(E5);
         (3)   The riparian buffer restoration or enhancement site shall have a
minimum width of fifty (50) feet as measured horizontally on a line
perpendicular to the surface water;
         (4)   Enhancement and restoration shall both have the objective of
establishing a forested riparian buffer according to the requirements of this
Item. Enhancement shall be distinguished from restoration based on existing
buffer conditions. Where existing trees are sparse, defined as greater than or
equal to one hundred (100) trees per acre but less than two hundred (200) trees
per acre, a buffer may be enhanced. Where existing woody vegetation is absent,
defined as less than one hundred (100) trees per acre, a buffer may be
restored;
         (5)   The applicant shall submit a restoration or enhancement plan for
approval by Cary after receiving an Authorization Certificate for the proposed
use according to the requirements of Section
14.6.9; after receiving a variance for the proposed use according to the
requirements of Section 14.6.12; or prior to requesting a modification for the
proposed use according to the requirements of Section
14.6.10. The restoration or enhancement plan shall contain the following:
            (a)   A map of the proposed restoration or enhancement site;
            (b)   A vegetation plan. The vegetation plan shall include a
minimum of at least two (2) native hardwood tree species planted at a density
sufficient to provide three hundred twenty (320) trees per acre at maturity;
            (c)   A grading plan. The site shall be graded in a manner to
ensure diffuse flow through the riparian buffer;
            (d)   A fertilization plan; and
            (e)   A schedule for implementation.
         (6)   Within one (1) year after Cary has approved the restoration or
enhancement plan, the applicant shall present proof to Cary that the riparian
buffer has been restored or enhanced. If proof is not presented within this
timeframe, then the person shall be in violation of both the State's riparian
buffer protection program and this Section 14.6;
         (7)   The mitigation area shall be placed under a perpetual
conservation easement that will provide for protection of the property's
nutrient removal functions; and
         (8)   The applicant shall submit annual reports for a period of five
(5) years after the restoration or enhancement showing that the trees planted
have survived and that diffuse flow through the riparian buffer has been
maintained. The applicant shall replace trees that do not survive and restore
diffuse flow if needed during that five (5)-year period.
   14.6.13   Site Inspections
      Agents, officials, or other qualified persons authorized by Cary may
periodically inspect UTBs to ensure compliance with this ordinance. Notice of
the right to inspect shall be included in the letter of approval of each
variance and authorization certificate. Authorized agents, officials or other
qualified persons shall have the authority, upon presentation of proper
credentials, to enter and inspect at reasonable times any property, public or
private, for the purpose of investigating and inspecting the site of any UTB.
No person shall willfully resist, delay, or obstruct an authorized
representative, employee, or agent of Cary, while that person is inspecting or
attempting to inspect a UTB nor shall any person obstruct, hamper or interfere
with any such representative while in the process of carrying out their
official duties. Cary shall have the power to conduct such investigations as
deemed reasonably necessary to carry out the duties as prescribed in this
Section 14.6.
   14.6.14   Violations; Fines; Enforcement
      (A)   This Section 14.6 shall be enforced by the Town Manager. Any person
who fails to comply with any provision of this Section 14.6 shall be in
violation of this Ordinance for each occurrence or non-compliance. The
disturbance or damage of vegetation within the UTB shall constitute a violation
of this Ordinance. For purposes of this Section 14.6, "disturbance" shall be
defined as any action that results in injury or harm to required trees,
shrubbery, or other vegetation. The owner(s) of the property which term
includes their agents, heirs, and assigns, shall be fined and shall replace the
disturbed or damaged vegetation as set forth in subsections 14.6.14(B) and
14.6.14(C). In addition, Cary may assess civil penalties in accordance with
Chapter 11 of the LDO. Each day that the violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (B)   The area disturbed or damaged shall be revegetated to re-establish
the natural landscape. The person to whom a notice of violation is issued must
submit a vegetation plan which shall include a minimum of at least two (2)
native hardwood tree species planted at a density sufficient to provide three
hundred twenty (320) trees per acre at maturity. In addition, any tree with a
dbh of at least six (6) inches that is damaged or removed shall be replaced
with one (1) or more trees that have a caliper of at least two (2) inches and a
cumulative dbh equal to or greater than the original tree.
      (C)   A fine of between two dollars ($2.00) and four dollars ($4.00) for
every square foot area used by the disturbed or damaged vegetation within the
UTB shall be imposed. In determining the amount of the fine, the Town Manager
shall consider the degree and extent of harm caused by the violation, the cost
of rectifying the damage, and whether the violation was committed willfully.
Fines imposed pursuant to this subsection may be appealed pursuant to Section
11.2.2(D).
   14.6.15   Delegation of Authority
      Any act authorized by this Section
14.2.2 to be carried out by or at the direction of Cary may be carried out by
the Town Manager or designee.
   14.6.16   Definitions
      For the purpose of Section 14.6, these terms shall be defined as follows:
      “Access Trails" means pedestrian trails constructed of pervious or
impervious surfaces and related structures to access a surface water, including
boardwalks, steps, rails, and signage.
      "Airport Facilities" means all properties, facilities, buildings,
structures, and activities that satisfy or otherwise fall within the scope of
one (1) or more of the definitions or uses of the words or phrases "air
navigation facility" , "airport", or "airport protection privileges" under G.S.
63-1; the definition of "aeronautical facilities" in G.S. 63-79(1); the phrase
"airport facilities" as used in G.S. 159-48(b)(1); and the phrase "aeronautical
facilities" as defined in G.S. 159-81 and G.S. 159-97; and the phrase "airport
facilities and improvements" as used in Article V, Section 13, of the North
Carolina Constitution, which shall include, without limitation, any and all of
the following: airports, airport maintenance facilities, clear zones, drainage
ditches, fields, hangars, landing lighting, airport and airport-related
offices, parking facilities, related navigational and signal systems, runways,
stormwater outfalls, terminals, terminal shops, and all appurtenant areas used
or suitable for airport buildings or other airport facilities, and all
appurtenant rights-of-way; restricted landing areas; any structures,
mechanisms, lights, beacons, marks, communicating systems, or other
instrumentalities or devices used or useful as an aid, or constituting an
advantage or convenience to the safe taking off, navigation, and landing of
aircraft, or the safe and efficient operation and maintenance of an airport or
restricted landing area; easements through, or interests in, air space over
land or water, interests in airport hazards outside boundaries of airports or
restricted landing areas, and other protection privileges, the acquisition or
control of which is necessary to ensure safe approaches to the landing areas of
airports and restricted landing areas, and the safe and efficient operation
thereof and any combination of any or all of such facilities. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the following shall not be included in the definition of
"airport facilities":
      (1)   Satellite parking facilities
      (2)   Retail and commercial development outside of the terminal area,
such as rental car facilities; and
      (3)   Other secondary development, such as hotels, industrial facilities,
free-standing offices and other similar buildings, so long as these facilities
are not directly associated with the operation of the airport, and are not
operated by a unit of government or special government entity such as an
airport authority, in which case they are included in the definition of
"airport facilities".
      "Channel" means a natural water-carrying trough cut vertically into low
areas of the land surface by erosive action of concentrated flowing water or a
ditch or canal excavated for the flow of water.
      "DBH" means the diameter at breast height of a tree measured at four and
one-half (4.5) feet above ground level surface.
      "Development" means the same as defined in Rule 15A NCAC 2B .0202(23).
      "Ditch or canal" means a man-made channel other than a modified natural
stream constructed for drainage purposes that is typically dug through inter-
stream divide areas. A ditch or canal may have flows that are perennial,
intermittent, or ephemeral and may exhibit hydrological and biological
characteristics similar to perennial or intermittent streams.
      "Ephemeral Stream" means a feature that carries only stormwater in direct
response to precipitation with water flowing only during and shortly after
large precipitation events. An ephemeral stream may or may not have a well-
defined channel, the aquatic bed is always above the water table, and
stormwater runoff is the primary source of water. An ephemeral stream typically
lacks the biological, hydrological, and physical characteristics commonly
associated with the continuous or intermittent conveyance of water.
      "Existing Development" means development, other than that associated with
agricultural or forest management activities that meets one (1) of the
following criteria:
      (1)   It either is built or has established a vested right based on
statutory or common law as interpreted by the courts, for projects that do not
require a state permit, as of the effective date of either local new
development stormwater programs implemented under Rule 15A NCAC 2B .0265
(Jordan Water Supply Nutrient Strategy: Stormwater Management for New
Development) or, for projects requiring a state permit, as of the applicable
compliance date established in Rule 15A NCAC 2B .0271 (Jordan Water Supply
Nutrient Strategy: Stormwater Management for New Development), Items (5) and
(6); or
      (2)   It occurs after the compliance date set out in Sub-Item (4)(d) of
Rule .0265 (Jordan Water Supply Nutrient Strategy: Stormwater Management for
New Development) but does not result in a net increase built-upon area.
      "Greenway / Hiking Trails" means pedestrian trails constructed of
pervious or impervious surface and related structures including but not limited
to boardwalks, steps, rails, and signage, and that generally run parallel to
the shoreline.
      "High Value Tree" means a tree that meets or exceeds the following
standards: for pine species, fourteen (14)-inch DBH or greater or eighteen
(18)-inch or greater stump diameter; or for hardwoods and wetland species,
sixteen (16)-inch DBH or greater or twenty-four (24)-inch or greater stump
diameter.
      "Intermittent Stream" means a well-defined channel that contains water
for only part of the year, typically during winter and spring when the aquatic
bed is below the water table. The flow may be heavily supplemented by
stormwater runoff. An intermittent stream often lacks the biological and
hydrological characteristics commonly associated with the continuous conveyance
of water.
      "Jordan Nutrient Strategy" or "Jordan water supply nutrient strategy"
means the set of Rules 15A NCAC 2B .0262 through .0273 and .0311(p).
      "Jordan Reservoir" means the surface water impoundment operated by the US
Army Corps of Engineers and named B. Everett Jordan Reservoir, as further
delineated for purposes of the Jordan Nutrient strategy rule in Rule 15A NCAC
2B .0262(4).
      "Jordan watershed" means all lands and waters draining to B. Everett
Jordan Reservoir.
      "New Development" means any development project that does not meet the
definition of existing development set out in Section 14.6.
      "Perennial Stream" means a well-defined channel that contains water year-
round during a year of normal rainfall with the aquatic bed located below the
water table for most of the year. Groundwater is the primary source of water
for a perennial stream, but it also carries stormwater runoff. A perennial
stream exhibits the typical biological, hydrological, and physical
characteristics commonly associated with the continuous conveyance of water.
      "Perennial waterbody" means a natural or man-made basin, including lakes,
ponds, and reservoirs, that stores surface water permanently at depths
sufficient to preclude growth of rooted plants. For the purpose of the State's
riparian buffer protection program, the waterbody must be part of a natural
drainage way (i.e., connected by surface flow to a stream).
      "Referenced / reference reach" means a stable stream that is in dynamic
equilibrium with its valley and contributing watershed. A reference reach can
be used to develop natural channel design criteria for stream restoration
projects.
      "Shoreline stabilization" is the in-place stabilization of an eroding
shoreline. Stabilization techniques which include "soft" methods or natural
materials (such as root wads, or rock vanes) may be considered as part of a
restoration design. However, stabilization techniques that consist of "hard"
engineering, such as concrete lined channels, riprap, or gabions, while
providing bank stabilization, shall not be considered stream restoration.
      "Stream restoration" is defined as the process of converting an unstable,
altered or degraded stream corridor, including adjacent riparian zone and
flood-prone areas to its natural or referenced, stable conditions considering
recent and future watershed conditions. This process also includes restoring
the geomorphic dimension, pattern, and profile as well as biological and
chemical integrity, including transport of water and sediment produced by the
stream's watershed in order to achieve dynamic equilibrium.
      "Stream" means a body of concentrated flowing water in a natural low area
or natural channel on the land surface.
      "Stump diameter" means the diameter of a tree measured at six (6) inches
above the ground surface level.
      "Surface Waters" means all waters of the state as defined in G.S. 143-212
except underground waters.
      "Tree" means a woody plant with a DBH equal to or exceeding five (5)
inches or a stump diameter exceeding six (6) inches.
      "Temporary road" means a road constructed temporarily for equipment
access to build or replace hydraulic conveyance structures such as bridges,
culverts, pipes or water dependent structures or to maintain public traffic
during construction.
(Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
14.7   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   14.7.1   Purpose; Enforcement
      (A)   The Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA) is subject to periodic
inundation that could result in loss of life and property, hazards to public
health and safety, disruption of commerce and governmental services, damage to
and disruption of public utilities, extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
         These losses and hazards are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains, which increase flood heights and velocities, and
by the occupancy in flood-prone areas by uses that are vulnerable to floods, or
hazardous to other properties, because they are inadequately elevated, flood
proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damages. Therefore, the regulations
set forth in this section are designed to:
         (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety,
and property due to water or erosion or increased flood heights or velocities;
         (2)   Require that uses that are vulnerable to floods, including
facilities that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time
of initial construction;
         (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels,
and natural protective barriers that accommodate and restrain floodwaters;
         (4)   Prevent or control filling, grading, dredging, and other
development that may increase erosion or flood damage;
         (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands;
      (B)   Objectives
         The objectives of this ordinance are to:
         (1)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
         (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
         (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
         (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
         (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and
bridges) that are located in flood prone areas;
         (6)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
         (7)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the
National Flood Insurance Program;
         (8)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
         (9)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use
and development of flood prone areas; and
         (10)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
Special Flood Hazard Area.
      (C)   The degree of flood protection required by this section is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions.
Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This section does
not imply that land outside the Special Flood Hazard Area will be free from
flooding or flood damages. Neither shall this section create liability on the
part of Cary or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this section, or any administrative decision lawfully
made hereunder.
      (D)   In the interpretation and application of this section, all
provisions shall be considered as minimum requirements, shall be liberally
construed in favor of Cary, and shall be deemed neither to limit nor repeal any
other powers granted to Cary under state statutes.
      (E)   This Section 14.7 shall be enforced by the Town Manager or
designee. Any person who fails to comply with any provision of this Section
14.7 shall be in violation of this Ordinance.
   14.7.2   Applicability
      (A)   Applicability
         This section 14.7 shall apply to the Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)
and the Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area. Additionally, section
14.7.9 (Downstream Impact Analysis) shall apply to all development that
requires a stormwater management plan under
7.3 of this ordinance.
      (B)   Exemptions
         (1)   All new residential construction and substantial residential
improvements proposed on a parcel of land that has no buildable area outside
the Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area, and that
was platted prior to June 1978, shall be exempt from the requirements for
residential construction set forth in this section, but shall be developed in
strict accordance with the requirements for non-residential construction.
         (2)   Residential subdivision plats submitted for review prior to May
10, 2001, shall be exempted from the requirements prohibiting the platting of
lands located within Special Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood
Hazard Areas, provided the subdivision complies with the requirements in place
prior to May 10, 2001, and shall be developed in strict accordance with the
requirements for non-residential construction.
         (3)   Development plans submitted prior to May 10, 2001, and all new
residential construction or substantial residential improvements proposed on a
platted lot that is located within the Special Flood Hazard Area or Future
Conditions Flood Hazard Area, but was not so located at the time it was
platted, shall be exempt from the requirement to obtain a special use permit
for filling in the flood fringe portion of the Special Flood Hazard Area or the
Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area but shall submit a floodplain development
permit application and shall be developed in strict accordance with the
requirements for non-residential construction.
         (4)   Development plans or plats submitted after May 10, 2001, may not
plat residential lots within Special Flood Hazard Areas or Future Conditions
Flood Hazard Areas unless one of the following is true:
            (a)   The residential subdivision is within an approved Planned
Development District and the master plan and/or conditions have exempted lots
from this provision; or
            (b)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment finds, after an evidentiary
hearing, that all the following conditions are met:
               1.   The Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood
Hazard Area impacts a limited section of the subdivision (i.e., less than ten
percent (10%) of the total land area of the subdivision);
               2.   There is no other reason for the formation of a homeowner's
association to retain ownership and maintenance responsibility for the Special
Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area (e.g., covenant, other
common areas); and
               3.   The Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood
Hazard Area is placed in a permanent maintenance easement prior to plat
recordation.
      (C)   Study Required
         Residential development that contains a watercourse that has a
contributory drainage area of fifty (50) acres or greater shall require the
applicant to provide a signed and sealed engineered study prepared by a
qualified professional that determines the extent of the Special Flood Hazard
Area.
   14.7.3   Development Restrictions and Related Standards In and Near Special
Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas
      (A)   Development Restrictions
         In general, no development is allowed in Special Flood Hazard Areas or
Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas unless one or more of the following are
met:
         (1)   A special use is approved;
         (2)   The property/use is exempted from this requirement; and/or
         (3)   The development is for roads, greenways, pedestrian crossings,
park-related equipment, or public utilities and facilities such as wastewater,
gas, electrical, and water systems that are located and constructed to minimize
flood damage.
         Structures for pedestrian crossings (e.g., footbridges, etc.),
playground equipment, and other similar items may be permitted if the applicant
provides certification by a professional registered engineer, architect, or
landscape architect that these encroachments will not result in any increase in
flood levels during the base flood.
      (B)   Development Standards
         No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
ordinance and other applicable regulations.
         If development or encroachments are permitted, the following standards
shall apply in Special Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard
Areas.
         (1)   An engineering study must be performed to determine whether an
adverse impact will result from development in the flood fringe portion of the
Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area and must be
submitted with the floodplain development permit application. For purposes of
this Section 14.7.3 an "adverse impact" includes, but is not limited to, a
reduction of floodplain storage greater than ten percent (10%), an increase in
one hundred (100) year average channel velocities greater than ten percent
(10%), any increase in one hundred (100) year water surface elevation, the
potential for aggravating a known existing drainage problem or creating a new
drainage problem, as determined by the Stormwater Manager.
         (2)   All new non-residential construction and substantial
improvements to existing non-residential construction shall be:
            (a)   Anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral movement
of the structure; and
            (b)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and
            (c)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage.
         (3)   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and other service facilities shall be
designed and constructed to prevent water from entering or accumulating in or
on the components.
         (4)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
         (5)   New and replacement sanitary sewer systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system and
discharges from the system into flood waters.
         (6)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
         (7)   Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the repair,
reconstruction, or replacement of a building or structure existing on the
effective date of this ordinance and located totally or partially within the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no
additional encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the
floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction, or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this ordinance.
         (8)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted in Special Flood Hazard Areas or Future Conditions Flood Hazard
Areas, except by variance as specified in Section 3.20. A structure or tank for
chemical or fuel storage incidental to an allowed use or to the operation of a
water treatment plant or wastewater treatment facility may be located in a
Special Flood Hazard Area or a Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified according to Section 14.7.3(D)(3) of
this ordinance.
      (C)   Additional Development Standards and Restrictions for Areas with
Established Base Flood Elevation Data
         (1)   Residential Construction
            (a)   New construction of or substantial improvements to any
residential structure shall be located outside Special Flood Hazard Areas and
Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas and shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation as
defined. "Substantial improvement" is defined in
Chapter 12.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58598.png]
 
   Residential Construction 2'-0" Above Base Flood Elevation
            (b)   No proposed building lot that is wholly or partly subject to
flooding shall be approved unless there is established on the final plat a line
representing an actual contour as determined by field survey at elevation of
the regulatory flood protection elevation as determined by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Rate Maps, or by other
studies approved by Cary. Such a line shall be known and identified on the
development plan and final plat as the "Building Restriction Flood Line."
            (c)   Placement of fill within the floodway, non-encroachment area,
and/or flood fringe is prohibited unless such activities are authorized through
a Special Use Permit.
         (2)   Non-Residential Construction Approved within Special Flood
Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas
            (a)   New construction of or substantial improvements to any
commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation as defined in
Chapter 12, with attendant utilities and sanitary facilities flood-proofed.
            (b)   For all new construction and substantial improvements, fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on the exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must be certified by a registered Professional Engineer or
architect, or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
               1.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of
not less than one (1) square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided;
               2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one (1)
foot above grade;
               3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters; and
               4.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall
certify to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this section are
satisfied.
      (D)   Application Requirements
         (1)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to
the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development activities located within
Special Flood Hazard Areas and Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas. The
following items shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for
a floodplain development permit:
            (a)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not
be limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
               1.   the nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the
area of development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility
systems, grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage
facilities, and other development;
               2.   the boundary of the Special Flood Hazard Area or Future
Conditions Flood Hazard Area as delineated on the FIRM or other flood map as
determined in Section
14.7.2(A), or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood
Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area;
               3.   flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area
as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in Section
14.7.2(A);
               4.   the boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s)
as determined in Section
14.7.2(A);
               5.   the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) or Future Conditions Flood
Elevation where provided as set forth in Section
14.7.2;
               6.   the old and new location of any watercourse that will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
               7.   certification of the plot plan by a registered land
surveyor or professional engineer.
            (b)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
within a Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area
including but not limited to:
               1.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
               2.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or X (Future) will be flood-proofed; and
               3.   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed;
            (c)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 81-
65) with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not
limited to, installation, exercise, and maintenance of floodproofing measures.
            (d)   A Foundation Plan, drawn to scale, which shall include
details of the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this
ordinance are met. These details include but are not limited to:
               1.   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e.,
fill, solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open
foundation on columns/ posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
               2.   Openings to facilitate equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on walls in accordance with Section 14.7.3(E)(1)(c) 1 through 6, when
solid foundation perimeter walls are used in the SFHA;
            (e)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the regulatory
flood protection elevation.
            (f)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located
and constructed to minimize flood damage;
            (g)   Copies of all other Local, State and Federal permits required
prior to floodplain development permit issuance (Wetlands, Endangered Species,
Erosion and Sedimentation Control, Mining, etc.)
            (h)   Documentation for placement of Recreational Vehicles and/or
Temporary Structures, when applicable, to ensure Section 14.7.3(F)(5)(b)
ordinance are met.
            (i)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation, when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not
shown on plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration
or relocation.
         (2)   Permit Requirements
            The floodplain development permit shall include, but not be limited
to:
            (a)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit. (e.g. house, garage, pool, septic,
bulkhead, cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.).
            (b)   The Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood
Hazard Area determination for the proposed development per available data
specified in Section 14.7.3(A).
            (c)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities.
            (d)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities.
            (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
            (f)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable.
            (g)   The flood openings requirements, if in SFHA.
            (h)   Limitations of below RFPE enclosure uses (i.e., parking,
building access and limited storage only) if applicable.
            (i)   A statement, that all materials below RFPE must be flood
resistant materials.
         (3)   Certification Requirements
            (a)   Elevation Certificates
               1.   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or a Cary Lowest
Floor Certificate within non-FEMA SFHA, is required prior to the actual start
of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, in relation to NAVD 1988. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure
to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be
cause to deny a floodplain development permit.
               2.   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or a Cary Lowest
Floor Certificate within non-FEMA SFHA, is required after the reference level
is established. Within seven (7) calendar days of establishment of the
reference level elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit
to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
reference level, in relation to NAVD 1988. Any work done within the seven (7)
day calendar period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at
the permit holder's risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to further work being
permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
               3.   A final as-built Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) or
a Cary Lowest Floor Certificate within non-FEMA SFHA, is required after
construction is completed and prior to Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy
issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of final as-built construction of the elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities in relation to NAVD 1988.
The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted.
Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder
immediately and prior to Certificate of Compliance/ Occupancy issuance. In some
instances, another certification may be required to certify corrected as-built
construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy.
            (b)   Floodproofing Certificate
               1.   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the
regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing Certificate
(FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data and an operational plan, is required
prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the
permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
floodproofed design elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or
architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the
certificate data and plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the
certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a Certificate of
Compliance/Occupancy.
               2.   A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate
(FEMA Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an
inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a
Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed
design elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in
relation to NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to
Certificate of Occupancy. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Failure to construct in accordance with the certified design shall be
cause to deny a Certificate of Compliance/Occupancy.
            (c)   If a manufactured home is placed within the SFHA and the
elevation of the chassis is more than thirty-six (36) inches in height above
grade, an engineered foundation certification is required per Section
14.7.7(A), (B) and (C).
            (d)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description
of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional
engineer's certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the
flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties
located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the
permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
            (e)   Certification Exemptions
               The following structures, if located within the SFHA, are exempt
from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements specified in items
(a) and (b) of this subsection:
               1.   recreational Vehicles meeting requirements of Section
14.7.3(F)(5);
               2.   temporary Structures meeting requirements of Section 14.7.3
(F)(6); and
               3.   accessory Structures less than one hundred fifty (150)
square feet meeting requirements of Section 14.7.3(H).
         (4)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures
            For applications for building permits to improve buildings and
structures, including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair,
change of occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial
improvements, repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or
work on such buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in
coordination with the Building Official, shall:
            (a)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain
an appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser,
of the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
            (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to
repair a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs
of improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building
or structure;
            (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
            (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood resistant construction requirements of the NC
Building Code and this ordinance is required.
      (E)   Additions/Improvements
         (1)   Elevated Buildings
            Fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially improved
structures, which is below the lowest floor:
            (a)   shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
            (b)   shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials
below the regulatory flood protection elevation;
            (c)   shall include, in the SFHA, flood openings to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the entry and exit
of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must either be certified
by a qualified professional or meet or exceed the following minimum design
criteria;
               1.   a minimum of two (2) flood openings on different sides of
each enclosed area subject to flooding;
               2.   the total net area of all flood openings must be at least
one (1) square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
               3.   if a building has more than one (1) enclosed area, each
enclosed area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically
enter and exit;
               4.   the bottom of all required flood openings shall be no
higher than one (1) foot above the adjacent grade;
               5.   flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or
other coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of
floodwaters in both directions; and
               6.   enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (F)   Additions/Improvements to Existing Structures
         (1)   For additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures located
within the Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Flood Conditions Hazard Area
when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior
modifications to the existing structure are:
            (a)   not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non- conforming than the existing structure.
            (b)   a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction contained in Section 14.7.3(B) and (C).
         (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures located within the Special
Flood Hazard Area or Future Flood Conditions Hazard Area with no modifications
to the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction
contained in Section 14.7.3(B) and (C).
         (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures located
within the Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Flood Conditions Hazard Area
when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior
modifications to the existing structure are:
            (a)   not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction contained
in Section 14.7.3(B) and (C).
            (b)   a substantial improvement, both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction contained in Section 14.7.3(B) and (C).
         (4)   For either a pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structure located within the
Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Flood Conditions Hazard Area, where an
independent perimeter load-bearing wall is provided between the addition and
the existing building, the addition(s) shall be considered a separate building
and only the addition must comply with the standards for new construction
contained in Section 14.7.3(B) and (C).
         (5)   Recreational Vehicles
            Recreational vehicles shall either:
            (a)   be on site for fewer than one hundred and eighty (180)
consecutive days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and
has no permanently attached additions); or
            (b)   meet all the requirements for new construction.
         (6)   Temporary Non-Residential Structures
            Prior to the issuance of a Floodplain Development Permit for a
temporary structure, the applicant must submit to the Floodplain Administrator
a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash
flood or other type of flood warning notification. The following information
shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain Administrator for review and
written approval;
            (a)   a specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three (3) months, renewable up to one
(1) year;
            (b)   the name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
            (c)   the time frame prior to the event at which a structure will
be removed (i.e., minimum of seventy-two (72) hours before landfall of a
hurricane or immediately upon flood warning notification);
            (d)   a copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
            (e)   designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location
outside the Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area,
to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (G)   Accessory Structures
         When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages, etc.) are to be
placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard
Area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
         (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
Section 14.7.3(C)(2);
         (6)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with Section 14.7.3(C)(2)(a);
         (7)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with Section 14.7.3(C)(2)(b)1 through 6.
         An accessory structure with a footprint less than one hundred fifty
(150) square feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require
an elevation or floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing
certifications are required for all other accessory structures in accordance
with Section 14.7.3(D)(3).
   14.7.4   Limitations on Encroachments in Floodways and Non-Encroachment
Areas
         Floodways and non-encroachment areas, located within the Special Flood
Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas, are extremely hazardous
areas due to the velocity of flood waters that carry debris, potential
projectiles, and the potential for erosion. Therefore, encroachments, including
fill, in floodways or non-encroachment areas are permitted only in limited
circumstances and only under the following restrictions:
      (A)   There shall be no encroachment, including fill, unless the
applicant has received a Special Use Permit (see Section
3.8) or the use is permitted under Section
14.7.3(A). The applicant for a special use involving the floodway portion of a
Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area shall provide
certification by a professional registered engineer, architect, or landscape
architect that the encroachment will not result in any increase in flood levels
during the discharge of the base flood or provide a Conditional Letter or Map
Revision (CLOMR) issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. A Letter of
Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six (6) months of completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (B)   Once paragraph (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction requirements of this section.
   14.7.5   Standards for Streams without Established Base Flood Elevations
      Located within Special Flood Hazard Areas are small streams where no base
flood data has been provided. The following provisions apply within such areas:
      (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or new development, shall be permitted within a distance of the
stream bank equal to five (5) times the width of the stream at the top of the
bank or twenty (20) feet each side from the top of the bank, whichever is
greater, unless a special use is approved or the use is permitted.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58606.png]
 
New Construction near Streams
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/461eb5db3c73d099ad328ccbaaee44f985e34974/
IMAGES/0-0-0-58604.png]
 
Standards for Streams without Established Base Flood Elevations
      (B)   In cases where the streams lacking base flood data are USGS or
County Soils Map streams, then the limitations upon encroachments shall apply
to the entire area within the associated UTBs, or an area five (5) times the
width of the stream at the top of the bank, whichever is greater.
      (C)   If paragraph (A) above is satisfied, and base flood elevation data
is available from other sources, all new construction and substantial
improvements within such areas shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
ordinance provisions of this Section and shall be elevated or flood-proofed in
accordance with elevations established under Section
14.7.2. When base flood elevation data is not available from a federal, state,
or other source, the lowest floor, including basement, shall be elevated to or
above the regulatory flood protection elevation as defined in
Chapter 12.
   14.7.6   Cross Drainage Area Standards and Restrictions
      For any new proposed development subject to flooding which includes, but
is not limited to, those lots along any significant watercourse, whether or not
the stream or water course is enclosed with a pipe or culvert; the applicant
shall make a determination of the crest elevation of the flood expected to be
equaled or exceeded that has a one percent (1%) chance of annual occurrence in
accordance with generally accepted engineering practice, which is to be
submitted with the seal and signature of a Professional Engineer to Cary. Any
new construction of, or substantial improvements (see
Chapter 12, Definitions) to, any residential or non-residential structure shall
comply with Section
14.7.3(B).
   14.7.7   Special Requirements for Manufactured Homes
      (A)   No manufactured home shall be placed in Special Flood Hazard Areas
or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Areas, except when located within an existing
manufactured home park. In existing manufactured home parks, all manufactured
homes to be placed or substantially improved within the SFHA or Future
Conditions Flood Hazard Area, shall be elevated on a permanent foundation such
that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation as defined in
Chapter 12 and shall be securely anchored to an adequate foundation system in
accordance with the most current edition of the State of North Carolina
Regulations for Manufactured Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance
pursuant to G.S. 143-143.15.
      (B)   Manufactured homes may not be placed in the floodway.
      (C)   All manufactured homes within Special Flood Hazard Areas or Future
Conditions Flood Hazard Areas shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse,
or lateral movement in accordance with the Regulations for Mobile Homes and
Modular Housing adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. 143-
15. Where the required elevation can be met by elevating the chassis no more
than thirty-six (36) inches above grade at the site, the chassis shall be
supported by reinforced piers or other foundation of equivalent strength. When
the elevation of the chassis is above thirty-six (36) inches in height an
engineering certification is required.
   14.7.8   Special Requirements for Development Proposals Requiring
Development Plan Approval
      For purposes of this section only, the boundaries of the Special Flood
Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area for a development or a
discrete phase of a development are established if all of the following
conditions are met:
      (A)   The development is approved for construction;
      (B)   A substantial investment is made in constructing the development.
      (C)   In addition to satisfying the other requirements of this Ordinance,
all proposals for development plans shall:
         (1)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
         (2)   Have public utilities and facilities, such as wastewater, gas,
electrical, and water systems, located and constructed so as to minimize flood
damage;
         (3)   Have all proposed residential structures located outside the
Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area, with the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least two (2) feet above the base
flood elevation;
         (4)   Have all proposed non-residential structures located outside of
the Special Flood Hazard Area or Future Conditions Flood Hazard Area, with the
lowest floor, including basement, located at least two (2) feet above the base
flood elevation. (Note that an approved special use may permit structures in a
flood fringe - see Section
3.12.3).
         (5)   Have all drainage structures located within the Flood Hazard
Area designed to accommodate the one percent (1%) annual chance flood without
causing increased base flood elevations on properties other than that for which
development approval is being requested;
         (6)   Shall provide base flood elevation data along with the
development plan, which is submitted to Cary for approval.
   14.7.9   Downstream Impact Analysis
      (A)   A Downstream Impact Analysis shall be submitted at the time of
development plan submission for all proposed development that requires
development plan approval. Development plans that are not subject to the
stormwater management regulations of LDO Section
7.3 are exempt from this section 14.7.9.
      (B)   The Downstream Impact Analysis shall calculate the pre- and post-
development discharges for each discharge point from the area subject to the
development plan.
         (1)   If the calculated post-development discharge is less than the
calculated pre-development discharge for the two (2), five (5), ten (10) and
one hundred (100)-year peak discharges at each discharge point, then no further
analysis is needed.
         (2)   If the calculated post-development discharge is greater than the
calculated pre-development discharge for the two (2), five (5), ten (10) or one
hundred (100)-year peak discharges at any discharge point, then one of the
options below shall be required.
            (a)   Provide onsite detention to fully mitigate each storm event
to calculated pre-development discharge; or
            (b)   Provide an engineering model demonstrating no adverse impacts
from the development on downstream properties and infrastructure.
   14.7.10   Non-Compliance
      Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall constitute a
violation of this Ordinance and shall subject an offending party to a series of
actions listed in
Chapter 11 of this Ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2022-LDO-03, 10-27-22)
LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE DISPOSITION TABLE—1976 CODE
   This table gives the location within the Land Development Ordinance of those
ordinances included in the 1976 Code. Ordinances not listed herein have been
omitted as repealed, superseded or not of a general and permanent nature.
Adoption Date Section Section this Code
Adoption Date Section Section this Code
                     
3- 9-61              App. A, §§ 76—90
4-16-63              App. A, §§ 9—75
12-14-72             App. A, §§ 111—117
12-28-72             App. A, § 88
2-27-73              App. A, § 21
                    App. A, § 37
                    App. A, § 38
                    App. A, § 39
                    App. A, § 40
                    App. A, § 41
                    App. A, § 42
5-10-43       1       App. A, § 58
             2       App. A, § 59
             3       App. A, § 60
             4       App. A, § 61
                    App. A, § 74
                    App. A, § 79
6-24-74              App. A, § 26
8- 8-74              App. A, § 90
9-15-74              App. A, §§ 91—110
12-12-74             App. A, § 45
                    App. A, § 46
                    App. A, § 47
                    App. A, § 48
                    App. A, § 49
                    App. A, § 50
                    App. A, § 51
                    App. A, § 52
                    App. A, § 53
                    App. A, § 54
                    App. A, § 55
                    App. A, § 74
2-27-75              App. A, § 21
4-24-75              App. A, § 21
12-11-75             App. A, § 43
5-27-76              App. A, § 88
6-29-78              App. A, §§ 120—137
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Section Section this Code
Ordinance   Adoption Section    Section this Code
Number      Date
76-3        2-26-76             App. A, § 46
                                App. A, § 50
76-23       7-22-86  1          App. A, § 36
77-12       5- 1-77  1, 2       App. A, § 21
77-39       10-27-77 1          App. A, § 46
                     2          App. A, § 47
                     3          App. A, § 48
                     4          App. A, § 49,
                                App. A, § 50
                     6          App. A, § 51
                     7          App. A, § 52
                     8          App. A, § 53
77-43       12- 8-77 1          App. A, §§ 28, 29, 30
77-44       12- 8-87 2          App. A, § 21
                     3          App. A, § 27
                     4          App. A, § 31
                     5          App. A, § 32
                     6          App. A, § 33
                                App. A, § 59
78-4        4-27-78  1          App. A, § 29
78-5        4-27-78  1          App. A, § 13
                     2          App. A, § 14
                     4          App. A, § 35
78-6        4-27-78  1          App. A, § 29
                     2          App. A, § 30
                     3          App. A, § 31
                     4          App. A, § 35
78-7        4-27-78  1          App. A, § 88
78-8        4-27-78  1          App. A, § 21
79-3        3-22-79  1, 2       App. A, § 36
                     3          App. A, § 31
79-14       8-23-79  1          App. A, § 36
                     2          App. A, § 37
                     3          App. A, § 38
                     4          App. A, § 41
                     5          App. A, § 42
79-16       9-27-79  1          App. A, § 65
79-17       9-27-79  1          App. A, § 53
                     2—6      App. A, § 50
79-18       9-27-79  1          App. A, § 66(a)(1)(C)
79-24       9-27-79  1          App. A, § 49
79-25       7-11-79  1          App. A, § 21
79-26       9-27-79  1          App. A, § 85
79-27       9-27-79  1          App. A, § 26
79-31       12-20-79 1          App. A, § 88
80-6        2-28-80  1          App. A, § 42
80-7        2-28-80  1          App. A, § 13
                     2          App. A, § 14
                     3          App. A, § 15
80-9        3-27-80  1          App. A, § 90
80-11       4-24-80  1          App. A, §§ 28—33
80-12       4-24-80  1          App. A, § 36
                     2          App. A, § 38
                     3          App. A, § 39
80-15       6-26-80  1          App. A, § 31
80-18       7-24-80  1          App. A, § 38
                     2          App. A, § 39
80-19       7-29-80  1          App. A, § 79
80-24       9-25-80  1          App. A, § 38
                     2          App. A, § 39
80-26       9-25-80  1          App. A, § 41
                                App. A, § 42
80-27       9-25-80  1          App. A, § 40.1
81-4        5-23-81  1          App. A, § 38
                     2          App. A, § 39
81-5        5-28-81  1          App. A, §§ 62—65
81-8        6-29-81  1          App. A, § 31
                     2          App. A, § 32,
                                App. A, § 33
                     3          App. A, § 34
                     4          App. A, § 35
81-9        6-29-81  1          App. A, § 74
81-11       8-27-81  1          App. A, § 91,
                                App. A, § 92,
                                App. A, § 93,
                                App. A, § 94,
                                App. A, § 95,
                                App. A, § 96,
                                App. A, § 97,
                                App. A, § 98,
                                App. A, § 99,
                                App. A, § 100,
                                App. A, § 101,
                                App. A, § 102,
                                App. A, § 103,
                                App. A, § 104,
                                App. A, § 105,
                                App. A, § 106,
                                App. A, § 107,
                                App. A, § 108,
                                App. A, § 109,
                                App. A, § 110
81-14       9-24-81  1          App. A, § 74
81-15       9-24-81  1          App. A, § 36
                     2          App. A, §§ 37—41
                     3          App. A, § 42
82-7        5-27-82  1, 2       App. A, § 99
82-18       10-28-82 1          App. A, § 29(d)(2)
83-2        4-15-83  1          App. A, § 118
83-4        4-28-83  1          App. A, §§ 138—144
83-11       7-28-83  1          App. A, § 19
83-12       7-28-83  1          App. A, § 77
83-13       7-28-83  1          App. A, § 30(e)(4)(B), (C)
83-14       7-28-83  1          App. A, § 65(a)(1)(B)
83-17       10-27-83 1    Rpld  App. A, § 73
                     2          App. A, § 195
83-18       12-22-83 1          App. A, §§ 118.50—118.56, 118.75
84-14       5-24-84  2          App. A, § 28(d)
                     3          App. A, § 29(c)
                     4          App. A, § 29(d)(1)
                     5          App. A, § 29(f)
                     66         App. A, §§ 30(e), 41(e), 42(e)
                     7          App. A, §§ 31(a)(4), 32(a)(4), 33(a)(4), 36(a)(4)
                     8          App. A, § 34(a)(2)(B)
                     9          App. A, § 35(a)(3)(E)
                     10         App. A, § 37(e), 39(e)
                     11         App. A, § 38(f)
                     12         App. A, § 40(c)
                     13         App. A, § 40.1(e)(1)
                     14,        App. A, § 48(a)(2)(A)
                     15
                     16   Rpld  App. A, § 48(a)(2)(E)
                          Rnbd  App. A, § 48(a)(2)(F)—(H)
                          as    App. A, § 48(a)(2)(E)—(G)
                     17         App. A, § 48(a)(2)(G)
                     18         App. A, § 52(a)(10)
                     19         App. A, § 59(b)(3)
84-15       5-24-84  1          App. A, §§ 42.1—42.8
84-18       9-27-84  1          App. A, § 55.1
84-19       9-27-84  1(a)       App. A, § 32(a)(4)(I)
                     1(b)       App. A, § 33(a)(4)(H)
                     1(c)       App. A, § 34(a)(2)(D)
84-22       10-25-84 1          App. A, § 36(a)(1)(E)
84-23       12-13-84 1(1)       App. A, § 25(e)
                     1(2)       App. A, § 26(a)(3)
                     1(3)       App. A, § 40.1(i)(8)(A)(viii)
                     1(4)       App. A, § 48(a)(2)(c)(i)
                     1(5)       App. A, § 86(a)(1)(d)—(i)
                     1(6)       App. A, § 86(a)(4)
                     1(7)       App. A, § 88(a)(4)b
                     1(8)       App. A, § 88(a)(4)c
                     1(9) Rpld  App. A, § 88(a)(4)d
                     1    Rnbd  App. A, § 88(a)(4)e
                     (10)
                          as    App. A, § 88(a)(4)d
                     1          App. A, § 126
                     (11)
85-1        1-10-85  1          App. A, § 42.2(a)
                     2          App. A, § 42.3
                     3          App. A, § 42.7(a)
                     4          App. A, § 42.7(b)
                     5          App. A, § 42.8
85-5        2-28-85  1          App. A, § 36(a)(2)(C)
85-6        2-28-85  1          App. A, § 43(g)(1)(A)
                     2          App. A, § 59(d)(1)
85-7        3-14-85  1          App. A, §§ 40.1(d), 41(c)(4), 42(c)(2)
85-10       3-28-85  1          App. A, § 29(a), 29(b)(4)
85-12       4-25-85  1          App. A, § 28(b.1)
                     2          App. A, § 29(c)(6)
                     3          App. A, § 34(a)(2)(E)
                     4          App. A, § 35(a)(1.1)
                     5          App. A, § 36(a)(2)(D)
                     6          App. A, § 37(c)(2)
                     7          App. A, § 38(c)(3)
                     8          App. A, § 39(c)(4)
                     9          App. A, § 40(b.1)
                     10         App. A, § 41(c)(5)
                     11         App. A, § 42(c)(3)
85-13       6-13-85  1          App. A, §§ 124, 128(e), (f)
                                130(5), 131(1)—(3), (7)
                                132(1), (2), 132(a), 133(1),
                                133(2)a, b, 134(3)—(6)
85-21       7-25-85  1          App. A, § 25(g)(3)
85-22       7-25-85  1          App. A, §§ 15(b)(3)(B), 66(a)(1)(C)(ii), 66(a)(3)(A), 66(a)(3)(B)
85-23       7-25-85  1          App. A, §§ 25(a)(6), 25(p), 27, 66
85-24       7-25-85  1          App. A, § 16
85-25       8-22-85  1          App. A, §§ 36(a)(4)(13),
                                37(e)(3), 38(f)(1),
                                39(c)(1), 39(e)(3)
85-29       9-12-85  1          App. A, § 79
                     2—4      App. A, § (a)(1)a, b, d, n, o
86-1        1-23-86  1          App. A, § 93
                     2          App. A, § 96
                     3          App. A, § 98(a), (b), (h)
                     4          App. A, § 99(b)
                     5          App. A, § 101(a)
86-5        2-28-86  1          App. A, § 42.50
86-6        2-28-86  1    Rpld  App. A, § 39(e)(3)
86-9        3-13-86  1          App. A, §§ 45—55
86-10       3-13-86  1    Rpld  App. A, § 35(a)(3)(J)
                     2    Rpld  App. A, § 36(a)(2)(C)(iv)(aa)—(cc)
                     3    Rpld  App. A, § 36(a)(4)(E)
                     4    Rpld  App. A, § 40(c)(4)
                     5    Rpld  App. A, § 42.6
                     6          App. A, § 34(a)(2)(F)
                     7          App. A, § 35(a)(1.1)(B)
                     8          App. A, § 36(a)(2)(E)
                     9          App. A, § 37(c)(3)
                     10         App. A, § 38(c)(4)
                     11         App. A, § 40(b.1)(2)
                     12         App. A, § 40.1(d0(2)
                     13         App. A, § 41(c)(6)
                     14         App. A, § 42(c)(4)
                     15         App. A, § 42.6
                     16         App. A, § 56(c)
                     17         App. A, § 59(b)(2)(A)
                     18         App. A, § 29(c)(7)
86-18       4-24-86  1          App. A, § 90(b)(2)
86-20       5-22-86  1          App. A, §§ 42.60—42.64
                     2          App. A, § 25(g)(1)
86-22       6-26-86  1          App. A, § 8(a)(17)
86-23       6-26-86  1          App. A, § 25(q)
86-24       6-26-86  1          App. A, § 66(a)(3)(B)
86-25       6-26-86  1          App. A, §§ 118.51, 118.55, 119.75
86-28       8-28-86  1          App. A, § 91—110
86-29       8-28-86  1          App. A, § 19(b)
86-30       8-28-86  1          App. A, § 61(b)
                     23   Rpld  App. A, § 61(b)—(e)
                          as    App. A, § 61(c)—(f)
86-31       8-28-86  1          App. A, § 66(a)(3)(A)
86-37       9-25-86  1          App. A, § 87(c)
86-43       12-11-86 1    Rpld  App. A, § 118
                          Added App. A, §§ 119—119.6
87-1        2-26-87  1          App. A, § 40.1(k)(2)(D)
87-2        2-26-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 41(b)(25)
87-3        2-26-87  1          App. A, § 41(d)
87-4        2-26-87  1          App. A, § 42(d)(3)(D)
87-16       4-23-87  1          App. A, § 87(e)(1)
87-17       4-23-87  1, 2       App. A, § 86(a)(1)a.
                     3, 4       App. A, § 86(a)(1)b.
                     5          App. A, § 86(a)(1)d.
87-18       4-23-87  1          App. A, § 124
                     2          App. A, § 132(2)
                     3          App. A, § 132(3)a
87-22       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 25(d)
87-23       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 25(g)(1)(M)
87-24       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 25(g)(1)(U)
87-25       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 25(g)(1)(V)
87-26       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 27(a)(14)
87-27       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 29(c)(5)(C)
87-28       6-11-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 29(c)(7)
87-29       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 29(f)
87-30       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 29(f)(1)(B)
87-31       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 30(e)
87-32       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 31(a)(4)
87-33       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 32(a)(4)
87-34       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 33(a)(4)
87-35       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 34(a)(2)(B)
87-36       6-11-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 34(a)(2)(F)
87-37       6-11-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 36(a)(2)(F)
87-38       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 36(a)(4)(B)
87-39       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 36(a)(4)(E)
87-40       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 37(e)(3)
87-41       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 37(e)(6)
87-42       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 38(b)(2)
87-43       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 38(f)(1)
87-44       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 38(f)(5)
87-45       6-11-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 40(b.1)(2)
87-46       6-11-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 40.1(d)(2)
87-47       6-11-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 41(b)(8)
87-48       6-11-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 41(c)(6)
87-49       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 41(e)(1)
87-50       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 41(e)(5)
87-51       6-11-87  1    Rpld  App. A, § 42(c)(4)
87-52       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 42(e)(1)
87-53       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 42(e)(5)
87-54       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 46
87-55       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 46
87-56       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 47(h)
87-57       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 48(b)
87-58       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 49(a)(2)(B)(ii)
87-59       6-11-87  1          App. A, §§ 49(a)(3)(A)(i)
87-60       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 49(a)(3)(A)(ii)
87-61       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 53(a)(1)(A)
87-62       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 53(a)(1)(D)
87-63       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 53(a)(5)
87-64       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 53(a)(7)
87-65       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 54(b)(1)(D)(i)
87-66       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 54(c)(1)
87-67       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 54(d)(1)
87-68       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 55(b)(2)
87-69       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 55, (d)(1)
87-70       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 59(b)(2)(A)
87-71       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 66(a)(1)(C)
87-72       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 66(a)(3)(D)
87-73       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 66(a)(3)(B)
87-74       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 74(a)
87-75       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 74(a)
87-76       6-11-87  1          App. A, § 74(a)
87-77       7-23-87  1          App. A, § 66(a)(3)(G)
87-85       9-24-87  1          App. A, § 28(a)
                     2    Rpld  App. A, § 28(b)(1)
                     3, 4 Rpld  App. A, § § 28(b)(8), (9)
                     5          App. A, § 28(b)(6)
                     6          App. A, § 28(c), (d)
87-86       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 29(c)(7)
87-87       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 28(b.1)(2)
87-88       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 34(a)(2)(F)
87-89       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 35(a)(1.1)(B)
87-90       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 36(a)(2)(E)
87-91       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 37(c)(3)
87-92       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 38(c)(4)
87-93       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 39(c)(5)
87-94       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 40(b.1)(2)
87-95       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 40.1(d)(2)
87-96       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 41(c)(6)
87-97       10- 8-87 1          App. A, § 42(c)(4)
88-9        5-26-88  1          App. A, § 28(b.1)(3)
88-13       8-25-88  1          App. A, § 42.9
88-18       10-13-88 1          App. A, § 25(o)(1)
88-19       10-13-88 1          App. A, § 25(o)(5)(M)
88-22       10-27-88 1          App. A, §§ 124, 129(a), (b), (b)(7)—(10), 130
                          Added App. A, § 131(4)
                          Rnbd  App. A, § 131(4)—(7)
                          as    App. A, § 131(5)—(8)
                                App. A, §§ 132(1), (2),
                                133(2)a., 134(3), (4),
                                135(tit.), 135—137
88-22a      10-27-88 1          App. A, § 36(a)(4)(B)
88-23       10-27-88 1          App. A, § 16(a)—(d)
88-24       10-27-88 1          App. A, § 29(a)
88-25       10-27-88 1          App. A, § 30(a)
88-26       10-27-88 1          App. A, § 42.63(c)
89-1        1-12-89  1          App. A, § 25(g)(1)(U)
89-3a       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 2
                     2          App. A, § 5
                     3          App. A, § 12
89-4        2-23-89  1    Rpld  App. A, § 25(g)(1)(R)
89-5        2-23-89  1    Rpld  App. A, § 25(g)(1)(U), (V)
89-6        2-23-89  1          App. A, § 25(o)
89-7        2-23-89  1          App. A, § 25(q)
89-8        2-23-89  1          App. A, § 32(a)(2)(B)
89-9        2-23-89  1          App. A, § 33(a)(2)(A)(i)
89-10       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 34(a)(2)(B)
89-11       2-23-89  1    Rpld  App. A, § 36(a)(2)(C)(ii)
89-12       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 36(a)(4)(B)
89-13       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 37(e)(3)
89-14       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 38(f), (1)
89-15       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 40.1(h)(1)
89-16       2-23-89  1    Rpld  App. A, § 40.1(1)(2)
89-17       2-23-89  1    Rpld  App. A, § 40.1(i) (Tables II—V)
89-18       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 40.1(j)6), (7)
89-19       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 40.1
89-20       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 41(e)(1)
89-21       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 42(e)(1)
89-22       2-23-89  1    Rpld  App. A, § 43(e)(3)
89-23       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 56(b)(3)
89-24       2-23-89  1    Rpld  App. A, § 86(a)(5)
89-26       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 36(a)(4)(B)
89-27       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 37(e)(3)
89-28       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 38(f)(1)
89-29       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 41(e)(1)
89-30       2-23-89  1          App. A, § 42(e)(1)
89-36       5-11-89  1          App. A, §§ 200—223
89-39       7-13-89  1          App. A, § 83(a)
                     2          App. A, § 83(c)
                     3          App. A, § 88(a)(2)
89-40       7-27-89  1          App. A, § 30(d)
89-40a      7-27-89  1          App. A, § 29(d)(2)(R)
89-43       9-14-89  1          App. A, § (h)(16)
89-44       9-14-89  1          App. A, § (o)(7)(C)
89-45       9-14-89  1          App. A, § (o)(10)(B)(i)(cc)
89-46       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 25(p)(2)
89-47       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 25(q)(2)
89-48       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 25(g)(3)
89-49       9-14-89  1          App. A, §§ 25(o)(3)(G)—(L), (4)(C)(ii), (5)(C), (7)(A)(iii), (7)(E)(i), (7)(I),
                                (7)(J), (10)(A)(vi)
89-50       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 29(c)(3)
89-51       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 36(a)(1)(E)
89-52       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 36(a)(2)(C)
89-53       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 40.1(e)(4)(D)
89-54       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 43(f)
89-55       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 47(i)
89-56       9-14-89  1    Rpld  App. A, § 48(b)
89-57       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 48(e)(1)
89-58       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 49(a)(3)(A)
89-59       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 51(a)(1)
89-60       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 53(a)(1)(E)
89-61       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 53(a)(1)(H)
89-62       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 55.1(a)
89-63       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 66(a)(1)(C)
89-64       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 86(a)(1)(o)
89-65       9-14-89  1          App. A, § 195(a)(1)
89-75       9-28-89  1, 2       App. A, § 42.63(a), (b)
                     3    Rpld  App. A, § 42.63(c)
                     4          App. A, § 42.64
89-76       9-28-89  1          App. A, § 86(a)(2)(e)
90-1        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 64(a)(2)
90-2        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 29(e)
90-3        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 34(a)(2.1)
90-4        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 35(a)(1.2)
90-5        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 36(a)(2.1)
90-6        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 37(d)
90-7        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 38(e)
90-8        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 39(d)(1)
90-9        1-11-90  1          App. A, § 40(b.2)
90-10       1-11-90  1          App. A, § 40.1(e)(7)
90-11       1-11-90  1          App. A, § 41(d)
90-12       1-11-90  1          App. A, § 42(d)(4)
90-13       1-11-90  1          App. A, § 28(c)(3)
90-14       1-25-90  1          App. A, § 41(d)(1)
90-15       2- 8-90  1          App. A, §§ 118.50, 118.51, 118.54, 118.56
90-27       4-12-90  1          App. A, §§ (b)(5), 98(b), 107(a)(2)—(5)
90-31       4-26-90  1    Rpld  App. A, § 119—119.6
90-32       6-14-90  1          App. A, § 36(a)(1)(A)
90-33       6-14-90  1          App. A, § 37(b)(4)
90-34       6-14-90  1          App. A, § 38(b)(2)
90-35       6-14-90  1          App. A, § 39(b)(4)
90-36       6-14-90  1          App. A, § 40.1(c)(11)
90-38       6-14-90  1          App. A, § 25(n)
90-39       6-14-90  1          App. A, § 85
90-40       6-14-90  1          App. A, § 118.51
90-43       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 29(e)(5), (6)
90-44       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 46
90-45       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 46
90-46       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 48(e)(1)
90-47       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 49(a)(3)(1)
90-48       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 51(a)(1)
90-49       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 52(b)
90-50       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 54(b)(1)(F)
90-51       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 54(a)(8)
90-52       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 55(d)
90-53       9-13-90  1          App. A, § 55(e)
91-1        1-10-91  1          App. A, § 47(j)
91-2        1-10-91  1          App. A, § 132(1)
91-4        2-14-91  1          App. A, §§ 42.70—42.76, 42.79—42.81
91-8        3-14-91  1          App. A, § 28(b.1)(1)
91-9        3-14-91  1          App. A, § 29(c)(6)
91-10       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 34(a)(2)(E)
91-11       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 35(a)(1.1)(A)
91-12       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 36(a)(2)(D)
91-13       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 37(c)(2)
91-14       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 38(c)(3)
91-15       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 39(c)(4)
91-16       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 40(b.1)(1)
91-17       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 40.1(d)(3)
91-18       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 41(c)(5)
91-19       3-14-91  1          App. A, § 42(c)(3)
Unified
Development               Rpld  App. A, Planning and Zoning
Ordinance
                          Added App. A, Unified Development Ordinance
92-32       5-14-92  1    Added App. A, Ch. 8, Pt. 9
                                App. A, Ch. 10, Pt. 6
                     2    Rnbd  App. A, Ch. 8, Pts. 9—17
                          As    App. A, Ch. 8, Pts. 10—18
92-33       5-14-92  1          App. A, §§
                                2.1.4,
                                3.8.2(h),
                                5.6.1(c), 5.6.4(a)(4)(vii),
                                5.6.4(a)(5)(vi), (f),
                                5.6.5(a)(1)(ii)(12),
                                5.7.1(a)(2),
                                5.7.3(d)(24), (26),
                                5.7.3(e)(6)
                                5.7.10(e)(9), 8.14.3(f),
                                8.15.2(q), 13.2.10(b),
                                14.1.5(d)(6), 18.1.1(a)
                          Added App. A, § 5.8.4
                          Rpld  App. A, §§ 5.6.4(a)(4)(viii),
                                18.14.3(f)
92-34       5-14-92  1          App. A, §§
                                2.1.4, 14.1.2, 14.1.3, 14.1.11
92-39       6-25-92  1          App. A, §§ 8.10.2, 17.1.5
93-30       5-13-93  1          App. A, § 15.1.15(b)
93-31       5-27-93  1          App. A, §§
                                2.1.4, 5.6.4.(a)(4)(xi),
                                5.6.4.(a)(5)(iii), 5.7.3.(d)(22),
                                5.7.3.(e)(3)(ii)
93-32       6-24-93  1          App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                          Rnbd  App. A, §
                                3.1.1.(i)
                          As    App. A, §
                                3.1.1.(j)
                          Added App. A, §
                                3.1.1.(i)
                                App. A, §§
                                3.8.2.(h)(9), 5.6.4.(a)(4)(xx),
                                5.6.4.(a)(5)(v), 5.6.5.(a)(1)(v),
                                5.7.3.(d)(27), 5.7.3.(e)(5)(v),
                                6.1.2.(d),
                                10.3.1.—10.3.13.,
                                11.1.4.
                                App. A, §§
93-37       10-28-93 1          2.1.4.
                                5.4.3., 5.5.13.,
                                5.6.1.—5.6.4, 5.6.4.(a)(4)(xviii),
                                5.6.4.(a)(5)(iii), 5.6.4.(a)(5)(v),
                                5.6.4.(g)(5), 5.6.5.(a)(v)(1), 3., (6),
                                5.7.1.(b), (c), Fig. 5.7.1.(c),
                                5.7.3.(d)(10), 5.7.3.(e)(1), (5),
                                5.7.12.(a), 5.14.1.(c), (d),
                                8.1.3., Table
                                8.1.3.,
                          Rnbd  App. A, §
                                8.1.4.
                          As    App. A, §
                                8.1.6.
                                App. A, §§
                          Added 8.1.4.,
                                8.1.5.
                                8.2.2., 8.2.3.,
                                8.3.2.,
                                8.3.3.,
                                8.4.2.,
                                8.4.3.,
                                8.5.2.,
                                8.5.3.,
                                8.6.2., 8.6.3., 8.7.2., 8.7.3.,
                                8.8.1.—8.8.3., 8.8.5., 8.9.2., 8.9.3.,
                                8.10.2., 8.10.3., 8.11.2., 8.11.3.,
                                8.13.2.—8.13.4., 8.14.2.—8.14.4,
                                8.15.2., 8.15.3., 8.16.2., 8.16.3.,
                                8.17.2., 8.17.3., 8.18.2., 8.18.3.,
                                10.1.5., Fig.
                                11.1.1., Tables
                                11.1.3.,
                                11.1.4.,
                                11.1.3.(c)(4), Table 12.1.2.,
                                12.1.3.(e), 12.1.5.(a), 13.1.4., 13.1.5.,
                                13.2.4.(c)(2), 13.2.5., 13.3.1.,
                                14.1.4.(c), 14.1.5.(d), (h),
                                14.2.5.(b), 14.2.7., 15.1.2.(b), (e)(2)—(5), (f), (g)
                                App. A, §§
93-41       12- 9-93 1          2.1.4.,
                                6.1.2.,
                                6.1.4.(e)
                          Rnbd  App. A, §§ 6.1.6., 6.1.7.
                          As    App. A, §§ 6.1.7., 6.1.8.
                          Added App. A, §§ 6.1.6.
                                8.14.4.(d), 8.16.4.(g), 17.1.2.(h)
94-017      7-28-94  1          App. A, § 13.3.1(b)(6)
                                App. A, §§
94-029      9-29-94  1          8.3.5.,
                                8.3.6.,
                                8.4.5.,
                                8.4.6.
                                App. A, §§
95-001      1-12-95             2.1.4,
                                10.3.3, 10.3.7,
                                11.1.3(d), 13.1.3(b)(3), (5), 14.5.3(c)
                                App. A, §§
95-002      1-12-95             3.2.2,
                                3.3.2,
                                3.4.2
                          Rpld  App. A, §§
                                3.5.1—3.5.5
                                App. A, §§
                                3.6.1—3.6.6
                                App. A, §§
                          Rpld  3.7.1—
                                3.7.5
                                App. A, §§ 5.5.9(b), 5.5.10(c), 5.6.3(b),
                                5.7.4(b), 5.7.5, 5.7.6(a), 5.7.7,
                                14.1.4(b), 14.4.2(a), 14.4.3(b), 15.1.2(d),
                                15.1.3(b)
95-008      3- 9-95             App. A, §§ 5.6.4(a)(4)(xii),
                                (a)(5)(ii), (vi),
                                5.7.3(d)(18), (24), (e)(2), (6),
                                14.1.5(n)—(p)
95-009      3- 9-95             App. A, §§
                                2.1.4, 8.17.4, 8.18.4,
                                13.2.8, 15.1.1(a), 15.1.2(a),
                                18.1.2—18.1.4, 18.1.6
95-012      4-13-95             App. A, §
                                5.1.4
95-014      4-27-95             App. A, §§
                                10.4.2(e), 14.3.8(a)
95-017      5-25-95             App. A, §§
                                2.1.4, 5.5.1—5.5.13,
                                5.6.1(c), 5.7.1(b),
                                10.5.1—10.5.11,
                                15.1.2(b), (f), (g)
95-018      5-25-95             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                          Added App. A, § 13.1.9
95-019      6-22-95             App. A, § 13.2.10(c)(2)
95-022      7-13-95             App. A, § 10.4.4(g)
                                App. A, §§
95-026      8-24-95             2.1.4,
                                8.3.4,
                                8.3.5(f), 8.4.4, 8.4.5(f), 8.5.4,
                                8.5.5(g), 8.6.4, 8.6.5(g), 8.7.4,
                                8.7.5(g), 8.8.4(d), 8.8.5(c), 8.9.4(b),
                                8.9.5, 8.10.4(d), 8.10.5(h), 8.11.4(e),
                                8.11.5(h), 8.13.2(t), (u), 8.13.5(c), 8.14.2(dd), (ee),
                                8.14.5, 8.16.2(z), (aa), 8.16.5(c), 8.17.2(v), (w),
                                8.17.5(b), 8.18.2(v), (w), 8.18.5(b), 11.1.5,
                                13.1.10, 14.1.5(c), (d), 17.1.6(g)
95-027      9-14-95  1          App. A, §§ 6.1.5, 13.2.8(f), 17.1.6(i)
95-029      10-26-95      Added App. A, § 13.1.1(f)
95-030      12-14-95            App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                          Added App. A, § 13.1.9
95-032      12-14-95            App. A, §§
                                2.1.4, 5.6.1, 5.6.2
                          Added App. A, § 5.6.3
                          Rnbd  App. A, §§ 5.6.3—5.6.9
                          As    App. A, §§ 5.6.4—5.6.10
                          Rnbd  App. A, § 13.1.1(e)
                          As    App. A, § 13.1.1(g)
                          Added App. A, § 13.1.1(e)
                                App. A, § 13.1.1(g)
                          Added App. A, § 13.2.10(i)
96-005      6-13-96       Rpld  App. A, § 5.5.11(a)
                          Rpld  App. A, §
                                7.1.4(b)
96-007      7-24-96             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                          Added App. A, §§
                                8.3.2(i),
                                8.3.3(i),
                                8.4.2(i),
                                8.4.3(i),
                                8.5.2(h),
                                8.5.3(g), 8.6.2(h), 8.6.3(h), 8.7.2(h),
                                8.7.3(h), 8.8.2(k), 8.8.3(i), 8.9.2(l),
                                8.9.3(e)
96-008      7-24-96             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, § 13.2.3(g)
                          Added App. A, § 13.2.3(l)
96-009      7-24-96             App. A, § 10.3.9(b)(2)
                                App. A, § 10.3.10(b)(1)
96-011      11-14-96            App. A, § 13.3.2(b)(1)
96-013      11-14-96            App. A, § 18.1.2(b)
96-015      12-12-96      Added App. A, § 8.10.2(k)
                                App. A, § 8.10.5(b)
                          Added App. A, § 8.10.5(c)(4)
                                App. A, § 8.10.5(g)(1)
                          Added App. A, § 8.11.2(i)
                                App. A, § 8.11.5(b)
                          Added App. A, § 8.11.5(c)(4)
                                App. A, § 8.11.5(g)(1)
96-016      12-12-96            App. A, § 13.2.6(b)(1)
                          Added App. A, § 13.2.6(e), (f)
96-017      12-12-96            App. A, § 13.2.8(e)(2)
                                App. A, Table 13.2.8
96-018      12-12-96            App. A, § 13.2.8(l)
96-019      12-12-96      Added App. A, § 13.2.5(m)
96-020      12-12-96            App. A, §§ 13.2.8(c)(4), (d)(4), (f)(4), (g)(4)
                                App. A, Table 13.2.8
96-021      12-12-96            App. A, § 13.2.3(d), (l)
                                App. A, § 13.2.5(e)
96-022      12-12-96      Rpld  App. A, § 13.2.6(a)
                          Added App. A, § 13.2.5(n)
96-023      12-12-96      Added App. A, § 13.2.10(j), (k)
96-024      12-12-96      Added App. A, § 13.3.2(a)(5)
                                App. A, § 13.3.2(c)
96-025      12-12-96            App. A, § 13.1.6(a)
97-001      1-23-97             App. A, §
                                3.2.2(a)
                                App. A, §
                                3.3.2(a)
97-002      2-13-97             App. A, § 13.2.10(c)
97-003      2-13-97             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, § 13.2.8(m)
                          Added App. A, § 13.2.8(m)(1)
97-004      2-13-97       Added App. A, § 13.2.8(e)(2)a
97-005      2-13-97       Added App. A, § 13.2.3(m)
97-006      2-13-97             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, § 13.2.4(a)
97-007      2-13-97       Rpld  App. A, § 13.2.10(f)
                                App. A, § 13.2.10(g)
97-008      2-13-97             App. A, § 13.2.8(f)(5)
97-009      2-13-97             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, § 13.1.4(a)
97-010      2-13-97       Added App. A, §
                                3.3.1(d)
97-011      2-13-97             App. A, §
                                11.1.4
                                App. A, § 12.1.4(d)
                                App. A, § 13.1.10(b)
                                App. A, § 14.1.5(f)
97-014      5- 8-97       Added App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, Table
                                8.1.3
                          Added App. A, §
                                8.3.2(j),
                                App. A, §
                                8.4.2(j),
                                App. A, §
                                8.5.2(i),
                                App. A, § 8.6.2(i),
                                App. A, § 8.7.2(i),
                                App. A, § 8.8.2(l),
                                App. A, § 8.9.2(m),
                                App. A, § 8.10.2(l),
                                App. A, § 8.11.2(j),
                                App. A, § 8.12.2(d)
97-016      5- 8-97             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, Table
                                8.1.3
                          Added App. A, § 8.13.2(v),
                                App. A, § 8.13.3(e),
                                App. A, § 8.14.2(ff),
                                App. A, § 8.14.3(g),
                                App. A, § 8.15.2(y),
                                App. A, § 8.15.3(g),
                                App. A, § 8.16.2(bb)
                                App. A, § 8.16.3(j)
                          Added App. A, § 8.17.2(x)
                                App. A, § 8.17.3(d)
                          Added App. A, § 8.18.2(x)
                                App. A, § 8.18.3(d)
                                App. A, § 13.1.5
97-017      5- 8-97             App. A, § 18.1.3(e)
97-018      5- 8-97             App. A, § 13.1.1(b)
97-019      5- 8-97             App. A, § 13.3.2(a)(5)
97-020      5- 8-97             App. A, § 12.1.6(c)
                                App. A, § 13.2.5(b)
97-021      5- 8-97             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
97-022      5- 8-97             App. A, § 7.1.8(d)—(f)
97-023      5- 8-97             App. A, § 5.14.1(a)
97-024      5- 8-97             App. A, § 13.2.10(k)
97-025      5- 8-97             App. A, § 8.2.3
                                App. A, §
                                8.3.3
                                App. A, §
                                8.4.3
                                App. A, § 8.5.3
                                App. A, § 8.6.3
                                App. A, § 8.7.3
                                App. A, § 8.8.3
                                App. A, § 8.9.3
                                App. A, § 8.10.3
                                App. A, § 8.11.3
                                App. A, § 8.12.3
                                App. A, § 8.13.3
                                App. A, § 8.14.3
                                App. A, § 8.15.3
                                App. A, § 8.16.3
                                App. A, § 8.17.3
                                App. A, § 8.18.3
97-026      6-12-97             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, §
                                3.2.1(a)
                                App. A, §§
                                5.4.1—5.4.9
                                App. A, §§ 5.6.1—5.6.10
                                App. A, §§ 5.7.1—5.7.12
                                App. A, § 15.2.1
                                App. A, §§ 17.1.2—17.1.6
97-030      7-23-97  1          App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                          Added App. A, § 13.1.12
                                App. A, §§
97-035      9-24-97             10.1.1—
                                10.1.7
                                App. A, § 14.1.2(d)
                                App. A, § 14.1.11
97-036      9-24-97             App. A, § 13.2.7(e)
                                App. A, § 13.2.9(e)
97-037      9-24-97             App. A, § 8.14.2(gg)
                                App. A, § 8.15.2(z)
97-039      11-13-97            App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, §§
                                4.1.1,
                                4.1.2
                                App. A, §§
                                4.2.1—4.2.5
                                App. A, §
                                7.1.2
                                App. A, § 8.8.1
97-040      11-13-97            App. A, § 10.5.6
98-001      2-12-98             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
98-002      3-26-98             App. A, §§ 13.3.2, 13.3.5
98-004      5-28-98             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                          Added App. A, § 13.1.13
98-005      5-28-98             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
98-006      5-28-98             App. A, §
                                3.2.2
98-011      8-13-98             App. A, § 10.6.4(b)
98-012      8-13-98             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, § 8.13.2(w)
                                App. A, § 8.14.2(hh)
98-013      8-13-98             App. A, §
                                11.1.3(c)(2), (3)
                                App. A, Table
                                11.1.4
98-015      8-27-98             App. A, §
                                10.1.5(a)
98-016      8-27-98             App. A, § 8.8.5(d)(1)
                                App. A, § 8.9.5(c)(1)
                                App. A, §§
98-017      10- 8-98            5.1.1,
                                5.1.2
                                App. A, §
                                5.2.3
                                App. A, § 5.6.11
                                App. A, §§ 5.10.1—5.10.3
98-019      11-12-98            App. A, § 8.17.2(y)
                                App. A, § 8.18.2(y)
98-020      12-10-98      Added App. A, §§ 5.6.12, 5.7.13
99-001      1-14-99             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, § 8.13.5(b)
                                App. A, § 8.14.5(b)
                                App. A, § 8.16.5(a)
                                App. A, § 8.17.5(a)
                                App. A, § 8.18.5(a)
                                App. A, §§ 14.1.1—14.1.15
99-002      1-14-99             App. A, § 15.1.7(b), (f), (g), (m), (n)
                                App. A, § 15.2.1(f), (l)
99-003      1-14-99             App. A, § 8.16.2(cc)
99-005      3-25-99             App. A, § 13.1.10(c), (f), (g)
99-006      5-13-99             App. A, §
                                5.1.1(c)
99-007      5-13-99             App. A, §§ 5.6.2, 5.6.4, 5.6.5, 5.7.1,
                                5.7.6—5.7.8, 5.7.11
99-011      7-22-99             App. A, § 18.1.3(d)
99-012      7-22-99  1    Added App. A, §§ 6.16.1—6.16.7
                     2          App. A, § 5.5.9(b)
                     3          App. A, §
                                7.1.5
99-014      8-12-99             App. A, §§ 14.3.3(b)(2), 14.3.3(b)(6),
                                5.9.4(b), (e), 5.9.6, 5.9.7(d),
                                18.1.1(a), 18.1.2(b)(2)
99-015      8-12-99             App. A, § 14.2.3(b)(1)
                          Added App. A, § 14.2.5(c)
99-016      8-26-99             App. A, § 8.13.4(d)
99-018      9- 9-99             App. A, Table 12.1.2
00-001      1-13-00       Rpld  App. A, §§ 13.2.1—13.2.10
                          Added App. A., §§ 13.2.1—13.2.17
                          Rpld  App. A, §§ 5.12.1—5.12.3
                          Rpld  App. A, § 17.1.4
                                App. A, §§
00-002      1-13-00             2.1.4,
                                4.2.1—4.2.5
                                App. A, §§
                          Added 4.3.1,
                                4.3.2
00-004      3- 9-00             App. A, § 5.6.11
00-006      3- 9-00             App. A, §
                                5.1.1(c)
00-010      5-11-00             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, §§
                          Added 4.4.1,
                                4.4.2
00-011      5-11-00             App. A, §§ 12.1.3, 12.1.5
00-012      5-25-00             App. A, §§
                                10.2.1—10.2.6
                                App. A, §§
00-014      7-11-00             8.3.2,
                                8.4.2,
                                8.5.2,
                                8.6.2, 8.7.2, 8.8.2, 8.9.2,
                                8.10.2, 8.11.2, 8.13.2
00-015      7-11-00             App. A, § 18.1.3
00-016      7-11-00             App. A, § 12.1.2
00-018.1    4-12-01       Added App. A, §§ 14.6.1—14.6.8,
                                14.7.1—14.7-10
                                App. A, § 10.3.12
                                App. A, § 14.1.15(e)
                                App. A, §
                                2.1.4
00-020      8-10-00             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                          Added App. A, § 5.13.10
00-021      8-10-00             App. A, §§ 5.6.1(c)(4), 5.6.2(a), 5.6.3,
                                15.1.5(f, g),
                                2.1.4
00-022      9-14-00             App. A, § 18.1.2(b)(2)
                                App. A, §§ 5.9.2, 5.9.7(d)
00-023      9-14-00             App. A, §
                                11.1.3(c)(2), (3)
00-025      10-12-00            App. A, § 13.1.10
                                App. A, §§ 14.1.4, 14.1.5
                                App. A, §
                                2.1.4
00-026      11- 9-00            App. A, §§
                                10.2.1—10.2.6
00-029      12-14-00            App. A, § 13.1.1(f)
00-030      12-14-00            App. A, § 10.6.4(a)—(c)
01-002      3-22-01             App. A, § 8.14.2(l)
                          Added App. A, § 8.14.4(e)
01-006      4-12-01       Added App. A, § 8.16.4(h)
                          Added App. A, § 8.17.4(e)
                          Added App. A, § 8.18.4(g)
01-008      5-10-01       Added App. A, § 13.2.7
                                App. A, § 13.2.17
                                App. A, § 13.2.4(b)(4), (12), (14), (19), (21), (23)
                                App. A, § 13.2.5
                                App. A, § 13.2.4(1) (table)
01-009      5-10-01             App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, §§ 5.8.1—5.8.4
                                App. A, §§ 14.2.1—14.2.7
01-012      6-14-01       Added App. A, §§ 5.15.1—5.15.6
                                App. A, §§ 16.1.1—16.1.21
01-016      8-23-01             App. A, § 5.6.11(a)
01-020      9-13-01             App. A, § 5.16.7
02-002      1-10-02             App. A, § 13.2.2(c)(1), (d)(1)
                                App. A, §§ 13.2.4(a), (b)(6)c,
                                (b)(12)d, (b)(14)a,
                                (b)(16)d, e, (b)(20)d,
                                (b)(21), (b)(24)a,
                                (b)(25)a, (b)(26)a,
                                13.2.4(c), 13.2.5(f),
                                13.2.7(d)(4)(ii),
                                13.2.7(d)(5)(iv),
                                13.2.17
02-003      2-14-02             App. A, §§ 14.6.1—14.6.8,
                                App. A, §§ 14.7.1—14.7.10
                                App. A, § 10.3.12
                                App. A, § 14.1.15(c)
                                App. A, §
                                2.1.4
                                App. A, §§
02-009      4-11-02             3.2.1,
                                3.2.2(c), 3.2.5
                          Rpld  App. A, §§
                                3.4.1—3.4.6
                                App. A, § 5.7.4(b)
                          Rpld  App. A, § 5.7.5
                                App. A, §§ 5.7.7, 5.7.12
                                App. A, §§
02-010      4-11-02             3.6.1(a),
                                3.6.2(a), (c),
                                3.6.5, 3.6.6(b)
02-014      6-13-02             App. A, §§ 13.2.7(c), 13.2.9
02-015      6-13-02       Added App. A, §§ 5.12.1—5.12.7
                                App. A, §§ 5.6.5(c), 5.7.6, 14.1.9(i),
                                14.1.15(a)—(c), 14.6.3,
                                2.1.4
02-021      9-12-02             App. A, §§ 11.1.9, 13.1.1
                          Rpld  App. A, §§ 13.3.1—13.3.5
                          Added App. A, §§ 13.3.1—13.3.7
02-022      9-12-02             App. A, §§ 8.8.5(d)—(g), 8.10.5, 8.11.5
02-026      12-12-02            App. A, §§
                                2.1.4, 8.13.4, 8.14.4
03-001      1- 9-03             App. A, §§
                                3.6.1(d),
                                3.6.2(a), 3.6.6(a), (b)
 
LAND DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE DISPOSITION TABLE
   This table gives the location within this Land Development Ordinance of
those ordinances adopted subsequent to and including Ord. No. 03-007, adopted
May 22, 2003, effective July 1, 2003. Ordinances not listed herein have been
omitted as repealed, superseded or not of a general and permanent nature.
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Section Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Section         Section this Code
03-007           5-22-03                 Rpld  App. A (UDO), Chs.
                                               1—18
                                               App. A (LDO), Chs.
                               Chs. 1—1Added 1—
                                               12
04-001           1- 8-04                       1.2
                                               3.2.2(A)(5)(a), (b)
                                               3.4.1(D)(5)(a), (b)
                                               3.1.6(Table
                                               3.1-1)
                                               3.4.1(D)(1)
                                               3.4.2(B)
                                               3.9.2(E), (M)
                                         Added 3.10,
                                               3.11
                                               3.17.4(C)(2)(b)
                                               3.17.5
                                               3.19.1(Table
                                               3.19-1)
                                               3.19.1
                                               3.19.1(C)(1)
                                               3.19.3(B)
                                               4.4.5(E)
                                               4.4.6(a)(7)
                                               5.1.2(Table
                                               5.1-1)
                                               5.1.3(Table
                                               5.1-2)
                                         Added 5.2.1(N)
                                               5.2.2(C)(1)(e)
                                               5.2.2(E)(4)
                                         Added 5.2.3(H)
                                               5.3.4(A)(2)
                                         Added 5.3.4(I)
                                               6.1.1(Table
                                               6.1-1)
                                               6.1.1(B)(3)
                                         Added 6.1.1(B)(6)
                                               6.1.3(Table
                                               6.1-2)
                                               6.4.2
                                               7.2.3(Table
                                               7.2-1)
                                               7.2.3(Table
                                               7.2-2)
                                               7.2.4(E)
                                               7.2.5(H)(2)
                                               7.8.2(C)(4)
                                               7.8.2(H)(1)
                                               7.8.3(A)(3)
                                               8.1.4(H)
                                               8.1.7(C)
                                               8.1.7(C)(2)
                                               8.1.8(A)(1)
                                               8.1.8(B)
                                               9.1.6(B)
                                               9.3.2(E)
                                               9.3.2(W)(2)
                                         Added 9.3.2(W)(10)
                                               10.2.1
                                               11.2.2(A), (B)
                                               11.3.5
                                               11.3.7
                                               11.4.3(C)
                                               12.3.2(B)(1)
04-003           4-15-04                 Added 5.3.4(J)
04-006           5-13-04                 Added 9.6.4(A)(2)
04-007           7-15-04                       2.1.2
                                               2.1.3(Table
                                               2.1-1)
                                         Added 3.4.3(G)
                                               3.9.2(H)(3)
                                               3.9.2(K)(2)
                                         Added 3.14.2(D)
                                               3.19.2(A)(1)(a)
                                               3.21.4(D)
                                         Added 3.21.4(E)
                                               4.2.2(N)(7)
                                               4.4.2(E)
                                               4.4.2(G)(4)(d)1.
                                               5.1.2(Table
                                               5.1-1)
                                               5.2.2(B)(1)(a), (f)
                                               5.2.2(B)(2), (3)
                                               5.2.4(D)(3)(c)2
                                               5.3.2(D)(2)
                                               7.2.5(B)(2)(a), (b)
                                               7.2.13(A)(1), (7)
                                               7.2.13(C)(1)(a), (b)
                                               7.2.13(C)(3)
                                         Added 7.2.13(D)
                                         Rnbd  7.2.13(D)
                                         as    7.2.13(E)
                                               Table 9.3-2
                                         Added 9.6.4(C)
                                         Rnbd  9.6.4(C)—(H)
                                         as    9.6.4(D)—(I)
                                         Added 9.6.4(E)
                                         Rnbd  9.6.4(E)—(I)
                                         as    9.6.4(F)—(J)
                                               9.6.4(H)
                                               9.6.4(J)
                                         Added 9.6.5
                                               11.2.2(B)—(D)
                                               12.3.3(D)(1)—(3)
                                               12.4
04-011           9- 9-04                       2.1.3 (Table
                                               2.1-1)
                                               3.4.3(D)(4)
                                         Rpld  3.18
04-012           10-28-04                      9.6.1(Table 9.3-3)
                                         Added 9.6.4(J)
04-013           10-28-04                      9.3-1(Table)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(R)
                                         as    9.3.2(Q)
                                         Added 9.3.2(R)
                                               12.4
05-001           1-13-05                       3.1.6(A)
                                               3.2.2(A)(1)(b)
                                               3.22.3(F)
                                         Added 4.4.4(D)(2)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.4(D)(2)—(5)
                                         as    4.4.4(D)(3)—(6)
                                               4.4.6(G)(7)
                                               4.4.6(G)(8)(b)1.
                                               Table
                                               5.1-1
                                               Table
                                               5.1-2
                                               5.2.1(L)
                                               5.2.2(B)(1)(a)
                                               5.2.3(C)
                                               5.4.6(C)(2)(a)
                                               7.2.8(B)(1)
                                               7.2.11(A)
                                         Added 7.3.2(B)(4), (5)
                                               Table
                                               7.3-1
                                               7.3.2(C)(4)(c)
                                               7.3.2(F)(1)
                                         Added 7.3.4(A)(4)
                                               7.3.5(C)
                                         Added 7.3.5(F)
                                         Rnbd  7.3.5(F), (G)
                                         as    7.3.5(G), (H)
                                               Table 7.3-3
                                               7.3.7(A)(4)
                                               7.3.7(A)(5)9a)
                                               7.3.8(E)(2)
                                               7.3.8(G)(1)
                                               Table
                                               7.8-1
                                               8.1.7
                                               8.1.8
                                               8.1.7(C)(3)
                                               9.6.4(B)(graphic)
                                         Added 9.10.3(A)(4), (5)
                                               10.4.1(tit.)
                                               11.2.2
                                         Added 12.3.4(A)(1)
                                         Rnbd  12.3.4(A)(1)—(3)
                                         as    12.3.4(A)(2)—(4)
                                               12.4
05-002           1-13-05       Pt. 1           12.4
                               Pt. 2           12.4
                               Pt. 3           9.3.2(O)
                               Pt. 4           9.3.2(Q)
                                               9.3.2(Q)(1)(a)
                               Pt. 5     Added 9.3.2(Q)(7), (8)
                               Pt. 6     Added 9.17]
05-006           5-12-05                       7.11.1
                                               7.11.5
                                               7.11.6
                                               7.11.7(C)
                                               7.11.8(B), (C)
                                         Added 7.11.8(D)
                                               7.11.9(C)
                                               7.11.10(A)
                                               7.11.11(A)
                                         Rpld  7.11.11(B)
                                         Rnbd  7.11.11(C), (D)
                                         as    7.11.11(B), (C)
                                         Rpld  7.11.11(C)(1)
                                         Rnbd  7.11.11(C)(2)—(5)
                                         as    7.11.11(C)(1)—(4)
                                               7.11.11(C)(2)
                                         Rnbd  7.11.11(E), (F)
                                         as    7.11.11(D), (E)
                                               7.11.14
                                               7.11.15(A)
                                         Rpld  7.11.15(B)
                                         Rnbd  7.11.15(C)—(F)
                                         as    7.11.15(B)—(E)
                                               7.11.15(B)—(E)
                                               7.11.16
05-007           5-12-05                       Table
                                               5.1-2
                                               9.3.2(H)(1)
                                               9.3.2(H)(2)(b), (c)
                                               9.3.2(H)(3)
                                               9.4.1(B)
                                               9.4.1(H)
                                               9.4.1(M)—(O)
                                               12.4
05-009           6-23-05                       3.23.1(A)
                                               3.23.2(A)(1), (3)—(5)
                                               3.23.2(B)
                                               3.23.3(A)
                                               3.23.3(C)
                                               3.23.3(C)(1)
                                         Rpld  3.23.3(C)(2)—(4)
                                         Rnbd  3.23.3(C)(5)
                                         as    3.23.3(C)(2)
                                               3.23.3(C)(2)
                                               3.23.4(B)
                                               3.23.4(B)(1)
                                               Table 3.23-1
                                               3.23.4(G)(5), (6)
                                               3.23.4(H)
                                               3.23.4(H)(6)
                                               3.23.4(J)
                                               3.23.5(B)(2)
                                         Added 3.23.5(D)
                                         Added 3.23.6(D)
05-015           9- 8-05                 Added 4.4.3
                                         Added Tables
                                               4.4-1—4.4-3
                                         Rnbd  Table
                                               4.4-1
                                         as    Table
                                               4.4-4
                                         Rnbd  Table 4.4-2
                                         as    Table
                                               4.4-5
                                         Added 7.3.2(A)(4)
                                         Rnbd  7.3.2(A)(4)
                                         as    7.3.2.(A)(5)
                                               7.3.2(D)
                                               7.3.2(E)(1), (2)
                                         Rpld  7.3.2(E)(4)
                                               7.3.5(Table 7.3-3)
                                               7.3.7(A)(6)
06-005           3-23-06                       3.23.2(A)(1)
                                         Added 3.23.2(A)(2)
                                         Rnbd  3.23.2(A)(2)—(5)
                                         as    3.23.2(A)(3)—(6)
                                         Added 4.4.2(E)(5), (6)
                                         Rpld  4.4.2(H)(3)(a)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.2(H)(3)(b)—(d)
                                         as    4.4.2(H)(3)(a)—(c)
                                               4.4.2(I)(7)
                                         Added 4.4.2(I)(8)
                                               5.1.2(Table 5.5-1)
                                         Added 5.2.1(L)(4)
                                               12.4
06-009           4-27-06                       1.5.3 (Table 1.5-1)
                                               Ch. 2, Table
                                               2.1-1
                                               Ch. 2,, Table
                                               2.1-1 (note [13])
                                               3.1.5(A)(1)(g)
                                               3.1.6(C)
                                               3.1.6(F)(Table
                                               3.1-1)
                                               3.1.9(B)(5)
                                               3.3.3(tit.)
                                               3.4.1(D)(4)(b)(1)
                                         Added 3.4.1(D)(4)(c)
                                               3.4.1(E)
                                               3.4.1(F)(1)
                                               3.4.1(F)(2)(b)
                                               3.4.1(F)(2)(b)1., 2.
                                         Rpld  3.4.1(F)(2)(b)3., 4.
                                               3.4.1(F)(2)(c)
                                               3.4.2(A),(B)
                                               3.4.2(B)(1)
                                         Rpld  3.4.2(B)(2)
                                               3.4.2(C)(1)
                                         Added 3.4.2(C)(1)(a), (b)
                                               3.9.3(H)
                                               3.11.3(1)
                                               3.19.1(A)(Table
                                               3.19-1)
                                               3.20.4(D)
                                               3.23.2(A)(2)
                                               3.23.6(D)
                                               4.2.3(D)(3)(b)7.
                                               4.4.1(A)
                                               4.4.2
                                               4.4.2(A)—(C)
                                               4.4.2(C)(1)—(3)
                                               4.4.2(D), (E)
                                               4.4.2(E)(2), (3)
                                               4.4.2(E)(4)(a)
                                               4.4.2(E)(5), (6)
                                               4.4.2(F), (G)
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)
                                         Rpld  4.4.2(G)(3)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.2(G)(4)
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)(a)2.
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)(b)—(d)
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)(d)1.
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)(d)1.a., b.
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)(d)2., 3.
                                         Rpld  4.4.2(G)(5)
                                               4.4.2(H)
                                               4.4.2(H)(1)—(3)
                                         Rpld  4.4.2(H)(3)(a)—(c)
                                               4.4.2(H)(4), (5)
                                               4.4.2(I)
                                               4.4.2(I)(1)—(8)
                                               4.4.2(I)(8)(e)
                                               4.4.2(I)(8)(g), (h)
                                               4.4.2(J)
                                               4.4.2(J)(1)—(6)
                                               4.4.2(K)(1), (2)
                                         Rpld  4.4.2(K)(3), (4)
                                               4.4.2(L)—(N)
                                               4.4.2(N)(3)
                                               4.4.4(A)(graphic)
                                               4.4.4(D)(3)
                                               4.4.6(G)(7)(b)
                                               4.4.6(G)(8)(a)2.
                                               4.4.6(G)(8)(c)—(e)
                                               4.4.6(G)(9)(a), (c)
                                         Added 4.4.6(G)(9)(d)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.6(G)(9)(d), (e)
                                         as    4.4.6(G)(9)(e), (f)
                                               4.4.6(G)(9)(e)
                                               4.4.6(I)(3)
                                               5.1.2(Table
                                               5.1-1)
                                               5.2.1(D)
                                               5.2.1(E)(1)(Table
                                               5.2-1)
                                               5.2.1(F)(4)
                                               5.2.1(F)(5)(a)
                                               5.2.1(G)(1)(Table
                                               5.2-2)
                                               5.2.1(H)(3)
                                               5.2.1(K)(1)
                                               5.2.1(L)(2), (3)
                                               5.2.1(L)(3)(c)
                                               5.2.1(L)(4)
                                               5.2.1(L)(4)(a)—(c)
                                               5.2.2(B)
                                               5.2.2(B)(1)(a)
                                               5.2.2(B)(3)
                                               5.2.2(E)(1)
                                               5.2.3(Q)(1)
                                               5.2.4(D)(3)(c)1.
                                               5.3.2(D)(2)
                                               5.3.4(D)
                                               5.4.5(L)
                                         Added 6.3.1(E)
                                         Rnbd  6.3.1(E), (F)
                                         as    6.3.1(F), (G)
                                               6.3.2(D)(4)
                                               7.2.3(A)(2)
                                               7.2.3(D)(1)(a)4.
                                               7.2.3(D)(1)(b)4.
                                               7.2.3(D)(1)(c)3.
                                               7.2.3(J)(4)(a)—(c)
                                         Rpld  7.2.3(J)(4)(d)
                                               7.2.4(C)
                                               7.2.4(D)(2)
                                         Added 7.2.4(I)
                                               7.2.6(C)(3)
                                               7.2.7(B)
                                               7.2.7(C)(1)
                                               7.2.8(C)(9)
                                               7.2.10(F)
                                               7.2.13(A)(7)
                                               7.2.13(C)
                                               7.2.13(C)(1)
                                               7.3.2(C)(4)(c)
                                               7.3.3(D)(Table 7-3.2)
                                               7.3.7(A)
                                         Added 7.3.7(A)(5)—(8)
                                         Rnbd  7.3.7(A)(5), (6)
                                         as    7.3.7(A)(9), (10)
                                         Added 7.3.7(A)(B)
                                         Rnbd  7.3.7(B), (C)
                                         as    7.3.7(C), (D)
                                               7.5.2(A)
                                               7.5.2(A)(1), (2)
                                               7.5.3(C)(1)(a)
                                               7.5.3(C)(1)(b)
                                               7.5.3(C)(2)
                                               7.5.4(A)
                                               7.5.5(A)
                                               7.5.8(C)(5)
                                               7.7.3(C)
                                               7.8.2(D)(1)
                                               7.8.2(D)(1)(Table
                                               7.8-1)
                                         Added 7.8.2(D)(4), (5)
                                               7.10.5(A), (B)
                                         Rpld  7.10.5(B)(1)—(4)
                                               8.1.5(H)(3)
                                               8.1.6(B)
                                         Added 8.1.7(G), (H)
                                               8.1.8(A)
                                               8.1.8(B)
                                               8.5.1
                                               8.5.2
                                               8.5.3(D)
                                               9.1.2(C)
                                               9.1.5(A)
                                               9.1.5(C)
                                         Added 9.2(H)
                                               9.3.1(Table 9.3-1)
                                               9.3.2(E)
                                               9.3.2(N)(3), (4)
                                               9.3.2(Q)
                                               9.3.2(Q)(1)
                                         Rpld  9.3.2(Q)(1)(a), (b)
                                               9.3.2(Q)(2)
                                         Rpld  9.3.2(Q)(2)(a), (b)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(Q)(2)(c)
                                         as    9.3.2(Q)(2)(a)
                                               9.3.2(Q)(2)(a)
                                         Added 9.3.2(Q)(2)(b)—(e)
                                               9.3.2(Q)(3)—(7)
                                               9.3.2(R)(1), (2)
                                         Rpld  9.3.2(R)(8)
                                         Added 9.3.2(W)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(W)
                                         as    9.3.2(X)
                                               9.3.2(X)
                                         Added 9.3.2(X)(1)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(X)(1)—(6)
                                         as    9.3.2(X)(1)(a)—(f)
                                               9.3.2(X)(1)(b)
                                         Added 9.3.2(X)(1)(g)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(X)(7)
                                         as    9.3.2(X)(1)(h)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(X)(8)—(10)
                                         as    9.3.2(X)(1)(i)—(k)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(X)(1)(k)a.—d.
                                         as    9.3.2(X)(1)(k)(1)—(4)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(X)(1)(k)4. 1.—4.
                                         as    9.3.2(X)(1)(k)4.a.—d.
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(X)(1)(k)4. e., f.
                                         as    9.3.2(X)(1)(k)5., 6.
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(X)
                                         as    9.3.2(W)(2)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(W)(2)(1)
                                         as    9.3.2(W)(2)(a)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(W)(2)(a)(a)—(c)
                                         as    9.3.2(W)(2)(a)1.—3.
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(W)(2)(2)
                                         as    9.3.2(W)(2)(b)
                                         Rnbd  9.3.2(W)(2)(b)(a), (b)
                                         as    9.3.2(W)(2)(b)1., 2.
                                               9.3.2(Y)
                                               9.6.1(B)(Table 9.3-3)
                                               9.6.4(C)(3)
                                         Rnbd  9.6.4(C)(4), (5)
                                         as    9.6.4(C)(5), (6)
                                               9.6.4(E), (I), (J)
                                               10.2.1
                                               11.1.3
                                         Added 11.4.3(E)
                                               11.4.4
                                               11.4.8
                                               11.5.2(D)
                                         Rpld  11.6.2(C)(1)
                                         Rnbd  11.6.2(C)(2)—(4)
                                         as    11.6.2(C)(1)—(3)
                                         as    11.6.2(C)(2), (3)
                                               12.4
2007-04          3-22-07                 Rpld  3.1.5(A)(1)(b)
                                         Rnbd  3.1.5(A)(1)(c)—(g)
                                         as    3.1.5(A)(1)(b)—(f)
                                               3.2.2(A)(2)
                                               3.2.2(A)(4)(a), (b)
                                               3.2.2(A)(5)(a)
                                               3.2.2(A)(5)(a)(1)
                                               3.2.2(A)(5)(b)
                                               3.4.1(D)(1), (2), (4)
                                               3.4.1(D)(4)(b)
                                               3.4.1(D)(4)(b)1.
                                               3.4.1(D)(5)(a)
                                               3.4.1(F)(2)(d)
                                               3.4.3(D)(1)
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)(a)
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)(a)2.
                                         Added 4.4.2(G)(3)(a)3.
                                         Added 4.4.2(G)(3)(b), (c)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.2(G)(3)(b)—(d)
                                         as    4.4.2(G)(3)(d)—(f)
                                               4.4.2(G)(3)(f)1.b.
                                               4.4.2(I)
                                         Rpld  4.4.2(I)(1)—(6)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.2(I)(7)
                                         as    4.4.2(I)(1)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.2(I)(8)
                                         as    4.4.2(I)(1)(a)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.2(I)(8)(a)—(h)
                                         as    4.4.2(I)(1)(a)1.—8.
                                               4.4.2(I)(1)(a)8.
                                               4.4.2(K)(1), (2)
                                               Table 5.5-1
                                         Added 6.3.1(F)
                                         Rnbd  6.3.1(F), (G)
                                         as    6.3.1(G), (H)
                                         Added 7.2.7(J)
                                         Added 7.2.14(A)—(I)
                                         Rpld  7.3.2
                                         Rnbd  7.3.3—7.3.8
                                         as    7.3.2—7.3.7
                                               7.3.7
                                               7.5.2(A)
                                               7.5.2(A)(2)
                                               7.5.2(B)(1)—(3)
                                               7.5.3(tit.)
                                         Added 7.5.3(A)
                                         Rnbd  7.5.3(A)—(C)
                                         as    7.5.3(B)—(D)
                                               7.5.3(B), (C)
                                         Added 7.5.3(C)(6), (7)
                                               7.5.3(D)(1)(a)—(d)
                                               7.5.3(D)(1)(d)2.a.—c.
                                               7.5.3(D)(2)
                                               7.5.3(D)(2)(a)
                                               7.5.3(D)(2)(b)1., 2.
                                         Added 7.5.3(E)—(H)
                                               7.5.4,
                                               7.5.5
                                               7.5.6
                                               7.5.7(A), (C)
                                               7.5.8(intro )
                                               7.5.8(C)(3), (4)
                                               12.4
                                               3.16.2(C)
                                               3.19.3(intro )
                                               3.19.3(A), (B), (D)
                                               3.20.2(D), (E)
                                               3.20.4(C)
                                               3.21.3(C)
                                               3.21.6
                                               3.22.4(D)
                                               3.22.5(B)(7)
                                               4.2.3(D)(6)(b)
                                         Added 4.4.1(B)
                                         Rnbd  4.4.1(B)—(D)
                                         as    4.4.1(C)—(E)
                                               4.4.5(D)(1)(j)
                                               5.1.3(Table
                                               5.1-2)
                                               5.4.2(Table
                                               5.4-1)
                                         Added 5.2.1(J)
                                         Rnbd  5.2.1(J)—(N)
                                         as    5.2.1(K)—(O)
                                         Rpld  5.4.7(D)(1)(a)
                                         Rnbd  5.4.7(D)(1)(b)—(g)
                                         as    5.4.7(D)(1)(a)—(f)
                                               6.4.2(B)
                                               7.1.5(A)(4)
                                               7.2.5(H)(3)
                                               7.2.5(B)(1)(c)
                                               7.2.5(C)
                                               7.2.13(A), (C)
                                               7.2.13(C)(1)(a)
                                               7.2.13(E)
                                               7.3.1
                                         Rnbd  Table 7.3-2
                                         as    Table
                                               7.3-1
                                         Rnbd  7.3.4
                                         as    7.3.3
                                         Rnbd  7.3.5
                                         as    7.3.4
                                               7.3.4(intro )
                                               7.3.4(D)
                                         Rnbd  Table 7.3-3
                                         as    Table 7.3-2
                                               7.3.4(Table 7.3-2)
                                               7.3.6
                                               7.3.8(E)
                                               7.10.3(B)(1)
                                               8.2.3(G)(2)
                                               8.3.2
                                               9.3.2(H)(2)(c)
                                         Added 9.3.2(H)(6), (7)
                                               9.3.2(V)(2)
                                               9.6.1(Table 9.3-3)
                                               9.6.4(F)
                                               9.6.4(J)(2)
                                               9.8.1
                                               9.8.3(E)
                                               9.10.3(B)
                                               9.11.6(A)
                                               9.16(A), (B)
                                               11.4.3(B)
                                               11.5.1(intro ¶)
                                               11.5.1(A)
                                               11.5.2(intro ¶)
                                               11.5.2(C)
                                               12.3.2(A)(2)
                                               12.3.3(D)(2)
                                               12.3.5(A)(1)
2007-21          12-13-07                      3.4.1(D)
                                               3.8.2(E)
                                               3.8.4(A)—(D)
                                         Added 3.8.4(E)
                                               3.8.5
                                         Added 3.8.6
                                               3.23
                                               3.23.1
                                               3.23.4(A)—(D)
                                               3.23.4(G)(6)
                                               3.23.4(H)
                                               3.23.5(A)
                                               3.23.6(A)—(D)
                                               4.2.2(K)(4)(h) (Table
                                               4.2-1)
                                               4.4.2(H)(5)
                                               5.2.2(B)(1)(a)
                                               5.2.2(B)(2)
                                               5.4.7(G)
                                               6.1.1(B)
                                               7.2.4(D)(3)
                                               7.2.14(D), (E)(1)
                                               7.5.3(H)(5)
                                               7.5.7(A)
                                               7.8.2(C)(4)
                                               7.8.2(D)(1) (Table 7-8.1)
                                               7.8.2(E)(1) (Table 7-8.3)
                                         Added 7.8.2(G)(8)
                                               7.10.1
                                               7.10.3(A)
                                         Added 7.10.6
                                               8.1.4(D)
                                               9.3.2(A), (F)
                                               9.3.2(X)(1)(f), (g)
                                               9.6.4(C)
                                               9.8.3
                                               9.8.5
                                               10.4.2
                                               11.2.2(A), (B)
                                               11.3.1
                                               11.5.1
                                               12.4
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date  Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date       Section this Code
2008-03          1-24-08       3-1-08         Added 8.6
2008-07          5-8-08        7-1-08               7.11
2008-LDO-01      9-25-08       11-30-08             3.1.6
                                                    3.9.2(B), (F), (H)
                                                    3.9.3(E), (F)
                                                    3.23.2(A)
                                                    3.23.4(D), (J)
                                                    3.23.5(B), (D)
                                                    4.2.2(N)
                                                    4.2.3(D)(7)
                                                    4.4.4(B), (D)
                                                    4.4.6(D), (F), (Table
                                                    4.4-4), (Table
                                                    4.4-5), (G), (H)
                                                    5.1.2 (Table
                                                    5.1-1)
                                                    5.1.3 (Table
                                                    5.1-2)
                                                    5.1.4 (Table
                                                    5.1-3)
                                                    5.2.1(E)-(L)
                                                    5.2.2(B)
                                                    5.2.3(N)
                                                    5.2.4(A), (B), (D), (F)
                                                    5.3.2(D)
                                                    5.3.4(C), (I)
                                                    5.4.1
                                                    5.4.2 (Table 5.4-1)
                                                    5.4.6(A)
                                                    6.1.1(B)
                                                    6.1.2
                                                    6.1.3 (Table
                                                    6.1-2)
                                                    6.2.2(A)
                                                    6.3.1
                                                    6.4.2
                                                    7.2.3(A), (B), (D)
                                                    7.2.4
                                                    7.2.6
                                                    7.2.7(J)
                                                    7.2.8(C)
                                                    7.2.9
                                                    7.2.10
                                                    7.2.14(B), (F), (I), (Table
                                                    7.2-5), (Table 7.2-6)
                                                    7.3.3
                                                    7.3.6(G)
                                                    7.5.3(G), (H)
                                                    7.7.3
                                                    7.8.2(C)(4), (C)(8), (D)
                                                    (1), (Table
                                                    7.8-1), (G)(8)
                                                    7.10.3
                                                    7.10.4(A)
                                                    8.1—8.6
                                                    9.1.2(C)
                                                    9.1.5(A)-(D)
                                                    9.3.2(P), (V), (X)
                                                    9.4
                                                    9.6,
                                                    9.6.1, Table 9.3-3,
                                                    9.6.2,
                                                    9.6.3
                                                    9.8.2
                                                    9.11.6
                                                    11.4.3
                                                    12.3.3(D)
                                                    12.4
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date  Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date       Section this Code
2009-LDO-01      2-12-09       3-12-09              3.9.3(E)
                                                    4.2.3(B), (D)
                                                    7.2.3(A), (D)
                                                    7.2.4(A) - (F), (H)
                                                    7.2.5(B), (D)
                                                    7.2.6(A), (C), (D)
                                                    7.2.9(D), (E), (H) - (L)
                                                    7.2.10
                                                    7.2.13(A) - (D)
                                                    7.4.3(G) - (J)
                                              Added 8.6.3
                                                    12.4
2009-LDO-02      3-26-09       4-27-09              4.4.3
                                                    8.4
                                                    12.4
2009-LDO-03      5-14-09       6-15-09              Table 4.2-1
                                                    8.1.2
                                                    9.3.2(E), (G), (H), (N),
                                                    (P)
                                                    9.9.2
                                                    9.11.1—
                                                    9.11.8
                                                    10.5.1
                                                    10.5.3(C)
                                                    12.4
2009-LDO-04      7-23-09       7-23-09              10.1.6
                                                    10.1.7
                                                    10.1.8
                                                    10.2.1
                                                    3.11
2009-LDO-05      7-23-09       7-23-09              7.11.11(E)
2009-LDO-06      8-13-09       8-13-09              3.1.5(A)
                                                    Table 3.1-1
                                                    3.1.9(B)
                                                    3.4.1(B), (F)
                                                    3.4.2
                                              Added 3.4.5
                                                    3.19.2(C)
                                                    4.4.1
                                                    4.4.2
                                              Added 4.5
2010-LDO-01      1-14-10       1-14-10              1.9
                                                    3.9.2(B)
                                                    3.14.2(D)
                                                    3.21.2
                                                    3.21.3
                                              Added 3.24
                                                    4.2.3(D)
                                                    4.4.4
                                                    4.4.6
                                                    5.1.2
                                                    5.1.3
                                                    5.1.5
                                                    5.2.2(B), (C), (E)
                                                    5.2.3
                                                    5.3.2(D)
                                              Added 5.3.4(K)
                                                    6.1.1 -
                                                    6.1.4
                                                    6.3.1(H)
                                                    6.3.2
                                                    7.2.6
                                                    7.2.7(C)
                                                    7.2.13
                                                    7.2.14(G)
                                              Added 7.3.7
                                                    7.5.2(B)
                                                    7.5.3(G)
                                                    7.8.2(C)
                                                    7.8.3
                                                    8.1.1
                                                    8.1.4(D)
                                                    11.2.1
                                                    11.2.2
                                                    12.3.1(C)
                                                    12.3.3(I)
                                                    12.3.4(L), (M)
                                                    12.4
                                                    Tables
2010-LDO-02      1-28-10       1-28-10              5.1-1,
                                                    5.1-2
                                                    5.2.2(B)
                                                    5.3.4(L), (M)
                                                    6.1.3
                                                    Table
                                                    7.2-2
                                                    Table
                                                    7.8-1
                                                    12.3.3(D)
2010-LDO-03      2-25-10       2-25-10              4.2.2
                                                    Tables
                                                    5.1-1,
                                                    5.1-2
                                                    5.2.3
                                                    Table
                                                    7.8-1
                                                    7.9.3
                                                    9.1.2
                                                    9.2
                                                    9.3.2
                                                    Table 9.3-3
                                                    9.4
                                                    9.6.1
                                                    10.3.6
                                                    12.3.4
                                                    12.4
2010-LDO-04      9-30-10       9-30-10        Added 8.1.9
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date  Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date  Section this Code
2010-LDO-05      12-16-10      12-16-10        3.1.6
                                               Table
                                               3.1-1
                                               3.23.3
                                               3.23.4
                                               Table
                                               5.1-1
                                               Table
                                               5.1-3
                                               5.2.2
                                               5.2.4
                                               Table
                                               6.3-1
                                               7.1.5
                                               7.2.3
                                               7.2.4
                                               7.4.3
                                               7.10.4
                                               7.10.6
                                               8.1.7
                                               8.2.3
                                               12.3.3
                                               12.4
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date  Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date       Section this Code
2011-LDO-01      1-11-11       1-11-11              Table
                                                    2.1-1
                                                    3.1.7
                                                    3.7.4
                                                    3.8.2
                                                    3.8.3
                                                    3.9.2
                                                    3.9.3
                                                    3.10.1
                                                    3.12.2
                                                    3.12.4
                                                    3.13.4
                                                    3.16.4
                                                    3.17.4
                                                    3.17.5
                                                    3.19.1 -
                                                    3.19.3
                                                    3.21.1
                                                    3.21.2
                                                    3.22.6
                                                    4.4.5
                                                    Tables
                                                    5.1-1,
                                                    5.1-2
                                                    5.2.1 -
                                                    5.2.3
                                                    5.3.4
                                                    5.4.5 -
                                                    5.4.7
                                                    7.2.10
                                                    7.6.5
                                                    Table
                                                    7.8-1
                                                    7.8.2
                                                    7.8.6
                                                    7.11.8
                                                    7.11.20
                                                    8.1.7
                                                    10.3.3
                                                    12.3.1
                                                    12.3.2
                                                    12.4
2011-LDO-02      4-14-11       4-14-11        Added Ch. 9A
                                              Added Ch. 9B
                                                    3.16.2
                                                    3.16.4
                                              Rpld  3.16.6
                                                    3.20.2
                                                    5.3.2
                                                    5.4.5,
                                                    5.4.6
                                                    Table 5.4-1
                                                    9.1.5
                                                    9.3.2
                                                    9.6.1
                                              Rpld  9.8.6
                                                    11.6.1,
                                                    11.6.2
                                                    12.4
2011-LDO-03      7-14-11       7-14-11              7.2.14
                                                    Table 7.2-5
                                                    Table 7.2-6
2011-LDO-04      11-17-11      11-17-11             1.6.2—
                                                    1.6.4
                                                    3.4.1
                                                    3.9.2
                                                    3.19.1
                                                    3.24.1
                                                    4.4.4
                                                    5.2.1
                                                    5.3.2
                                                    6.3.2
                                                    7.1.5
                                                    7.2.3,
                                                    7.2.10
                                                    10.4.1
                                                    10.5.1
                                                    11.2.3
                                                    Tables 5.1-1,
2011-LDO-05      12-15-11      12-15-11             5.1-2,
                                                    5.1-3
                                                    5.2.1,
                                                    5.2.3
                                                    7.2.3
                                                    9A.1.5
                                                    9A.3.1
                                                    Table 9A.3-1
                                                    12.3.2,
                                                    12.3.4
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date  Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date       Section this Code
12-LDO-01        2-23-12       2-23-12              Table 2.1-1
                                              Added 3.25,
                                                    3.26
                                                    Tables 5.1-1,
                                                    5.1-2
                                                    5.2.1,
                                                    5.2.2
                                                    5.3.2
                                                    6.1.3,
                                                    Table 6.1-3
                                                    7.2.3
                                                    7.2.14
                                                    Table 7.2-6
                                                    7.8.1,
                                                    7.8.2,
                                                    Table 7.8-1
                                                    9A.3
                                                    9B.2
                                                    10.5.1,
                                                    10.5.3
                                                    12.3.2,
                                                    12.3.4
                                                    12.4
2012-LDO-02      3-7-12        3-7-12               3.10
                                                    8.1.1,
                                                    8.1.3
2012-LDO-03      5-10-12       5-10-12              Table 2.1-1
                                                    3.8
                                                    3.9.2
                                                    Table 5.1-1
                                                    5.2.4
 
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date  Section this Code
Ordinance Number Adoption Date Effective Date        Section this Code
2012-LDO-04      5-24-12       5-24-12               2.1.1
                                                  Table 2.1-1
                                              Rp2.5
                                                  3.2.2
                                                  3.8.2
                                                  3.9.2
                                                  3.20.2,
                                                      3.20.4
                                                  4.2.2
                                                  Table 5.1-1
                                                  5.2.3
                                                  Table 5.2-2a
                                                  5.3.1,
                                                      5.3.2
                                                  7.8.2,
                                                      7.8.3
                                                  9.16
                                                  9A.1.3, 9A.1.7
                                                  9A.2.4
                                                  9A.3.1
                                                  12.3.4
2012-LDO-05      6-14-12       7-1-12                8.2.3
                                           Rpld    8.2.4
                                           Added   8.2.4
2012-LDO-06      8-9-12        8-9-12                Table 2.1-1
                                                  3.19.1
                                                  5.3.4
                                                  Table 5.4-1
                                           Rpld    5.4.3
                                                  5.4.7
                                                  7.1.4
                                                      7.2.6,
                                                  7.2.8,
                                                      7.2.9
                                                      7.7.3,
                                                  7.7.4,
                                                      7.7.5
                                                  7.8.2
                                                  7.10.3,
                                                      7.10.4
                                                  12.4
                                                      Tables
2012-LDO-07      8-23-12       8-23-12               5.1-1,
                                                      5.1-2
                                                  5.3.4
                                                  12.4
                                                      3.1.8,
                                                      3.4.2,
2012-LDO-08      10-11-12      10-11-12              3.4.3,
                                                      3.4.5,
                                                      3.20.4
                                                  4.4.6
                                                      Tables
                                                      5.1-1,
                                                  5.1-2,
                                                      5.1-3,
                                                      5.2-1
                                                      5.3.2,
                                                  5.3.3,
                                                      5.3.4
                                                  Table
                                                      6.3-1
                                                      7.3.1,
                                                      7.3.2,
                                                  7.3.4,
                                                      7.3.5,
                                                      7.3.7
                                                  Table
                                                      7.3-1
                                           Rpld    Table 7.3-2
                                           Added   7.3.8
                                                  9.3.2
                                                  9A.1.3, 9A.2.2, 9A.2.4,
                                                      9A.3.1
                                                  10.1.7
                                                  11.4.3
                                                  12.3.4,
                                                      12.4
                                                      3.4.1,
                                                      3.4.5,
2013-LDO-01      2-13-13       3-1-13                3.9.2,
                                                      3.10.2,
                                                      3.23,
                                                      3.26.2
                                                  8.1.3
2013-LDO-02      6-13-13       6-13-13               Table 2.1-1
                                                      3.1.9,
                                                      3.1.10,
                                                      3.4.5,
                                                  3.9.2,
                                                      3.9.3,
                                                      3.17.4,
                                                      3.17.8,
                                                      3.19.1
                                                      4.2.3,
                                                  4.4.3,
                                                      4.4.6,
                                                      4.5.2
                                                  Tables 5.1-1,
                                                      5.1-2
                                                  5.2.1,
                                                      5.2.3
                                                  6.1.1,
                                                      6.3.2
                                                  Tables 6.1-1,
                                                      6.3-01
                                                      7.2.3,
                                                      7.2.4,
                                                      7.2.5,
                                                      7.2.6,
                                                      7.2.7,
                                                      7.2.9,
                                                      7.2.13,
                                                      7.2.14,
                                                  7.3.2,
                                                      7.4.3,
                                                      7.5.1,
                                                      7.7.3,
                                                      7.8.2,
                                                      7.8.3,
                                                      7.9.2,
                                                      7.10.3,
                                                      7.10.4
                                                  Table 7.3-1
                                                      8.1.1,
                                                      8.1.3,
                                                      8.1.4,
                                                  8.1.5,
                                                      8.1.7, 8.2.3,
                                                      8.5.4,
                                                      8.5.6
                                           Rpld    8.1.9
                                                  9A.3.1
                                                  11.5.1
                                                      12.3.1,
                                                      12.3.2,
                                                  12.3.3,
                                                      12.3.4,
                                                      12.4
2013-LDO-03      6-13-13       6-13-13               7.9.3
2013-LDO-04      9-26-13       9-26-13               Table 2.1-1
                                                  2.4.2
                                                      3.1.6,
                                                      3.1.7,
                                                      3.8.1,
                                                      3.8.2,
                                                      3.8.4,
                                                      3.8.6,
                                                      3.9.2,
                                                  3.20.1—
                                                      3.20.5,
                                                      3.20.8,
                                                      3.21.2—
                                                      3.21.4,
                                                      3.21.6,
                                                      3.25.1—
                                                      3.25.7
                                                  4.4.2
                                                      Tables
                                                  5.1-1,
                                                      5.1-2,
                                                      5.1-3
                                                  5.2.1,
                                                      5.3.4
                                                  Table
                                                      6.3-1
                                                      7.2.4,
                                                  7.2.5,
                                                      7.2.13
                                                  10.1.8
                                                  12.3.2,
                                                      12.4
2013-LDO–05    10-10-13      10-10-13              9A.1.5, 9A.2.1, 9A.2.3,
                                                      9A.3.1, 9A.3.2
2013-LDO–06    11-21-13      12-13-13              5.2.4
                                                  6.2.2
2013-LDO-07      12-19-13      12-19-13              Table 3.19-1
                                                  7.2.5
                                                  12.4
                                                      3.1.6,
                                                      3.4.2,
                                                      3.4.3,
2014-LDO-01      1-9-14        1-9-14                3.9.3,
                                                      3.21.4,
                                                      3.21.5,
                                                      3.22.6
                                                      Table
                                                  5.1-2;
                                                      5.2.1,
                                                      5.2.4
                                                      6.1.3; Tables
                                                  6.1-1,
                                                      6.1-3;
                                                      6.2.2
                                                  7.2.13
                                                  8.2.6
                                                  9.16
                                                  9A.1.7
                                                  9B.1.6
                                                  12.3.2
2014-LDO-02      6-26-14       7-15-14               1.4.3
                                                      2.1.1,
                                                  2.1.3;
                                                      Table 2.1-1
                                           Added   2.5
                                                      3.1.6,
                                                  3.21.2;
                                                      Table 3.1-1
                                           Added   3.27
                                                  4.4.1
                                           Added   4.4.7
                                                  11.3.1
                                           Added   11.4.9
2014-LDO-03      8-14-14       8-14-14               2.8.2
                                                      3.1.6,
                                                      3.1.9,
                                                      3.4.1,
                                                      3.4.3,
                                                      3.5.1,
                                                      3.5.2,
                                                      3.8.2,
                                                      3.9.2,
                                                      3.10.2,
                                                      3.11.3,
                                                  3.11.5,
                                                      3.11.7,
                                                      3.12.1,
                                                      3.12.2,
                                                      3.13.1—
                                                      3.13.7,
                                                      3.20.4,
                                                      3.21.4,
                                                      3.25.3,
                                                      3.25.6,
                                                      3.26.2
                                                      4.2.2,
                                                  4.4.3,
                                                      4.4.6;
                                                      Table 4.4-5
                                                      5.2.2,
                                                      5.3.3,
                                                      5.3.4,
                                                  5.4.6,
                                                      5.4.7;
                                                      Tables 5.1-1,
                                                      5.1-2
                                                      6.1.1,
                                                      6.1.3;
                                                  Tables 6.1-1,
                                                      6.1-3,
                                                      6.3-1
                                                      7.2.3,
                                                      7.2.4,
                                                      7.2.9,
                                                      7.2.14,
                                                      7.3.4,
                                                      7.4.3,
                                                      7.5.1,
                                                  7.5.6,
                                                      7.8.2,
                                                      7.8.5,
                                                      7.10.3,
                                                      7.10.4,
                                                      7.10.6,
                                                      7.11.16;
                                                      Tables 7.2-6,
                                                      7.8-2
                                                      8.1.1,
                                                      8.1.4,
                                                  8.1.5,
                                                      8.1.7,
                                                      8.1.8, 8.2.3, 8.6.3
                                                  9.10.3
                                                  9A.3.1
                                                  9B.2
                                                  10.1.6,
                                                      10.1.8
                                                  11.2.3,
                                                      11.4.5
                                                  12.4
2014-LDO-04      8-28-14       8-28-14               3.9.2
                                                  Table 6.3-01
                                                      7.2.5,
                                                  7.2.9,
                                                      7.2.10
                                                  12.4
2014-LDO-05      12-11-14      12-11-14              3.4.1,
                                                      3.4.2
                                                  4.4.2
2015-LDO-001     4-21-15       4-21-15               1.4.2,
                                                      1.4.4
                                                      3.1.6,
                                                      3.4.1,
                                                      3.4.5,
                                                  3.19.1, Table
                                                      3.19-1,
                                                      3.26,
                                                      3.27.2
                                                  4.2.2,
                                                      4.4.4
                                                      Tables
                                                  5.1-1,
                                                      5.1-2,
                                                      5.1-3
                                                      5.2.1,
                                                      5.2.3,
                                                  5.2.4,
                                                      5.3.4,
                                                      5.4.6
                                                  Table
                                                      6.1-4
                                                      7.2.7,
                                                  7.2.14,
                                                      7.8.2,
                                                      7.10.4
                                                  Table
                                                      7.2-6
                                                      8.1.4,
                                                  8.1.5,
                                                      8.1.8
                                                  9A.1.3, 9A.2.1, 9A.2.3
                                                  9B.2
                                                  11.2.2
                                                  12.3.4,
                                                      12.4
2015-LDO-002     6-25-15       6-25-15               4.4.3
                                                  6.3.1
                                                  7.11.1—
                                                      7.11.21
                                                      3.2.2,
2015-LDO-003     7-23-15       7-23-15               3.3.2,
                                                      3.4.1
                                                  4.3.5
                                                      Table 5.1-2;
                                                  5.2.3,
                                                      5.3.4
                                                      7.2.3—
                                                  7.2.5,
                                                      7.2.9,
                                                      7.2.13
                                                  8.1.4,
                                                      8.1.8
                                                  11.1—
                                                      11.7
                                                  12.4
2015-LDO-004     8-27-15       8-27-15               3.4.1,
                                                      3.9.2
2015-LDO-005     11-19-15      11-19-15              4.2.2
                                                  7.10.1—
                                                      7.10.3
2015-LDO-006     12-10-15      12-10-15              1.6.5
                                                      3.4.1,
                                                      3.4.4,
                                                  3.4.5,
                                                      3.9.2,
                                                      3.16.5,
                                                      3.19.1
                                                  4.2.2, 4.2.3,
                                                      4.4.6
                                                      5.1,
                                                  5.2.1,
                                                      5.2.3,
                                                      5.3.4
                                           Rpld    5.1.5
                                                      7.2.3,
                                                  7.2.9,
                                                      7.2.11,
                                                      7.9.3
                                                      8.1.4,
                                                  8.1.5,
                                                      8.1.7
                                           Rpld    8.6
                                                  9.3.2
                                                  9A.1.1
                                                  9B.2
                                                  11.7.1
                                                      3.9.2,
                                                      3.9.3,
2016-LDO-01      7-25-16       7-25-16               3.14.5,
                                                      3.17.8,
                                                      3.19.1,
                                                      3.19.2
                                                  Tables 4.2-1,
                                                      4.2-2
                                                      4.2.2,
                                                  4.4.3,
                                                      4.4.4,
                                                      4.4.6
                                                      Tables 5.1-1,
                                                  5.1-2,
                                                      5.2-3
                                                      5.2.2–
                                                  5.2.4,
                                                      5.4.6
                                                  Table 6.1-2
                                                      7.2.5,
                                                  7.2.7,
                                                      7.2.13,
                                                      7.8.2
                                           Added   7.2.15
                                                      8.1.2–
                                                      8.1.5,
                                                  8.1.7,
                                                      8.1.8,
                                                      8.4.5
                                                  11.5.2
                                                      12.3.4,
                                                  12.3.5,
                                                      12.4
2016-LDO-02      12-8-16       12-8-16               3.16.4
                                                      5.3.2,
                                                  5.4.5—
                                                      5.4.7
                                                  Ch. 9
                                           Rpld    Ch. 9A, 9B
                                                  10.5.1,
                                                      10.5.3
                                                  11.7.1,
                                                      11.7.2
                                                  12.4
2017-LDO-01      1-24-17       1-24-17               1.4.1—
                                                      1.4.4
                                                  2.6.2
                                                      3.1.9,
                                                      3.2.2—
                                                  3.2.4,
                                                      3.4.1,
                                                      3.4.4,
                                                      3.4.5
                                                      4.1.3,
                                                      4.2.2,
                                                      Table 4.2-1,
                                                  4.3.2,
                                                      4.4.2,
                                                      4.4.3,
                                                      4.4.6,
                                                      4.5.2
                                                      Table 5.1-1,
                                                  5.2.1—
                                                      5.2.3,
                                                      5.3.4
                                                  7.1.4
                                                      7.2.3,
                                                      7.2.5,
                                                      7.2.8,
                                                  7.2.10,
                                                      7.7.3,
                                                      7.8.2,
                                                      7.10.2,
                                                      7.10.4
                                                      8.1.1,
                                                      8.1.3,
                                                  8.1.4, 8.2.3,
                                                      8.2.6,
                                                      8.5.3,
                                                      8.5.5
                                                  10.1.8
                                                  12.4
2017-LDO-02      3-30-17       3-30-17               3.4.1,
                                                      3.4.2
                                                  5.1,
                                                      5.3.2
                                                  6.3.2
                                                  7.2.3
                                                  12.4
                                                      3.9.2,
2017-ACT-01      10-26-17      10-26-17              3.19.3,
                                                      Table 3.1-1
                                                  4.4.2
                                                      5.2.2,
                                                      5.2.3,
                                                  5.4.6,
                                                      Tables 5.1-1,
                                                      5.1-2
                                                  6.3.2
                                                  Table 7.8-1
                                                  12.3.4
2017-ACT-02      12-14-17      12-14-17              3.4.5,
                                                      3.9.2
                                                  4.5.2
                                                      Tables 5.1-1,
                                                  5.1-2,
                                                      5.2-3;
                                                      5.2.4
                                                  7.8.2
                                                  12.3.5
2018-LDO-01      5-3-18        5-3-18                3.27.1,
                                                      3.27.2
                                                      Tables 5.1-1,
                                                  5.1-2;
                                                      5.2.4
                                                  Table 6.1-3
                                                      7.2.4,
                                                  7.2.10;
                                                      Table 7.8-1
                                                  8.1.3,
                                                      8.1.5, 8.2.3
                                                  9.2.8
                                                  12.3.5,
                                                      12.4
                                                      Table 2.1-1;
2018-LDO-02      8-9-18        8-9-18                2.3.2,
                                                      2.6.2
                                                      3.2.4,
                                                      3.3.2,
                                                      3.4.1,
                                                  3.4.2,
                                                      3.4.3,
                                                      3.4.5,
                                                      3.9.2,
                                                      3.27.1
2018-LDO-03      11-15-18      11-15-18              3.9.3
                                                  5.2.4
                                                  7.10.6
                                                      8.1.3,
                                                  8.1.4,
                                                      8.1.5
                                                  12.4
2018-LDO-04      12-13-18      12-13-18              5.2.4
2019-LDO-01      9-26-19       9-26-19               Table 2-1.1
                                                      3.8.1,
                                                      3.8.2,
                                                      3.8.3,
                                                      3.8.4,
                                                  3.8.5,
                                                      3.9.2,
                                                      3.12.4,
                                                      3.13.3,
                                                      3.17,
                                                      3.19.1
                                                  4.4.6
                                                  5.2.4
                                                      7.2.5,
                                                      7.2.10,
                                                      7.2.14,
                                                  7.2.15,
                                                      7.8.2,
                                                      7.11.8,
                                                      7.11.20
                                                  8.1.5
                                                  10.1.8
                                                  11.5.2
                                           Rpld    3.23
                                                      7.3.3,
2019-LDO-02      11-21-19      11-21-19              7.5.2,
                                                      7.5.3
                                           Added   7.5.9
                                                  12.4
2019-LDO-03      10-10-19      10-10-19       Added   1.11
                                                  2.8.2
                                                      3.1.6,
                                                      3.4.1 -
                                                      3.4.3,
                                                      3.4.5,
                                                      3.8.1,
                                                      3.8.4,
                                                      3.9.2,
                                                  3.12.1 -
                                                      3.12.4,
                                                      3.13.1 -
                                                      3.13.7,
                                                      3.19.2,
                                                      3.21.3,
                                                      3.22.6,
                                                      3.27.1,
                                                      3.27.2
                                           Added   3.1.14
                                           Rpld    3.20.7,
                                                      3.25.6
                                                      4.4.3,
                                                  4.4.6,
                                                      4.5.1
                                                      5.2.4,
                                                  5.4.5,
                                                      5.4.6
                                                      7.2.14,
                                                      7.3.6,
                                                  7.4.3,
                                                      7.5.1 -
                                                      7.5.3,
                                                      7.5.6
                                                  8.1.4,
                                                      8.1.5
                                                  11.2.3,
                                                      11.4.6
                                                  12.4
2019-LDO-04      12-12-19      12-12-19              3.9.2,
                                                      3.19.1
                                                      6.1.3,
                                                  6.4.1,
                                                      6.4.2
                                                  12.4
                                                      3.1.6,
                                                      3.4.1,
2020-LDO-01      5-7-20        5-7-20                3.4.3,
                                                      3.20.2,
                                                      3.20.4
                                                  4.5.2
                                                      5.1.2,
                                                  5.2.1,
                                                      5.3.2
                                                  6.1.1
                                                      7.2.4,
                                                  7.8.1,
                                                      7.8.2
                                                  8.1.4,
                                                      8.2.6
                                                  9.3.3
                                                  12.4
                                                      1.2,
                                                      1.3,
                                                      1.4.1,
                                                      1.5.1,
2021-LDO-01      6-24-21       6-25-21               1.6.1,
                                                      1.6.3,
                                                      1.6.5,
                                                      1.10.2,
                                                      1.10.3
                                           Added   1.12
                                                      2.1.3,
                                                      2.3.2,
                                                  2.4.2,
                                                      2.5.1,
                                                      2.5.2,
                                                      2.6.2
                                           Added   2.8.3
                                                      3.1.1,
                                                      3.1.4 -
                                                      3.1.7,
                                                      3.1.9,
                                                      3.1.10,
                                                      3.1.14,
                                                      3.2.1 -
                                                      3.2.4,
                                                      3.3.2,
                                                      3.4.1 -
                                                      3.4.3,
                                                      3.4.5,
                                                      3.6.1,
                                                      3.8.2 -
                                                      3.8.4,
                                                      3.8.6,
                                                      3.9.1 -
                                                      3.9.3,
                                                      3.11 -
                                                      3.11.4,
                                                      3.12.2,
                                                      3.13.1,
                                                      3.13.3,
                                                  3.13.5,
                                                      3.14.1 -
                                                      3.14.3,
                                                      3.15.1,
                                                      3.15.2,
                                                      3.17 -
                                                      3.17.8,
                                                      3.18,
                                                      3.19.1,
                                                      3.19.2,
                                                      3.20.4,
                                                      3.20.8,
                                                      3.21.2 -
                                                      3.21.4,
                                                      3.21.6,
                                                      3.22.1 -
                                                      3.22.4,
                                                      3.22.6,
                                                      3.24 -
                                                      3.24.2,
                                                      3.25.3,
                                                      3.25.7,
                                                      3.27.1,
                                                      3.27.2
                                           Added   3.1.15,
                                                      3.1.16
                                           Rpld    3.9.4, 3.10
                                                      4.1.3,
                                                      4.2.2,
                                                      4.3.2,
                                                      4.3.4,
                                                      4.3.6,
                                                  4.4.2,
                                                      4.4.3,
                                                      4.4.5,
                                                      4.4.6,
                                                      4.5 -
                                                      4.5.2
                                           Rnbd    4.2.3 to
                                                      4.5.3
                                           Rpld    4.3.5
                                                      5.1,
                                                      5.1.2,
                                                      5.2.1,
                                                      5.2.3,
                                                  5.2.4,
                                                      5.3.4,
                                                      5.4.2,
                                                      5.4.6,
                                                      5.4.7
                                                      6.1.1,
                                                      6.2.2,
                                                  6.3.1,
                                                      6.3.2,
                                                      6.4.2
                                                      7.1.2,
                                                      7.1.3,
                                                      7.2.2 -
                                                      7.2.9,
                                                      7.2.11 -
                                                      7.2.14,
                                                      7.4.3,
                                                      7.5.2,
                                                      7.5.3,
                                                  7.5.8,
                                                      7.6.3,
                                                      7.7.2 -
                                                      7.7.7,
                                                      7.8.2,
                                                      7.8.3,
                                                      7.8.6,
                                                      7.9.1,
                                                      7.9.2,
                                                      7.10.3,
                                                      7.10.4
                                                      ch. 8 (title),
                                                      8.1 -
                                                      8.1.5,
                                                      8.1.7,
                                                  8.1.8,
                                                      8.2 -
                                                      8.2.2,
                                                      8.3,
                                                      8.3.1,
                                                      8.5.4
                                           Rnbd    8.2.6 to
                                                      8.1.9 
                                           Rpld    8.2.5, 8.3.1
                                                  9.2.3 -
                                                      9.2.5
                                                      10.1.6,
                                                  10.1.8,
                                                      10.5.3
                                                      11.1.2,
                                                      11.2.1 -
                                                      11.2.3,
                                                      11.4.1,
                                                  11.4.2,
                                                      11.5 -
                                                      11.5.2,
                                                      11.6.1,
                                                      11.6.2,
                                                      11.7.1
                                           Added   11.7.3
                                                  12.3.2,
                                                      12.4
2022-LDO-01      1-13-22       1-13-22               3.22.1
                                                      5.1.2,
                                                  5.1.3,
                                                      5.3.4
                                                      7.1.1,
                                                      7.2.1,
                                                      7.2.3 -
                                                  7.2.6,
                                                      7.2.9 -
                                                      7.2.11,
                                                      7.2.14
                                                  12.4
2022-LDO-01A     2-24-22       2-24-22               6.1.3
                                                  7.8.2
                                                      3.4.1,
                                                      3.7.1,
                                                      3.9.1,
2022-LDO-02      4-28-22       4-29-22               3.9.3,
                                                      3.13.1,
                                                      3.19.2,
                                                      3.22.3,
                                                      3.24.2
                                                      4.1.3,
                                                      4.2.2,
                                                  4.4.2,
                                                      4.4.3,
                                                      4.4.6
                                                      5.2.3,
                                                      5.2.4,
                                                  5.3.4,
                                                      5.4.6,
                                                      5.4.7
                                                  6.1.1,
                                                      6.3.2
                                                      7.2.3,
                                                      7.2.5,
                                                      7.2.9,
                                                      7.2.10,
                                                  7.2.14,
                                                      7.3.2,
                                                      7.4.3,
                                                      7.8.2,
                                                      7.9.1
                                                      8.1.3,
                                                      8.1.4,
                                                      8.1.7,
                                                      8.1.9,
                                                      8.2.1,
                                                  8.3.1,
                                                      8.4.1,
                                                      8.4.2,
                                                      8.4.7,
                                                      8.4.8,
                                                      8.5.4
                                                      9.1.6,
                                                  9.2.5 -
                                                      9.2.7,
                                                      9.3
                                                      10.3.2,
                                                  10.4.2,
                                                      10.4.3
                                                      11.4,
                                                      11.4.5,
                                                  11.5,
                                                      11.5.1,
                                                      11.6.1,
                                                      11.6.4
                                                      12.3.2,
                                                  12.3.3,
                                                      12.4
                                                      3.12.1 -
2022-LDO-03      10-27-22      10-27-22              3.12.4,
                                                      3.13.1,
                                                      3.13.6
                                                  5.2.3,
                                                      5.2.4
                                                      8.1.3,
                                                  8.1.4,
                                                      8.2.1
                                                      11.2.2,
                                                      11.4,
                                                      11.4.4 -
                                                      11.4.7,
                                                  11.5,
                                                      11.5.2,
                                                      11.6.1,
                                                      11.6.2,
                                                      11.6.5
                                                  12.4
                                                      14.1.1,
                                                      14.1.2,
                                                      14.2.1 -
                                                      14.2.5,
                                                      14.3.1 -
                                                      14.3.18,
                                                  14.4.1 -
                                                      14.4.7,
                                                      14.5.1 -
                                                      14.5.7,
                                                      14.6.1 -
                                                      14.6.16,
                                                      14.7.1 -
                                                      14.7.9
2022-LDO-04      11-17-22      11-17-22              3.4.1
                                                  7.11.11,
                                                      7.11.14
                                                      8.1.4,
                                                  8.1.8,
                                                      8.1.9
                                                      9.2.3 -
2023-LDO-01      2-9-23        2-9-23                9.2.5,
                                                      9.2.7
2023-LDO-02      3-23-23       3-23-23               4.4.6
                                                  7.3.1 -
                                                      7.3.6
                                                  12.4
2023-LDO-03      6-22-23       6-22-23               1.4.4,
                                                      1.5.1
                                                  3.4.5
                                                      4.2.2,
                                                      4.4.2,
                                                  4.4.3,
                                                      4.4.6,
                                                      4.5.2
                                                      5.1.3,
                                                  5.2.3,
                                                      5.2.4
                                                  6.1.3
                                                      7.2.2,
                                                      7.7.2,
                                                  7.7.5,
                                                      7.9.1,
                                                      7.9.3
                                                  8.5.5
                                                  10.1
                                                  12.4
2023-LDO-04      11-16-23      11-16-23              3.9.2
                                                  4.4.6
                                                  5.2.3
                                                      7.2.4,
                                                      7.2.7,
                                                  7.6.5,
                                                      7.7.4,
                                                      7.8.3,
                                                      7.9.3
                                                  8.1.9,
                                                      8.4.3
                                                  11.4.4
2025-CODE-01     4-10-25       6-2-25                4.2.2,
                                                      4.5.3
                                                      5.1.2,
                                                  5.1.3,
                                                      5.3.2,
                                                      5.3.4
                                                  7.8.2
                                                  12.3.2
2025-CODE-02     5-22-25       5-22-25               5.1.3,
                                                      5.3.4
                                                   
STATE LAW REFERENCE TABLE
   This table shows the location within this Land Development Ordinance, either
in the text or notes following the text, of references to the North Carolina
General Statutes.
G.S. Section Section this Code
G.S. Section             Section this Code
1A-1, rule 4             11.4.4
14-202.10                12.3.4
14-414                   5.4.7
ch. 18B                  12.3.5
18B-1000(6)              12.3.4
20-4.01                  12.3.4
ch. 29                   12.4
ch. 47A                  12.4
ch. 47C                  12.4
62-3                     1.6.4
                        7.2.15
ch. 63, Art. 4           1.2
63-1                     14.6.16
63-79(1)                 14.6.16
74-46 et seq.            14.4.5
74-46 - 74-68            3.13.1
74-49(7)                 12.3.5
74-65                    5.2.4
ch. 89B                  14.5.3
105-164.3                12.3.4
105-164.4(a)(4c)         5.2.4
105-164.4(a)(6)          5.2.4
ch. 113A, Art. 4         1.2
113A-50 et seq.          3.13.6
113A-52(8)               3.13.1
113A-57(3)               11.4.6
113A-61                  3.13.3
                        11.2.2
113A-61(C)               3.13.3
113A-64(b)               3.13.4
                        11.4.5
113A-64.2                11.4.4
113A-85                  12.4
115C-457.2               11.4.4
ch. 130A, Art. 9         12.3.5
130A-290                 14.6.5
130A-290(a)(6)           12.4
ch. 136                  1.2
136-18(29)               3.8.4
ch. 143, Art. 8          3.24.1
                        7.11.14
ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 1 1.2
ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6 14.1.2
143-15                   14.7.7
143-128.2                3.24.1
143-129                  3.24.1
143-143.15               14.7.7
143-145(7)               12.3.2
                        12.4
143-212                  14.6.16
143-214                  12.4
143-214.10               14.6.12
143-755                  3.1.14
                        5.2.1
                        6.1.1
ch. 150B, Art. 3         14.6.2
                        14.6.9
                        14.6.11
ch. 150B, Art. 4         14.6.2
                        14.6.9
                        14.6.11
ch. 157                  1.2
ch. 158, Art. 1          3.9.2
                        6.4.2
159-48(b)(1)             14.6.16
159-81                   14.6.16
159-97                   14.6.16
ch. 160A, Art. 3C        12.3.5
ch. 160A, Part 3E        5.2.4
ch. 160A, Art. 8         14.1.2
ch. 160A, Art. 20        1.6.1
160A-31                  3.17.8
160A-58.1                3.17.8
160A-307                 3.8.4
160A-309                 3.24.1
160A-320                 3.24.1
160A-334                 3.9.3
160A-499                 3.24.1
ch. 160D                 1.2
                        12.4
ch. 160D, art. 9, Part 2 14.1.2
ch. 160D, art. 9, Part 3 5.2.4
ch. 160D, art. 9, Part 4 2.5.1
                        2.5.2
                        3.27.2
                        5.2.4
ch. 160D, art. 8         12.4
ch. 160D, art. 10        3.9.2
                        3.24.2
                        6.4.2
160D-102                 12.4
160D-102(7)              3.4.1
160D-106                 3.17.5
160D-108                 3.1.14
                        3.17.1
                        3.17.8
                        12.4
160D-108.1               3.17.1
                        3.17.8
                        12.4
160D-109                 2.8.3
160D-202                 12.4
160D-203                 1.6.1
160D-405                 3.1.16
160D-406(g)              2.4.2
160D-501                 1.4.1
160D-601                 3.4.1
160D-602(b)              3.1.6
160D-605                 3.2.4
                        3.3.2
                        3.4.1
                        3.4.5
160D-702                 3.4.2
                        3.4.3
                        4.5.1
160D-702(b)              3.4.5
                        3.8.4
160D-703                 3.4.1
160D-802                 12.4
160D-804(d)              8.2.2
160D-804.1               8.1.4
                        8.1.7
160D-807                 3.9.3
160D-903                 1.6.5
                        5.2.3
                        12.4
160D-913                 1.6.3
160D-931                 5.2.4
160D-933                 5.2.4
160D-934                 5.2.4
160D-947(c)              3.27.2
160D-947(e)              3.21.4
                        3.27.2
160D-1108                2.8.3
160D-1114                11.2.2
160D-1315                3.9.2
                        6.4.2
160D-1402                3.8.6
                        3.20.8
                        3.21.3
160D-1402(c)             3.1.7
                        3.21.2
160D-1402(j)             3.21.4
160D-1403(b)             3.9.3
160D-1403.1              3.17.8
Ch. 168, Art. 3          12.3.2
                         
 
 
