CHATHAM COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 11-15-2021; and
State legislation current through 2022 A.L.S.#3
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Certain ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
   
10.20   Supplementation of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Chatham County, North Carolina,
shall be designated as the Code of Chatham County, North Carolina, and may be
so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the County of
Chatham, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code, as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Chatham County, North Carolina.
      DAY. A calendar day.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
the persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property, except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any path way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard, parkway,
dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto within the
county and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way or area between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the county shall be by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or" if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the county for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Saturday, Sunday or state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new code by the county.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: "Section
               of the Code of Ordinances, Chatham County, North Carolina, is
hereby amended as follows...." The new provisions shall then be set out in full
as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Code of
Ordinances, Chatham County, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, article or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any and all amending ordinances are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
§ 10.19 CERTAIN ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following
ordinances or resolutions, which are not included herein:
      (1)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the county, or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the county
or any evidence of the county's indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution providing for the levy of taxes or for an annual budget, or
prescribing salaries for county officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance or resolution granting any franchise, permit or other
right;
      (4)   Any ordinance or resolution approving, authorizing or otherwise
relating to any contract, agreement, lease, deed or other instrument;
      (5)   Any ordinance or resolution authorizing or otherwise relating to
any public improvement project or work;
      (6)   Any ordinance or resolution zoning or rezoning specific property or
amending the zoning map; and/or
      (7)   Any temporary or special ordinance or resolution or ordinance or
resolution of limited interest or transitory nature.
   (B)   And all the ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to omit ordinances of the types enumerated above from the code,
see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.20 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by county personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Board of County
Commissioners. A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances passed by the Board of County Commissioners
during the period covered by the supplement and all changes made thereby in the
code. The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivision;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles of sections and
other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter," "this subchapter," "this division" and the like, as the case
may be, or to "sections      to      " (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but, in no case,
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to maintain code by replacement pages, see G.S. § 153A-49
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the county an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in this code of ordinances the doing of an act is
required or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful or an offense
or a misdemeanor, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation
of the provision of this code of ordinances or of any such ordinance shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than
30 days for each separate violation. Each day any violation of this code or any
ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate offense, unless otherwise
specified.
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of the provisions within this code of
ordinances or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall also
subject the offender to a civil penalty of $100 for each day the violation
continues. If the offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days after
being cited for a violation, the penalty may be recovered by the county in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
   (C)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) above, any provision of
this code or other ordinance of the county may be enforced by any one or more
of the remedies authorized by G.S. § 153A-123.
Statutory reference:
   For provisions authorizing counties to punish ordinance violations as
misdemeanors, see G.S. § 14-4
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CODE OF ETHICS OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
         
31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
CHAPTER 30: CODE OF ETHICS OF THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Preamble
   
30.02   Canon One - A County Commissioner shall obey the law
   
30.03   Canon Two - A County Commissioner should uphold the integrity and
independence of his or her Office
   
30.04   Canon Three - A County Commissioner should avoid impropriety and the
appearance of impropriety in all his or her activities
   
30.05   Canon Four - A County Commissioner should perform the duties of the
Office diligently
   
30.06   Canon Five - A County Commissioner should conduct the affairs of the
Board in an open and public manner
   
30.07   Canon Six - A County Commissioner should regulate his or her extra-
governmental activities to minimize the risk of conflict with his or her
official duties
   
30.08   Canon Seven - A County Commissioner should refrain from political
activities inappropriate to his or her Office
§ 30.01 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The stability and proper operation of democratic representative
government depends upon the continuing consent of the governed, upon the public
confidence in the integrity of the government and upon reasonable exercise of
the trust conferred by the people. Government decisions and policy must be made
and implemented through proper channels and processes of the government
structure. The purpose of this code is to establish guidelines for ethical
standards of conduct for County Commissioners. It should not be considered a
substitute for the law.
   (B)   County Commissioners must be able to act in a manner to maintain their
integrity and independence and they must be responsive to the interests and
needs of those they represent. County Commissioners serve in an important
advocacy capacity in meeting the needs of their citizens and should recognize
the legitimacy of this role as well as the intrinsic importance of this
function to the proper functioning of representative government. At the same
time, County Commissioners must, at times, act in an adjudicatory or
administrative capacity and must, when doing so, act in a fair and impartial
manner. County Commissioners must know how to distinguish these roles and when
each role is appropriate and they must act accordingly. County Commissioners
must be aware of their obligation to conform their behavior to standards of
ethical conduct that warrant the trust of their constituents including avoiding
the appearance of conflicts of interest.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2006)
§ 30.02 CANON ONE - A COUNTY COMMISSIONER SHALL OBEY THE LAW.
   County Commissioners shall support the Constitution of the United States,
the Constitution of the state and the laws enacted by the Congress of the
United States and the General Assembly.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2006)
§ 30.03 CANON TWO - A COUNTY COMMISSIONER SHOULD UPHOLD THE INTEGRITY AND
INDEPENDENCE OF HIS OR HER OFFICE.
   County Commissioners should demonstrate the highest standards of personal
integrity, truthfulness, honesty and fortitude in all their public activities
in order to inspire public confidence and trust in county government. County
Commissioners should participate in establishing, maintaining and enforcing,
and should themselves observe, high standards of conduct so that the integrity
and independence of their Office may be preserved. The provisions of this Code
should be construed and applied to further these objectives.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2006)
§ 30.04 CANON THREE - A COUNTY COMMISSIONER SHOULD AVOID IMPROPRIETY AND THE
APPEARANCE OF IMPROPRIETY IN ALL HIS OR HER ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is essential that county government attract those citizens best
qualified and willing to serve. County Commissioners have legitimate interests,
economic, professional and vocational, of a private nature. County
Commissioners should not acquire, retain or pursue private interests, economic
or otherwise, when these action conflicts with their responsibility to the
public or creates the appearance of a conflict.
   (B)   County Commissioners should respect and comply with the law and should
conduct themselves at all times in a manner that promotes public confidence in
the integrity of the Office of County Commissioner and of county government.
   (C)   County Commissioners should not allow family, social or other
relationships to unduly influence their conduct or judgment and should not lend
the prestige of the Office of County Commissioner to advance the private
interests of others; nor should they convey or permit others to convey the
impression that they are in a special position to influence them. Where there
is a clear appearance of undue influence, a County Commissioner should recuse
himself or herself from voting on the matter or participating in its
deliberations.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2006)
§ 30.05 CANON FOUR - A COUNTY COMMISSIONER SHOULD PERFORM THE DUTIES OF THE
OFFICE DILIGENTLY.
   County Commissioners should, while performing the duties of the Office as
prescribed by law, give precedence to these duties over other activities. In
the performance of these duties, the following standards should apply.
   (A)   Legislative responsibilities.
      (1)   County Commissioners should actively pursue policy goals they
believe to be in the best interest of all residents within the parameters of
orderly decision making, rules of the Board of County Commissioners and open
government.
      (2)   County Commissioners should respect the legitimacy of the goals and
interests of other County Commissioners and should respect the rights of others
to pursue goals and policies different from their own.
   (B)   Adjudicative responsibilities.
      (1)   County Commissioners should be faithful to the general and local
laws pertaining to the Office and strive for professional competence in them.
They should not be swayed by partisan interests, public clamor or fear of
criticism.
      (2)   County Commissioners should demand and contribute to the
maintenance of fair, open and courteous proceedings before the Board of County
Commissioners and afford full opportunity for citizens to be heard and to
express their views.
      (3)   County Commissioners should be honest, patient, dignified and
courteous to those with whom they deal in their official capacity, and should
require similar conduct of their staff and others subject to their direction
and control.
      (4)   County Commissioners should accord every person who is interested
in a proceeding before the Commission full right to be heard according to law.
      (5)   County Commissioners should dispose of the business of the county
in a deliberate manner that assures that citizens have meaningful knowledge of
and input into their Commissioners' decisions.
   (C)   Administrative responsibilities.
      (1)   County Commissioners should require county employees to be aware of
and carry out the state's open meetings and public records laws.
      (2)   County Commissioners should conserve the resources of the county in
their charge. They should employ county equipment, property, funds and
personnel only in legally permissible pursuits and in a manner that exemplifies
excellent stewardship.
      (3)   County Commissioners should require county employees subject to
their direction and control to observe the standards of fidelity and diligence
that apply to Commissioners as well as those appropriate for employees.
      (4)   County Commissioners should take or initiate appropriate
disciplinary measures against a county employee for improper conduct.
      (5)   County Commissioners should exercise the power of employment only
on the basis of merit, avoid favoritism and refrain from illegal discrimination
and nepotism. They should not approve compensation of employees beyond the fair
value of services rendered.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2006)
§ 30.06 CANON FIVE - A COUNTY COMMISSIONER SHOULD CONDUCT THE AFFAIRS OF THE
BOARD IN AN OPEN AND PUBLIC MANNER.
   County Commissioners should be aware of the letter and intent of the state's
Open Meetings Law, should conduct the affairs of the Board of County
Commissioners consistent with the letter and spirit of that law and consistent
with the need to inspire and maintain public confidence in the integrity and
fairness of county government and the Office of County Commissioner. Consistent
with this goal of preserving public trust, County Commissioners should be aware
of the need for discretion in deliberations when the lack of discretion would
pose a clear threat to the resources of the county, to the reputation of
current or potential county employees, to the integrity of other governmental
processes or to other legitimate interests of the county. County Commissioners
should only utilize closed meetings as allowed under the Open Meeting Law when
absolutely necessary to carry out the intent and letter of those provisions.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2006)
§ 30.07 CANON SIX - A COUNTY COMMISSIONER SHOULD REGULATE HIS OR HER EXTRA-
GOVERNMENTAL ACTIVITIES TO MINIMIZE THE RISK OF CONFLICT WITH HIS OR HER
OFFICIAL DUTIES.
   (A)   County Commissioners should refrain from financial and business
dealings that tend to reflect adversely on the Board or on county government or
to interfere with the proper performance of official duties.
   (B)   County Commissioners should manage their personal financial interests
to minimize the number of cases in which they must abstain from voting on
matters coming before the Board.
   (C)   Information acquired by County Commissioners in their official
capacity should not be used or disclosed in their personal or business
financial dealings or for any other purpose not related to official duties.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2006)
§ 30.08 CANON SEVEN - A COUNTY COMMISSIONER SHOULD REFRAIN FROM POLITICAL
ACTIVITIES INAPPROPRIATE TO HIS OR HER OFFICE.
   (A)   County Commissioners have a civic responsibility to support good
government by every available means, to continue to inform and educate the
citizenry about the affairs and processes of county government and to make
themselves available to citizens of the county so that they may ascertain and
respond to the needs of the community. In doing so, County Commissioners may
and should join or affiliate with civic organizations whether partisan or non-
partisan, may and should attend political meetings, may and should advocate and
support the principles or policies of civic or political organizations
consistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States and the state.
   (B)   Candidates for the Office of County Commissioner, including
incumbents:
      (1)   Should inform themselves concerning the laws of this state with
regard to campaigns, campaign finance and relevant disclosure requirements,
conflict of interest provisions and other appropriate state and federal laws
and should scrupulously comply with the provisions of those laws;
      (2)   Should maintain the dignity appropriate to the Office, and should
encourage members of their families to adhere to the same standards of
political conduct that apply to Commissioners;
      (3)   Should not make pledges or promises of conduct in Office that they
will not or cannot perform or would be illegal if they were performed;
      (4)   Should not misrepresent their identity, qualifications, present
position or other fact;
      (5)   Should avoid pledges or promises of conduct in Office other than
the faithful and impartial performance of the duties of the Office; and
      (6)   Should refrain from personal or professional financial arrangements
with fellow County Commissioners, appointed advisory board members or other
elected and appointed county and municipal officials that could, or would
appear to, unduly influence either party's conduct or judgment.
(Ord. passed 12-4-2006)
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Community Appearance Commission
   
31.01   Establishment
   
31.02   Membership qualifications and terms of office
   
31.03   Organization
   
31.04   Powers and duties
   
31.05   Annual report
   
31.06   Staff and technical services
   
31.07   Receipt and expenditure of funds
COMMUNITY APPEARANCE COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created and established the Chatham County Appearance
Commission hereinafter referred to as the "Commission," composed of seven
members appointed by the County Board of Commissioners. All members shall be
residents of the county at the time of appointment.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1992; Ord. passed 10-2-1995)
§ 31.02 MEMBERSHIP QUALIFICATIONS AND TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Where possible, appointments shall be made in a manner so as to
maintain on the Commission at all times a majority of members who have had
special training or experience in a design field, such as architecture,
landscape architecture, horticulture, city planning or a closely related field.
   (B)   The terms of office of the members shall be three years, except that
the Board of County Commissioners may stagger the length of the terms of the
initial appointees so that all terms do not expire simultaneously.
   (C)   Members of the Commission shall serve without pay, but may be
reimbursed for actual expenses incidental to the performance of their duties
within the limits of funds available to the Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1992)
§ 31.03 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect one member to serve as Chairperson and
preside over its meetings, and shall create and fill those offices and
committees as it may deem necessary. The term of the Chairperson and other
officers shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election to a second term.
   (B)   The Commission shall maintain a record of its members' attendance, its
actions, findings and recommendations, which record shall be open to the
public.
   (C)   A quorum of members shall be necessary to take any official action
authorized or required by this subchapter. A majority of members, excluding
vacancies, shall constitute a quorum.
   (D)   The Commission shall hold at least six meetings per year. All of its
meetings shall be open to the public.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1992; Ord. passed 10-2-1995)
§ 31.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Appearance Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To initiate, promote and assist in the implementation of programs of
general community beautification in the county;
   (B)   To seek to coordinate the activities of individuals, agencies and
organizations, public and private, whose plans, activities and programs bear
upon the appearance of the county;
   (C)   To provide leadership and guidance in matters of area or community
design and appearance to individuals, and to public and private organizations,
and agencies;
   (D)   To make studies of the visual characteristics and problems of the
county, including surveys and inventories of an appropriate nature, and to
recommend standards and policies of design for the entire area, any portion or
neighborhood thereof, or any project to be undertaken;
   (E)   Prior to consideration of any application for approval of a
conditional use, the County Board of Commissioners may request a recommendation
on the appearance of the proposed conditional use from the Commission. The
Commission shall have 30 days after the request is made to submit its
recommendations;
   (F)   To prepare both general and specific plans for the improved appearance
of the county. These plans may include the entire area or any part thereof, and
may include private as well as public property. The plans shall set forth
desirable standards and goals for the aesthetic enhancement of the county or
any part thereof within its area of planning and zoning jurisdiction, including
public ways and areas, open spaces, and public and private buildings and
projects. Plans and recommendations shall be coordinated with municipalities
and communities lying within and near the county where plans would affect these
areas;
   (G)   To request from the proper officials of any public agency or body,
including agencies of the state and its political subdivisions, its plans for
public buildings, facilities or projects to be located within the county;
   (H)   To review these plans and to make recommendations regarding their
aesthetic suitability to the appropriate agency, or to the planning or
governing board. All plans shall be reviewed by the Commission in a prompt and
expeditious manner, and all recommendations of the Commission with regard to
any public project shall be made in writing. Copies of the recommendation shall
be transmitted promptly to the planning or governing body of the county and to
the appropriate agency;
   (I)   To formulate and recommend to the Board of County Commissioners the
adoption of amendments of ordinances that will, in the opinion of the
Commission, serve to enhance the appearance of the county;
   (J)   To direct the attention of the county officials to needed enforcement
of any ordinance that may in any way affect the appearance of the county;
   (K)   To seek voluntary adherence to the standards and policies of its
plans; and
   (L)   To promote public interest in and an understanding of its
recommendations, studies and plans, and to that end to prepare, publish and
distribute to the public those studies and reports as will, in the opinion of
the Commission, advance the cause of improved municipal appearance.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1992)
§ 31.05 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Commission shall, no later than April 15 of each year, submit to the
Board of County Commissioners a written report of its activities, a statement
of its expenditures to date for the current fiscal year, and its requested
budget for the next fiscal year. All accounts and funds of the Commission shall
be administered substantially in accordance with the requirements of the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1992)
§ 31.06 STAFF AND TECHNICAL SERVICES.
   The Commission may recommend to the Board of County Commissioners suitable
arrangements for the procurement or provision of staff or technical services
for the Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1992)
§ 31.07 RECEIPT AND EXPENDITURE OF FUNDS.
   The Commission may receive contributions from private agencies, foundations,
organizations, individuals and the state or federal government, or any other
source in addition to any sums appropriated for its use by the county. It may
accept and disburse these funds for any purpose within the scope of its
authority and as herein specified.
(Ord. passed 4-20-1992)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
         
51.   WATER CONSERVATION
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
50.01   General provisions
   
50.02   Jurisdiction
   
50.03   Definitions
   
50.04   Use of container sites and collection centers
   
50.05   Solid waste transportation
   
50.06   Collector
   
50.07   Disposal
   
50.08   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Solid Waste
Management Chapter of Chatham County, North Carolina.
   (B)   Preamble. The County Board of Commissioners is authorized by the
General Statutes of the state to enact an ordinance regulating solid waste
collection, storage and transportation, disposal as well as management of
recyclables within the county.
   (C)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public safety,
health and welfare of the citizens of the county by regulating the management
of solid waste and recycling in the county.
   (D)   Authority. Under provisions pursuant to G.S. §§ 153A-121 and 153A-136,
the county hereby exercises its authority to enact these regulations.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993)
§ 50.02 JURISDICTION.
   On and after the effective date of this chapter the collection,
transportation and disposal of solid waste and recyclables within the county
shall be governed by the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993)
§ 50.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANNED MATERIAL. Any solid waste, recyclable or other material of which the
disposal at the transfer station is restricted or forbidden.
   BULKY WASTES. Large items of solid waste such as household appliances,
furniture, automobile, large auto parts, trees, branches, stumps and other
oversized waste whose size precludes or complicates their handling by normal
solid waste collection, processing or disposal methods.
   COLLECTION CENTER. A staffed facility that is owned or operated by the
county at which county people residing in the county can bring their
recyclables and solid waste.
   COMPOST. Biodegradable material that is managed in a way to promote its
decomposition so that a usable soil amenity is produced.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. Waste building materials, packaging and rubble resulting
from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition operations on pavements,
houses, commercial buildings and other structures.
   DEMOLITION WASTE. Concrete, bricks, uncontaminated earth, untreated wood
waste clean of nails or other hardware, and other solid wastes as approved by
the county.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses, and recognizable industrial by-products, but
excluding sewage, human waste and any liquid waste.
   GREENBOX SITE. Any place owned, leased, rented or otherwise operated by the
County Sanitary Landfill Department at which solid waste is collected in open
dumpsters.
   HAULER. Any person or company that hauls solid waste or recyclables.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any solid, liquid or other waste products or combination
thereof which because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may cause or contribute to adverse health effects on
persons, other organisms or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Hazardous waste that is generated in the
residential sector, generally of less quantity and toxicity than hazardous
waste, but may cause public health or environmental problems if not managed in
a special manner, as is more specifically defined by 40 C.F.R. parts 257 and
258 of the Federal Register.
   ILLEGAL DUMPING. Any action which contributes to the illegal accumulation of
litter, solid waste or recyclables.
   LAND CLEARING AND INERT DEBRIS LANDFILL (LCID). Facility operated by the
county which accepts yard waste, land clearing and inert debris, appliances,
tires and vehicle batteries.
   LITTER. Any amount of solid waste or recyclables which has been disposed of,
discarded or abandoned improperly or illegally including solid waste and
recyclables on road sides, in water or on public or private lands. LITTER does
not include biodegradable material collected in a safe manner for composting
purposes, junk as regulated by the
Chapter 111 of this code, or solid waste or recyclables collected on a person's
own property to be used for some legal, safe purpose as approved by the
Commissioners or their authorized representative.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, governmental unit, organization, partnership,
corporation or company.
   PRIVATE HAULER. Any person or company that hauls solid waste or recyclables
for a fee.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. Administrator of the County Solid Waste Department.
   RECOVERED MATERIAL. Discarded materials that are reused in some fashion and
would otherwise be solid waste.
   RECYCLABLE CORRUGATED CARDBOARD. Paper boxes and other thick layered brown
paper used in shipping or receiving which paper dealers are willing to
purchase.
   RECYCLABLES. Those materials which are capable of being recycled and which
otherwise would be processed or disposed of as solid waste.
   RECYCLING COLLECTOR. Any person or private hauler that collects recyclables.
   RECYCLING CONTAINER. Any container maintained by the County Solid Waste
Department that is used to collect recyclables.
   RECYCLING COORDINATOR. The Supervisor of the county recycling program and
collection center sites.
   RESIDENTIAL WASTE. Solid waste generated in the day to day activities of
households.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials not recycled including solid waste materials resulting from
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollution.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects or transports solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE CONTAINER. Any container maintained by the County Solid Waste
Department that is used to collect and/or store solid waste.
   SOLID WASTE DEPARTMENT. The union of the county landfill and recycling
programs which is supervised by the County Public Works Director.
   SOLID WASTE WARDEN. The county employee responsible for executing much of
the enforcement provisions of this chapter, with a specific emphasis on
curtailing illegal dumping.
   SUPERVISOR OF SANITARY LANDFILL. The Supervisor of the county sanitary
landfill or his or her authorized representative.
   SWAP SHOP. Any area at the county collection centers at which recyclables,
reusables and/or other reusable solid waste are deposited, given or traded to
be taken or received by other interested persons.
   TRANSFER STATION. Facility used for staging and bulking of county solid
waste prior to transport to approved sanitary landfill.
   YARD WASTE. All biodegradable clearing debris and vegetative matter
including lawn clipping, leaves, brush, stumps and garden refuse.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993)
§ 50.04 USE OF CONTAINER SITES AND COLLECTION CENTERS.
   (A)   Authority of county agents to regulate use.
      (1)   The greenbox sites, recycling drop-off sites and collection centers
located throughout the county are operated and maintained by the Solid Waste
Department and financed by revenues generated by the ad valorem property tax,
LCID landfill tipping fees, household fee and other miscellaneous taxes. The
purpose of these allocated moneys is to provide solid waste and recycling
management services to citizens in the unincorporated areas of the county.
Therefore, it shall be unlawful for any person, to use county greenbox sites or
collection centers unless the person is disposing of solid waste generated on
property located within the county.
      (2)   Since the purpose of the greenbox sites and collection centers is
to provide solid waste services to the residents of the unincorporated areas of
the county, no industry, business, institution or other nonresidential user
shall deposit solid waste or recyclables at any of the locations without
express permission from the Public Works Director or his or her duly authorized
representative. Nonresidential generators of solid waste are required to take
garbage directly to the transfer station or dispose of it in some other legal
fashion.
      (3)   Due to the fact that the operation of the county LCID landfill is
regulated by the State Department of Human Resources, Division of Health
Services, Sanitary Engineering Section, and the United States Environmental
Protection Agency, the LCID Landfill Supervisor shall have the authority to
determine what types of waste can be deposited in the LCID landfill in
accordance with the most current state and federal rules and regulation
governing the disposal.
   (B)   Materials not acceptable.
      (1)   Due to the difficulty or public health hazard of managing
commingled solid waste and in order to comply with state and federal laws,
certain materials in addition to nonresidential waste cannot be placed in
county solid waste containers. The material includes:
         (a)   Fire embers;
         (b)   Oil and other liquids;
         (c)   Poisons;
         (d)   Infectious waste;
         (e)   Stumps and/or logs;
         (f)   Lead acid batteries;
         (g)   Brush;
         (h)   Land clearing waste;
         (i)   Yard waste;
         (j)   Appliances or furniture;
         (k)   Pesticides;
         (l)   Chemicals;
         (m)   Animals;
         (n)   Concrete;
         (o)   Tires;
         (p)   Construction material;
         (q)   Bulky waste; and
         (r)   Radioactive waste.
      (2)   In addition, it shall be illegal to deposit any material in a
recycling container that is not specifically marked to accept the material.
   (C)   Fire prevention. It shall be unlawful for any person to set or cause
to be set any fire in a solid waste container. No person shall place in a
container embers, ashes or other material which would create a fire hazard.
   (D)   Scavenging. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or to remove
any item from a solid waste or recycling container unless they have express
written permission from the Public Works Director or a duly authorized
representative. No person shall climb on, around or inside a solid waste or
recycling container. No person shall cause any damage to be inflicted upon a
solid waste or recycling container. This division (D) shall not apply to any
person acting in the capacity of solid waste or recycling collector as
authorized by the Public Works Director. Nor shall this division (D) apply to
persons removing items from the collection center swap shop during operational
hours. Nothing in this division (D) shall make it illegal for a scrap dealer or
recycler to buy recyclables from a scavenger.
   (E)   Loitering. No person or persons shall loiter and/or congregate on any
greenbox site, recycling drop-off site, or collection center property and no
vehicle shall be left unattended on the property. Any vehicle left unattended
shall be towed away and placed in storage at the owner's expense.
   (F)   Littering and illegal dumping.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw, deposit or
dump, or to permit, allow, maintain or contribute to the sweeping, throwing,
depositing or dumping any litter, solid waste or recyclables into, upon or
along a drain, gutter, street, sidewalk, alley, vacant or occupied lot, walk,
parking lot, embankment, within or near any public or private lake, pond,
creek, river, stream, ditch, swamp, marsh, whether or not navigable, or upon
any public or private premises within the county provided, however, that
nothing in this division shall prevent the managing of litter, recyclable or
solid waste according to §
50.07 below.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, tenant or lessee of
any building, structure or land jointly or severally to permit the deposit or
accumulation of litter or other illegally dumped materials.
      (3)   Property owners and prime contractors in charge of a construction
site are jointly and severally required to take appropriate measures to ensure
the control of litter generated by construction and related activities.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to leave solid waste, litter or improperly
sorted recyclables at any county drop-off recycling center.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave, throw or deposit any
solid waste, recyclables or litter at any former greenbox site from which all
solid waste containers have been removed.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful to leave solid waste, recyclables or any
material at a collection center or LCID landfill unless there is a county
employee or duly authorized representative present who consents and/or
supervises the leaving of the material at the site.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 SOLID WASTE TRANSPORTATION.
   Vehicles or containers used for the collection and transportation of garbage
or refuse containing garbage shall be covered, leak proof, durable and of
sturdy construction. These shall be cleaned as often as necessary to prevent a
nuisance and shall be maintained in good repair. Vehicles or containers used
for the collection and transportation of any solid waste shall be loaded and
moved in a manner so that the contents will not fall, leak or spill therefrom
and shall be covered or securely tied to prevent blowing of material. If
spillage should occur, the material shall be considered litter unless picked up
immediately by the solid waste collector and returned to the vehicle or
container and the area properly cleaned.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993)
§ 50.06 COLLECTOR.
   (A)   No person shall within the county collect, transport or dispose of
solid waste without a permit issued by the Solid Waste Department provided that
this division (A) shall not apply to any persons disposing of solid waste from
his or her own residence, or to any person operating a solid waste disposal
site that has been approved by the Commissioners and the Division of Health
Services. The county shall issue the authorization only when upon inspection it
finds that the facilities, equipment and proposed operation methods of the
applicant are in compliance with the requirements of G.S. Ch. 130A, Article 9
and Ch. 153A, Articles 6 and 15.
   (B)   Permits shall be obtained from the office of the Solid Waste Warden of
the County Solid Waste Department, and shall be re-validated annually.
   (C)   The permit for collecting and hauling solid waste in the county shall
be revoked immediately by the issuing authority pursuant to G.S. Ch. 153A,
Articles 6 and 15, either for a temporary period or permanently for failure to
comply with any part of this chapter.
   (D)   In accordance with House Bill 0134, all haulers operating in the
county are required to report to the County Recycling Department concerning
quantities of recyclables or recovered material they recycle or deposit in
county recycling receptacles. Reporting shall take place during annual renewal
of permit or by the request of County Recycling Coordinator or a duly
authorized representative.
   (E)   It shall be illegal for haulers to bring solid waste or recyclables
that have been banned into the transfer station commingled with other solid
waste. Banned materials include:
      (1)   Waste oil;
      (2)   Tires;
      (3)   White goods;
      (4)   Lead-acid batteries;
      (5)   Yard waste;
      (6)   Any liquid;
      (7)   Hazardous waste;
      (8)   Recyclable corrugated cardboard generated from nonresidential
sources; and
      (9)   Aluminum cans generated from nonresidential sources.
   (F)   All private haulers who collect residential waste for a fee shall
establish a program to collect and recycle aluminum cans, newspapers and steel
food cans, or else not accept the materials commingled with the residential
garbage that they collect. In addition, haulers are encouraged to promote
recycling of glass bottles, corrugated cardboard, recyclable plastic and other
recyclables. Haulers who do not establish satisfactory programs to remove the
recyclables from the waste stream shall be subject to the penalties specified
in §
50.99(D).
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any private hauler to falsely advertise that
any material is being recycled by him or her when in fact it is not.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 DISPOSAL.
   No solid waste collector or other person shall dispose of solid wastes,
except by one of the following methods:
   (A)   By placing approved household solid waste in county containers;
provided, however, that permitted solid waste collectors are not authorized to
dispose of collected waste or garbage by placing same in county containers;
   (B)   By placing acceptable wastes at the county transfer station, LCID
landfill or any other permitted sanitary landfill that meets all local, state
and federal regulations;
   (C)   By incineration in an incinerator that meets all requirements of the
local, state and federal air pollution standards;
   (D)   A resident may dispose of certain types of residential solid waste
generated at his or her premises upon his or her residence premises, but only
in a safe and sanitary manner approved by the Solid Waste Warden or a duly
authorized representative. A person's premises is the land on which his
dwelling house is situated and land contiguous therewith which is owned by the
person; or
   (E)   By any other method including reclaiming, composting, mulching or
recycling processes that have been approved by the Public Works Director or his
or her duly authorized representative. Disposal of solid waste by any other
method including dumping is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Solid Waste Warden along with any other county employee that the County
Manager designates shall be empowered to enforce this chapter. The designated
Solid Waste Warden shall be responsible to organize all county enforcement
efforts against littering and other activities which violate this chapter.
   (A)   When litter is placed, thrown or deposited into, upon or along any
public or private property, the owner, occupant, tenant, lessee, proprietor or
other person in charge thereof shall upon notice be responsible to remove the
material and dispose of such in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   When litter is released from a vehicle, the operator thereof shall be
presumed to have committed the offense.
   (C)   If any solid waste disposed of in violation of this chapter can be
identified as having belonged to, been in the possession of, sent to or
received by or to have been the property of any person prior to being disposed
of, the identification shall be prima facie evidence that the person disposed
of or caused to be disposed of the solid waste in violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Photographs or videotapes of an illegal dump, litter or of a person in
the process of committing the offense may be used as evidence to identify the
person responsible.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor
and any person convicted of the violation shall be punishable as provided in
G.S. § 14-4 by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or a fine not more than $500.
Each day's violation of this chapter shall be a separate offense. Payment of a
fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this division (A) does not
relieve a person of liability for taxes, fees or administrative penalties
imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction or order of abatement issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e), or any other
applicable law.
   (C)   In addition to and not in lieu of the criminal penalties and other
sanctions provided in this chapter, any person violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty for each violation which
shall be paid in full within 24 hours of the service of the citation in
accordance with G.S. § 153A-123.
      (1)   The civil penalties may be recovered by the county in a civil
action in the nature of debt or may be collected in another manner as
prescribed herein within the prescribed time following the issuance of notice
for the violation.
      (2)   The notice shall, among other things:
         (a)   State upon its face the violation committed, the place and
approximate date, and the amount of the penalty;
         (b)   Notify the offender that a failure to pay the penalties within
the prescribed time shall subject the offender to a civil action in the nature
of debt for the stated penalty together with the cost of the action to be taxed
by the court; and
         (c)   Further provide that the offender may answer the notice by
mailing the notice, and stated penalty to the county government at a location
designated upon the notice, and that upon payment, the case or claim and right
of action by the county will be deemed compromised and settled.
      (3)   The County Manager or duly designated representative is authorized
to accept payments in full and final settlement of the claim or claims, right
or rights or action which the county may have to enforce the penalty by civil
action in the nature of debt. Acceptance of the penalty shall be deemed a full
and final release of any and all the claims, or rights of action arising out of
the alleged violation or violations.
      (4)   The civil penalty for violation of this chapter shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Littering: $50 per offense;
         (b)   Residential violation, including misuse of county solid waste
facility and backyard dumping: $30 per offense;
         (c)   Use of the county solid waste facilities or littering by out of
county offender: $75 per offense;
         (d)   Violations for commercial or industrial purposes: $100 per
offense; and
         (e)   All repeat offenders: $100 per offense.
      (5)   The notice of violation referred to herein may be delivered to the
person violating the provisions of this chapter in person, or may be mailed to
the person at his or her last known address.
      (6)   All penalties paid to the county as well as those recovered in a
civil action in the nature of debt as herein provided shall be paid into the
School Fund of the county.
   (D)   Any solid waste collector of commercial, industrial or institutional
waste who disposes waste containing a banned material shall be subject to the
following penalty: a tipping fee of twice the then current tipping fee for
entire contaminated load. Subsequent offenses shall be subject to tipping fees
of three times the then current tipping fee for entire contaminated load.
   (E)   Any and all costs incurred by the county in the abatement of litter
under the provisions of this chapter may constitute a lien against the property
upon which the litter existed, which lien shall be filed with the Tax
Administrator and collected in the same manner as provided for the collection
of ad valorem taxes. The filing shall be notice to all persons from the time of
its filing with the Tax Administrator and shall bear interest at the legal rate
thereafter until satisfied. In addition, the violator shall be liable for
restitution for abatement costs.
   (F)   The person or persons littering or dumping in violation of this
chapter and the person or persons generating the litter or unauthorized
material so dumped shall be liable, jointly and severable for all costs
incurred by the county in the collection, removal and disposal of the litter or
unauthorized material.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1993)
CHAPTER 51: WATER CONSERVATION
Section
   
51.01   Year-round measures
   
51.02   Year round conservation irrigation schedule
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 YEAR-ROUND MEASURES.
   (A)   This revision is enacted in an effort to encourage water conservation,
preserve the water supply in Jordan Lake and help reduce seasonal peak day
demands that result in the need for costly expansion of water treatment,
storage and transmission facilities.
   (B)   Those year-round practices shall include:
      (1)   Automatic irrigation shall be regulated according to the schedule
in §
51.02;
      (2)   All irrigation is limited to one inch per week;
      (3)   Automatic controllers and moisture sensors are required on all
irrigation systems;
      (4)   Wasteful water use is prohibited. Non-beneficial uses include, but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Landscape water applied in a manner, rate and/or quantity so
that it overflows the landscaped area being watered and runs onto adjacent
property or public right-of-way; or landscape water applied during periods of
rainfall or when soil moisture is already adequate;
         (b)   The use of water for washing vehicles, equipment or hard
surfaces, such as parking lots, aprons, pads, driveways or other surfaced
areas, in such quantities to flow onto adjacent property or the public right-
of-way;
         (c)   Water applied in sufficient quantity to cause ponding on
impervious surfaces; and
         (d)   Water lost through plumbing leaks that can be readily identified
and corrected.
      (5)   Water leaks on property or facilities of the county customers must
be repaired within ten days of discovery.
   (C)   Unless superseded by the declaration of a water supply shortage or
emergency, the year-round requirements outlined above shall not apply to the
following:
      (1)   Outdoor irrigation necessary for the establishment of newly sodded
or seeded lawns and landscaping within the first 30 days of planting;
      (2)   Irrigation necessary for one day only where treatment with an
application of chemicals requires immediate watering to preserve an existing
landscape or to establish a new landscape;
      (3)   Water used to control dust or to compact soil when alternate
methods are not available;
      (4)   Visually supervised operation of watering systems for short periods
of time to check system condition and effectiveness;
      (5)   Water applied to prevent or abate health, safety or accident
hazards where alternate methods are not available;
      (6)   Water used for construction or maintenance activities where the
application of water is the appropriate methodology and where no practical
alternative exits;
      (7)   Water used for firefighting, firefighter training, fire hose
testing, fire pumper testing and other emergency situation mitigation purposes;
or
      (8)   For situations in which there is no practical alternative, the
county-supplied potable water may be used for other special purposes, such as
washing out garbage trucks, cleaning up hazardous or unsanitary materials and
the like, or provided that the water is used in the least quantity needed to
accomplish the task.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 YEAR ROUND CONSERVATION IRRIGATION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Irrigation sub-areas.
      (1)   Governors Club - odd addresses;
      (2)   Governors Club - even addresses;
      (3)   Carolina Meadows - odd addresses;
      (4)   Carolina Meadows - even addresses;
      (5)   Carolina Meadows - golf course;
      (6)   Big Woods subdivisions;
      (7)   Fearrington Village; and
      (8)   All others.
   (B)   Year round conservation irrigation schedule.
 Governors Governors Carolina  Carolina  Carolina
 Club Odd  Club Even Meadows   Meadows   Meadows  Big Woods    Fearrington All
 Addresses Addresses Odd       Even      Golf     Subdivisions Village     Others
                     Addresses Addresses Course
          Governors Governors Carolina  Carolina  Carolina
          Club Odd  Club Even Meadows   Meadows   Meadows  Big Woods    Fearrington All
          Addresses Addresses Odd       Even      Golf     Subdivisions Village     Others
                              Addresses Addresses Course
Monday              X                                      X
Tuesday   X                   X                                         X
Wednesday                               X         X                                 X
Thursday            X                                      X
Friday    X                   X
Saturday                                X                               X
Sunday                                            X                                 X
 
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties for failing to comply with these requirements are:
      (1)   First offense: written warning;
      (2)   Second offense: a penalty of $250 per occurrence;
      (3)   Third offense: a penalty of $500 per occurrence; and
      (4)   Fourth offense: water service will be interrupted.
   (B)   Penalties will be added to the customer's utility bill and should be
paid in the same manner as current monthly water usage payments to the county.
(Ord. passed 2-7-2008)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
[Reserved]
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
91.   ANIMAL SERVICES DIVISION
         
92.   NOISE REGULATIONS
         
93.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Fishing from certain bridges
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 FISHING FROM CERTAIN BRIDGES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fish from any bridge located
within the boundaries of the B. Everette Jordan Reservoir area in the county
nor shall any person fish from the bridge on N.C. S.R. 1943 where the same
crosses Robeson Creek.
   (B)   The County Manager shall cause appropriate signs to be posted at all
bridges and roadways subject to this section giving the public notice hereof.
   (C)   The law enforcement officers of the Wildlife Resources Commission, the
Sheriff and his or her deputies and all other peace officers with general
subject matter jurisdiction are requested to enforce this section.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 8-8-1994; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of a section of this chapter that is specifically designated
as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor and any person convicted of the
violation shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 8-8-1994; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMAL SERVICES DIVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Authority and responsibility
   
91.003   Applicability to animal shelter
   
91.004   Employees of the Animal Services Division
   
91.005   Interference with enforcement
   
91.006   Relation to hunting laws
   
91.007   Injuring, molesting, tormenting animals; notice required
   
91.008   Keeping stray animals; notice required
   
91.009   Keeping of non-domestic animals prohibited
   
91.010   Interference with owned animal
Cruelty to Animals
   
91.020   Purpose
   
91.021   Abuse, neglect, and mistreatment of animals unlawful
Nuisance
   
91.035   Unlawful to maintain a public nuisance
   
91.036   Animals running at large prohibited
   
91.037   Investigation and compliance
   
91.038   Failure to abate
Rabies Control
   
91.050   Rabies control
   
91.051   Bites
   
91.052   Post mortem diagnosis
   
91.053   Failure to surrender animal for confinement or destruction
Impoundment, Redemption, and Adoption
   
91.070   Impoundment generally
   
91.071   Notice to owner
   
91.072   Redemption by owner
   
91.073   Euthanasia or adoption of unredeemed animal
   
91.074   Owner surrendered animals
   
91.075   Rabies vaccination required for redemption or adoption of unvaccinated
dogs or cats
   
91.076   Adoptions; additional requirements
   
91.077   Adoption exemptions
   
91.078   Injured, diseased, or unweaned animals
   
91.079   Animals which cannot be seized by reasonable means
   
91.080   Security for costs
Potentially Dangerous and Dangerous Animals
   
91.090   Supplemental to state dangerous dog laws
   
91.091   Biting or attacking animals
   
91.092   Protective measures for confinement of potentially dangerous or
dangerous dogs or other animals
   
91.093   Appeals from the determination of potentially dangerous and dangerous
dog
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or negligently leave an
animal at a location not to return and without providing for the animal’s care.
   ABUSE and NEGLECT.
      (1)   Failing to provide an animal with adequate food and adequate water.
      (2)   Molesting, harassing, injuring, setting on fire, or sexually
assaulting any animal in a manner causing physical pain, suffering, or death to
the animal;
      (3)   Failing to provide adequate medical attention for any sick,
diseased, or injured animal in order to prevent physical pain, suffering,
disability, or death to the animal;
      (4)   Keeping any animal under conditions which cause or could cause
physical pain, suffering, disability, or death to the animal or which increases
the probability of the transmission of disease;
      (5)   Failing to provide adequate shelter, as defined herein, for an
animal; or
      (6)    Conveying or confining any type of animal in a motor vehicle,
wagon, or trailer, or in the bed of a truck in such a way as to cause physical
pain, suffering, disability, or death to the animal.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed 24 hours,
of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age,
sufficient to maintain a reasonable level of nutrition in each animal. Such
foodstuff shall be served in a sanitized receptacle, dish, or container.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. An enclosure having at least three solid sides, a roof,
and a solid floor raised above the ground with sufficient room for the animal
to move about freely and lie down comfortably, structurally sound, water and
wind resistant, maintained in good repair, and constructed in a manner to
provide shade from the direct rays of the sun, adequate ventilation and light.
Barrel style enclosures are considered adequate shelter provided they are kept
in a good state of repair, waterproof, have a floor raised above the ground,
and are stable for the animal.
   ADEQUATE WATER. Constant access to a supply of clean, fresh, potable water
provided in a sanitary manner or provided at suitable intervals for the species
and not to exceed 24 hours at any interval.
   ADOPTABLE ANIMAL. An animal that, in the opinion of the Animal Services
Director, is physically well, spayed or neutered, exhibits behaviors of
socialization and compatibility with living in the human environment, does not
pose an undue risk of injury to people or other animals and which would be
considered desirable for companionship.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature specifically including but not limited
to dogs, cats, farm animals, birds, fish, livestock, and reptiles.
   ANIMAL SERVICES DIVISION. The division of the County Public Health
Department authorized to enforce this chapter, all state laws regarding rabies
and animals, and to oversee operations of the county’s animal shelter.
   ANIMAL SERVICES OFFICER. Staff of the Animal Services Division, designated
by the Health Director, authorized to enforce this chapter and all state laws
regarding rabies and animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for animals found running at large or otherwise subject
to impoundment pursuant to this chapter.
   APPROVED TETHERING COLLAR. A collar or harness constructed of nylon,
leather, or similar material specifically designed to be used for a dog, cat,
or pot-bellied pig. Approved collars do not include head harnesses, choke-type
or pronged collars.
   AT LARGE. Any animal off the real property of its owner and not under
physical restraint of a competent person. For the purposes of this definition,
the term REAL PROPERTY shall include any property owned or occupied by the
owner of such animal but shall not include any of the common areas (including
without limitation, walks, drives, recreation and open space areas, and the
like) within any subdivision or multifamily residential development.
   AT LARGE NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any at large animal which, in addition to being at
large, has created a public nuisance when having been off property.
   BITE or BITTEN. Skin has been penetrated by an animal’s teeth. (Cat
scratches)
   COMPETENT PERSON. A person of suitable age and discretion to keep an animal
under sufficient restraint and control in order to prevent harm to the animal,
persons, to other animals, including but not limited to domesticated livestock,
or to property.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that:
         (a)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person; or
         (b)   Is determined by the person or board designated by the county or
municipal authority responsible for animal control to be potentially dangerous
because the dog has engaged in previous behaviors defined as a potentially
dangerous dog.
      (2)   Any dog owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A dog, cat, or ferret that has been made tame by
socialization and that is fit for the human environment.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter if it has been bitten by, or otherwise come into contact with
the saliva or nervous tissue of a proven rabid animal or animal reasonably
suspected of having rabies that is not available for laboratory diagnosis.
   HOLDING PERIOD. The time period for holding animals seized by the Animal
Services Division or turned into the shelter without a known owner. The holding
period for adoptable animals shall be five days, calculated from 6:00 a.m. on
the day immediately following the day of seizure or turn in and ending at 6:00
p.m. on the fifth day thereafter. The holding period for all other animals
shall be three days calculated from 6:00 a.m. on the day immediately following
the day of seizure or turn in and ending at 6:00 p.m. on the third day
thereafter. Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays shall not be counted.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Chatham County Public Health Department.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Director of the County Public Health Department or his
or her designee.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The placement of an animal in the custody of the County Animal
Services Division, person or entity duly authorized by the Board of County
Commissioners or by state law for that purpose.
   KEEPER. Any person, acting in the capacity of the owner, or at the owner’s
request, who is responsible for the care, welfare, and maintenance of the
animal.
   LIVESTOCK. All categories and subsets of equines, bovines, sheep, goats,
llamas, and swine.
   MICROCHIP IMPLANT. A passive electronic device injected into an animal by
means of a pre-packaged sterilized implanting device for the purpose of
identification and/or recovery of the animal.
   OWNER. Any person taking care of or having custody of an animal, such as by
providing food, water, shelter, or medical care, but shall not include taking
care or having custody of the animal for compensation.
   OWNER’S PROPERTY. The area described in the deed of conveyance to the owner,
or in a lease situation written or verbal, the area described in the lessor’s
deed of conveyance. For the purposes of this definition the common areas of
townhomes and condominiums will be considered as being owned by the homeowners
association and the common areas of apartment complexes will be considered
owned by the lessor/property owner.
   PERSON. An individual natural person or group of persons, a corporation,
partnership, limited liability company, association, other organization or
similar entity including bodies of politic and corporate.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that has:
      (1)   Inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or hospitalization;
      (2)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when not
on the owner’s real property; or
      (3)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a vicious
or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
   PROOF OF OWNERSHIP. Documentation that establishes property rights in an
animal including but not limited to, veterinary records, rabies vaccination
certificate, license, registration, photographs, bills of sale, breed
registries, written transfers of ownership, and verbal or written third-party
verifications.
   PROVOKE. Any action designed, intended, or which can reasonably be expected
to have the effect of goading, inflaming, instigating, or stimulating an
aggressive response on the part of an animal. Reasonable efforts of self-
defense against a dangerous animal and authorized or otherwise lawful entry
onto the property of another shall not constitute provocation.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any act or conditions resulting from the maintaining, housing, or
harboring of animals which annoys and disturbs the rights, privileges of a
reasonable person(s) under the circumstances within a given community,
rendering the ordinary use or occupation of any person’s property physically
uncomfortable or which creates a public health nuisance.
      (2)   The following, by way of example, and not by way of limitation,
shall constitute prima facie evidence of nuisance whether occurring on or off
the owner’s property:
         (a)   Any animal which damages the property of anyone other than its
owner, including but not limited to, turning over garbage containers, damaging
gardens, flowers, or vegetables.
         (b)   Any animal(s) maintained in unsanitary conditions which results
in offensive odors, is dangerous to the welfare of the animal(s), or public
health and safety.
         (c)   Any act by virtue of number or type and location is offensive or
dangerous to public health, safety, or welfare.
         (d)   Any animal which habitually barks, whines, howls, or otherwise
creates excessive and repetitive noise which annoys and disturbs the rights,
and privileges, and reasonable expectations of other person(s) rendering the
ordinary use or occupation of any person’s property physically or emotionally
uncomfortable.
         (e)   When off the owner’s property any animal that habitually or
repeatedly chases, snaps at, attacks, or barks at pedestrians, joggers, animals
walked on a leash by their owners, bicycles, or other vehicles.
         (f)   Any female dog or cat not maintained in a building or other
enclosure, while in heat, in such a manner that she will not be in contact with
another dog or cat or attract other animals. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit the intentional breeding of animals within an enclosed
area on the premises of the owner of the animal which is being bred.
         (g)    Any animal tethered in a manner that allows it to come within
five feet of another person’s property line.
   QUARANTINE. The strict confinement of an animal in a manner which precludes
direct contact with other animals not currently in quarantine or person other
than the owner or caretaker.
   RESTRAINT OFF OWNER’S PROPERTY. Restriction or control of an animal’s
movement by a leash, bridle, or similar effective and humane device and under
the direct control of a competent person when off the owner’s real property.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. Any enclosure, including but not limited to a house,
mobile home, shed, barn, and the like, from which an animal cannot escape
unless freed by the owner. An Animal Services Officer, in his or her
discretion, may determine whether or not there is a secure enclosure on the
premises.
   STRAY. Any animal found at large which does not bear owner identification,
the owner is not known, or an owner cannot be identified in the exercise of due
diligence.
   SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES. Any animal which is unvaccinated against rabies
or whose vaccination status is unknown which is reasonably suspected of having
been exposed to rabies.
   TETHER. A rope, metal chain, coated cable, or other similar and effective
humane device, with which an animal is secured to in order to restrict its
movement. By design, the tether must be at least 15 feet in length and equipped
with a swivel on each connecting end. By design and placement, it shall allow
the dog a reasonable and unobstructed range of motion. A pulley system, running
line, or trolley system may be used in conjunction with this definition.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.002 AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the power granted Chatham County in G.S.
§§ 153A-121, 153A-123, 153A-127 and 153A-442. The purpose of this chapter is to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of county residents and the animals
residing within the county and to regulate and control the conduct, keeping,
and care of those animals.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.003 APPLICABILITY TO ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The county shall operate and maintain a county animal shelter for the
purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of state
law, this chapter, or any other county or municipal ordinance. The county may
contract for animal shelter operations and needs as deemed appropriate.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.004 EMPLOYEES OF THE ANIMAL SERVICES DIVISION.
   (A)   The county may appoint one or more Animal Services Officers. The
Health Director may also designate an Animal Services Officer as an Animal
Cruelty Investigator.
   (B)   Animal Services Officers shall have only the following powers and
duties within the county and within any municipality therein that has given
prior approval in accordance with applicable law or ordinance:
      (1)   The responsibility for the enforcement of all state and local laws
including ordinances, resolutions, and proclamations pertaining to the
ownership and control of dogs and other animals.
      (2)   Be responsible for the investigation of all reported animal bites
and, under the direction of the Health Director, enforcement of animal
quarantine or other actions as provided under public health law, of any dog or
cat suspected of being exposed to or having rabies.
      (3)   To cooperate with all law enforcement officers in the county and
the towns therein and assist in the enforcement of the laws of the state with
regard to animals.
      (4)   Conduct, promote, and/or sponsor rabies vaccination clinics.
      (5)   To investigate reported or observed animal cruelty, mistreatment,
neglect, or animal abuse and make written reports of such investigations and,
when requested, provide such reports to appropriate law enforcement officers or
the District Attorney’s office.
      (6)   To investigate reports of observed harassment or attacks by dogs or
other animals against people, animals, or domesticated livestock and to assist
in locating those persons owning or harboring the attacking animals.
      (7)   To immediately impound, pursuant to division (B)(8) of this
section, any animal which, based upon the determination of the officer, is in
imminent risk of death, injury, or serious illness if not immediately removed
from the conditions putting the animal at risk.
      (8)   To remove an animal from a person’s property, in the absence of the
owner, to protect public safety.
      (9)   Issue citations for violations of this chapter and/or initiate
legal remedies in a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to this chapter or
state law.
      (10)   When necessary, make inspections to enforce any provisions of this
chapter, or other applicable law. When an Animal Services Officer has
reasonable cause to believe there exists, in any building or upon any premises,
any violation of this chapter or other applicable law, the Animal Services
Officer is empowered to enter and inspect the property at any reasonable time
and perform any duty imposed by this chapter or applicable law upon consent of
the occupant or owner of the property or by administrative or criminal search
warrant.
         (a)   The procedure shall be as follows:
            1.   If the property is occupied, the Animal Services Officer shall
first present his or her credentials to the occupant or owner and request
entry, explaining the reasons therefor;
            2.   If the property is unoccupied, the Animal Services Officer
shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons
having control of the property, present proper credentials, and request entry,
explaining reasons therefor; and
            3.   If entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or
other person having control or charge of the property cannot be found after due
diligence, the Animal Services Officer may obtain an appropriate warrant to
conduct a search, or inspection of the property.
         (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Animal
Services Officer, upon order of the Health Director, shall have all authority
granted by the North Carolina General Statutes to enter upon any land to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, including the seizure of dog(s) or
other animal(s) determined to be dangerous, potentially dangerous, vicious, or
a threat to the safety and welfare of the public and/or other animals or any
other action necessary to abate an imminent hazard to the safety and wellbeing
of persons or animals.
      (11)   Keep, or cause to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
         (a)   Seizure, impoundment, and disposition of all animals coming into
the custody of the Animal Services Division;
         (b)   Bite cases, violations, and complaints, and investigation of
same;
         (c)   All moneys belonging to the county derived from fees, penalties
or other sources, and to pay all funds so collected to the county finance
office daily; and
         (d)   Any other matters required by state law or as directed by the
Health Director or County Manager.
         (e)   Meet the qualifications for Animal Services Officer positions as
set forth in the job description for the positions in the state and county
personnel policies respectively; and
         (f)   Be authorized to place live-capture animal traps on private
property, with the consent of the landowner, or on public property, in order to
trap and remove stray, at large, abandoned, or nuisance domestic animals. The
Animal Services Officer is further authorized to receive and impound domestic
animals that are trapped by other agencies or persons within the county.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.005 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   The following shall be unlawful.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, threaten,
hinder, molest, otherwise prevent a member of the Animal Services Division from
carrying out and performing their lawful duties pursuant to this chapter or
other applicable law, or to seek to release any animal in the custody of the
Animal Services Division except as otherwise specifically provided.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal, for the purpose of
evading the requirements of this chapter, any animal from the Animal Services
Division.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to show proof of a
rabies vaccination to any member of the Animal Services Division upon demand.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a member of the Animal
Services Division, to remove any animal from a live-capture animal trap placed
on private or public property by the Animal Services Division without the
express authorization of a member of the Division. It shall also be unlawful
for any person to damage, destroy, move, or otherwise tamper with a trap placed
by the Animal Services Division on private or public property.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any stray
animal to the Animal Services Division upon demand, pursuant to §
91.008.
   (F)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.006 RELATION TO HUNTING LAWS.
   Nothing contained in this chapter is intended to conflict with the laws of
the state regulating, restricting, authorizing, or otherwise affecting dogs
used in hunting, provided the dogs are in the presence of the owner or some
other competent person, and are lawfully being used for hunting or training,
and which are in compliance with applicable statutes, regulations, or
ordinances.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.007 INJURING, MOLESTING, TORMENTING ANIMALS; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally injure, molest, or
torment any animal by running over, into, coming into contact with or chasing
it with a vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to immediately
notify the owner of the animal, the Animal Services Division, or the police
department if in a municipality, or the Sheriffs Department if in the county
when an animal has been injured by contact with any vehicle. A violation of
this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.008 KEEPING STRAY ANIMALS; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county to harbor, feed,
keep in possession by confinement, or otherwise allow to remain on his or her
property any animal which does not belong to such person, unless he or she has,
within 72 hours from the time the animal came into his or her possession or
onto his or her property, notified the Animal Services Division.
      (1)   The Animal Services Division, after consultation with the person
keeping the animal, and in the exercise of reasonable judgment consistent with
the best interest of the animal, shall decide whether to impound the animal and
transport it to the animal shelter or whether the person shall be allowed to
keep the animal until the owner’s identity has been determined.
      (2)   The Animal Services Division shall notify the owner, if known, in
writing or by telephone of the location and status of his or her animal. When
the animal owner cannot be immediately identified, the Animal Services Division
shall post on a bulletin board, prominently displayed at the animal shelter and
on the county website, a notice including a description of the animal, the
time, date, and place of its first appearance, and the date the notice was
posted. The bulletin board shall be in public view at all times and the webpage
notice shall remain posted until the animal is recovered by the owner, adopted,
or euthanized pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   If the owner, once notified by the Animal Services Division, does
not claim his or her animal within five working days, the person keeping the
animal may adopt it according to adoption procedures for un-redeemed animals or
the Animal Services Division may dispose of the animal pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any such
stray animal to the Animal Services Division upon demand.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.009 KEEPING OF NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall possess or harbor any non-domestic animal or animals
except in conformity with the “Ordinance Regulating the Keeping of Wild and
Vicious Animals Within Chatham County.” (Document posted on the county website)
   (B)   This section shall not apply to bona fide circuses, petting zoos, and
other similar commercial animal exhibitions of limited duration which are
licensed or registered with the United States Department of Agriculture.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.010 INTERFERENCE WITH OWNED ANIMAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice or lure any animal out of an
enclosure or off the property of its owner, or to seize, molest, or tease any
animal while the animal is held or controlled by its owner or while the animal
is on the property of its owner. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS
§ 91.020 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement G.S. §§ 14-360, 14-363.2,
and all other state laws regarding animals for which the Animal Services
Division has enforcement authority pursuant to §
91.002 above.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.021 ABUSE, NEGLECT, AND MISTREATMENT OF ANIMALS UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to subject or cause to be
subjected any animal to cruel treatment or to deprive or cause to be deprived
any animal of adequate food and water; with respect to domesticated animals or
wild animals in captivity or under restraint, it shall additionally be unlawful
to deprive or cause to be deprived any such animal of adequate shelter or
veterinary care. It shall be unlawful for any person to subject or cause to be
subjected any animal to cruel treatment resulting from:
      (1)   Failure to provide adequate food and water;
      (2)   Failure to provide appropriate shelter and protection from
excessive heat, cold, and other weather conditions detrimental to the health
and wellbeing of the animal;
      (3)   Failure to provide a humane, clean living environment; or
      (4)   Failure to provide necessary medical attention when the animal is
or has been suffering from illness, injury, disease, excessive parasitism, or
malformed/overgrown hoof.
   (B)   The following acts or failures to act are unlawful and violations of
this chapter:
      (1)   Abusing or neglecting, as defined in this chapter, any animal.
      (2)   Selling or offering for sale, bartering, or giving away within the
county baby chickens, baby ducklings, or other fowl under six weeks of age or
rabbits under eight weeks of age as pets, toys, premiums, or novelties;
provided, however, that this section shall not be construed to prohibit the
sale or display of such baby chickens, ducklings, or other fowl or such rabbits
in proper facilities with adequate food, water, and shelter, by breeders or
stores engaged in the business of selling the animals for purposes other than
as pets or novelties.
      (3)   Coloring, dyeing, staining, or otherwise changing the natural color
of baby chickens or other fowl or rabbits.
      (4)   Possessing any paraphernalia related to dog, cock, or other animal
fighting, with the intent that the paraphernalia be used to train or feature in
an exhibition the baiting of dog, cock, or other animal or the fighting of a
dog, cock, or other animal with another dog, cock, or other animal.
      (5)   Committing any of the acts made unlawful under the provisions of
G.S. §§ 14-360 and 14-362, as the same relate to a dog or dogs, or to commit
any other act made unlawful by any other law of the state relating to animal
fighting or animal baiting. The repeal of such law or laws of the state shall
have no effect upon this section, and the acts herein made unlawful shall, in
the event of such repeal, be those referred to in said law or laws immediately
prior to such repeal.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to confine an animal in a
vehicle under conditions that are likely to cause suffering, injury, or death
to the animal due to heat, cold, lack of adequate ventilation, or under other
endangering conditions.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to abandon or forsake
any animal within the county.
      (8)   The following acts are unlawful and violations of the chapter for
confinement of dogs or cats on tethers. The term “tether” is defined herein.
         (a)   Tethering a dog or cat who is less than four months of age.
         (b)   Tethering more than one dog or cat to a single tether.
         (c)   Tethering a dog or cat to anything other than a collar or body
harness. Under no circumstances shall the tether itself be placed directly
around the dog or cat’s neck.
         (d)   Tethering a dog or cat to anything other than an approved
tethering collar, as defined herein.
         (e)   Tethering a dog or cat in a manner in which the weight of the
tethering device and the collar combined exceeds 10% of the dog’s body weight,
except when deemed necessary.
         (f)   Tethering a dog or cat in such a manner that prevents access to
adequate food, adequate water, and adequate shelter, as defined herein.
         (g)   Pulley systems, running lines, or trolley systems used shall be
at least 15 feet in length and no more than seven feet above the ground.
      (9)   The following acts are unlawful and violations of the chapter for
confinement of dogs or cats in outdoor enclosures.
         (a)   Not providing an animal with adequate space, suitable for the
size, age, and activity level of the dog;
         (b)   To house an animal in such a manner that prevents access to
adequate food, adequate water, and adequate shelter; or
         (c)   Allowing animals to be kept in crowded conditions.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
NUISANCE
§ 91.035 UNLAWFUL TO MAINTAIN A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow his or her animal or animals to
create a public nuisance, or to maintain a public nuisance created by his or
her animal or animals. A violation of this section is punishable as a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.036 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper of an animal(s), to allow
it to run at large off its owner’s or keeper’s property.
   (B)   Upon an Animal Services Officer’s observation of a dog/cat running at
large, or off premises of its owner and not under the physical restraint of a
competent person, the officer may, at his or her discretion, impound the dog/
cat.
   (C)   Upon an Animal Services Officer’s receipt of a complaint that a dog/
cat is running at large or is off the premises of its owner and not under the
physical restraint of a competent person, the officer shall investigate the
complaint and upon finding that there is probable cause that a violation has
occurred, the officer may issue a citation or a warning or take any other
action contained in this chapter or any state law as the circumstances may
require.
   (D)   Animals which, in addition to running at large, create a nuisance
shall constitute a separate and additional violation.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.037 INVESTIGATION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   When an Animal Services Officer, law enforcement officer, or person
duly authorized by the Health Director observes an animal or animals creating a
public nuisance the owner will be notified of the violation and ordered to
abate the nuisance immediately.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an oral or written complaint from any person or
persons, that any other person’s animal(s) is creating a public nuisance, the
Animal Services Division shall notify the animal owner that a complaint has
been received and shall investigate and prepare a written report of the
investigation. If the Animal Services Division determines that a public
nuisance exists, the Animal Services Division shall notify the owner of the
animal or animals in question, and order immediate abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.038 FAILURE TO ABATE.
   It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor for any person to fail
or refuse to abate the nuisance as required by this chapter. Each day that the
nuisance continues shall constitute a separate violation pursuant to § 91.999.
Further, a public nuisance, as defined in § 91.001 shall be subject to the
penalties provided by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
RABIES CONTROL
§ 91.050 RABIES CONTROL.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any animal owner or
other person to fail to comply with the laws of the state relating to the
control of rabies. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.051 BITES.
   (A)   Bites inflicted by animals upon human beings shall be reported
immediately to the Animal Services Division. Physicians treating bite wounds
shall report the bite to the Animal Services Division immediately. The Animal
Services Division will notify the Health Director or his or her designee
immediately of the reported bite.
   (B)   Every dog, cat, or ferret that bites a human being and does not have a
valid rabies vaccination shall be delivered to the animal shelter or to a
licensed veterinary hospital, at the choice of the owner, where the animal
shall be confined for observation for not less than ten days from the day of
the bite. The owner shall be responsible for the cost of such confinement.
   (C)   Every dog, cat, or ferret that bites a human being and has a valid
rabies vaccination shall be delivered to the animal shelter or to a licensed
veterinary hospital, where the animal shall be confined for observation for not
less than ten days. The owner shall be responsible for the cost of such
confinement. An Animal Services Officer may, under authority designated by the
local Health Director, permit the animal to be confined on the premises of the
owner only when, after personal inspection, it is determined there is a
suitable secure enclosure on the premises and that other circumstances warrant
such action.
   (D)   In the case of stray animals whose ownership is not known, the
supervised confinement required by this section shall be at the animal shelter
unless an interested party pays to board at a veterinarian’s office.
   (E)   If rabies does not develop within ten days after an animal is confined
under this section, the animal may be released from confinement with the
written permission of the Animal Services Officer. If the animal has been
confined in the county animal shelter, the owner shall pay a fee as set by the
County Board of Commissioners for each day of confinement to defray the cost of
feeding upon reclaiming the animal.
   (F)   Every hybrid dog or hybrid cat that bites a human being shall be
delivered to the Animal Services shelter or to a licensed veterinary hospital,
at the choice of the owner, where the animal shall be humanely euthanized and
its head sent to the State Laboratory of Public Health for rabies testing.
   (G)   Every primate that bites a person shall be delivered to a properly
licensed veterinarian for medical evaluation as judged appropriate by the
veterinarian. The animal will be evaluated and held at the owner’s expense
until such time as a bite investigation is completed by Animal Services.
Primates inflicting a bite on a human will be considered dangerous and will be
subject to the provisions set forth in §
91.090 “Supplemental to State Dangerous Dog Laws.”
   (H)   Animals bitten by rabid animals. Any currently vaccinated animal known
or reasonably suspected to have been bitten by another animal which is known or
reasonably suspected of having rabies shall be revaccinated within five days of
the exposure and quarantined at residence of owner for a period of 45 days. All
other animals without proof of current rabies vaccinations will be given the
option of quarantine at a facility approved by the local Health Director for
six months or immediate euthanasia at the animal shelter. If the animal
develops rabies as determined by a licensed veterinarian, it shall be the duty
of the owner to have such animal euthanized and properly disposed of, subject
to the provisions of G.S. § 130A-197, providing for the euthanasia of rabid
animals and the laboratory examination of the heads of such animals.
   (I)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
§ 91.052 POST MORTEM DIAGNOSIS.
   (A)   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of the
animal shall be submitted to the Animal Services Division for shipment to the
Laboratory Section of the State Department of Health and Human Services for
rabies diagnosis.
   (B)   The carcass of any animal suspected of dying of rabies and which has
caused an exposure or potential exposure of rabies to a human or animal shall
be surrendered to the Animal Services Division. The head of the animal shall be
shipped to the Laboratory Section of the State Department of Health and Human
Services for rabies diagnosis.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.053 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR CONFINEMENT OR DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for confinement or destruction as required by state law and this
chapter. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
IMPOUNDMENT, REDEMPTION, AND ADOPTION
§ 91.070 IMPOUNDMENT GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray, or abandoned, or not
wearing a currently valid registration tag or a currently valid rabies
vaccination tag, as required by state law or this chapter, or not under
restraint in violation of this chapter, may be seized, impounded, and confined
in a humane manner in the animal shelter.
   (B)   Impoundment of such an animal shall not relieve the owner from any
penalty which may be imposed for violation of this chapter.
   (C)   The Health Director shall have the authority to waive the holding
period on a case-by- case basis in instances of extreme overpopulation at the
animal shelter but in no case will an animal be held for less than the 72-hour
period required by G.S. § 130A-192.
   (D)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.071 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Upon impounding an animal the Animal Services Division shall post a notice
of the impoundment at the animal shelter and on the county website during the
holding period or until the animal is redeemed by the owner. Impounded animals
may be offered for adoption or euthanized after the required holding period.
Nothing in this provision shall prohibit the Animal Services Division from
extending the holding period for any animal beyond the required minimum if, in
the opinion of the Animal Services Director, there is a likelihood of locating
the animal owner and/or the animal is considered adoptable and there is
adequate capacity at the animal shelter. Reasonable effort shall be made to
identify the owner of the requirements for redeeming the animal. Notice of an
impoundment may be provided to the owner by telephone, email, or by letter
mailed by regular mail when the owner’s identity and address are known. The
Animal Services Control Division shall exercise due diligence in attempting to
locate the animal owner. Upon impoundment each animal shall be assigned an
impoundment identification number and a release date. The impoundment
identification number and release date shall be posted on the animal’s cage or
kennel. Any information about the animal, including the time, date, and place
the Animal Services Division took custody of the animal and the time and date
of posting the notice of impoundment, shall be available at the animal shelter
by reference to the impoundment identification number.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.072 REDEMPTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of an animal impounded under this chapter, except those
animals suspected of having been exposed to rabies, upon proof of ownership,
may redeem an impounded animal. All applicable fees, expenses, and penalties
shall be paid as a condition of redemption. Failure to redeem an animal shall
not relieve the animal’s owner from paying all applicable fees and penalties.
   (B)   No animal owner may be permitted to adopt his or her own animal under
the provisions of this chapter. The owner must comply with the provisions of
this chapter in order to redeem an animal that has been impounded pursuant to
state law or this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall have no application with respect
to animals surrendered by the owner to the Animal Services Division for
immediate adoption or euthanasia as provided for in §
91.074.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.073 EUTHANASIA OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMAL.
   (A)   Animals not redeemed by their owner within the holding period after
notice of impoundment by the Animal Services Division (where the owner has been
identified) or within the holding period upon posting of an impoundment notice
as required by this chapter (where the owner cannot be identified) may be
offered for adoption, transferred to an approved animal welfare or animal
rescue group, or euthanized by the Animal Services Division. Nothing in this
provision shall prohibit the Animal Services Division from extending the
holding period for any animal beyond the required minimum if, in the opinion of
the Animal Services Director, there is a likelihood of locating the animal
owner and/or the animal is considered adoptable and there is adequate capacity
at the animal shelter. Animals shall not be offered for adoption to an animal
dealer who acquires animals for resale. Persons adopting animals from the
animal shelter shall agree in writing to comply with all local ordinances and
state laws regarding animals. The county will not knowingly release for
adoption any animal which is known to have previously bitten a person, is
aggressive, or has been deemed potentially dangerous or dangerous. Adoption and
adoption related fees may be waived at the discretion of the Health Director
for rescue or animal welfare groups approved by the Health Director. Placement
of animals with approved groups will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
   (B)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being stray or
unclaimed by its owner shall be adopted from the animal shelter during a period
of emergency rabies quarantine invoked pursuant to state law, except by special
authorization of the Health Director.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.074 OWNER SURRENDERED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal surrendered by its owner to the Animal Services Division
may be immediately placed for adoption or humanely euthanized by the Animal
Services Division when:
      (1)   The owner directs in writing that the animal be placed for adoption
or humanely euthanized;
      (2)   The owner attests in writing that he or she is the legal owner of
the animal and that the animal has not bitten a person within the past ten
days. A person tendering the animal to the animal shelter may also be required
to provide additional proof of ownership or documentation from the owner that
he or she is acting on the owner’s behalf; and
      (3)   The owner agrees indemnify and hold the county harmless from any
losses or damages sustained, including attorneys’ fees, by reason of euthanasia
or placement for adoption of the animal; or
   (B)   Upon compliance with divisions (A)(1)-(3) above, the Animal Services
Division may place the animal for adoption, transfer it to an approved animal
welfare or animal rescue group, or euthanize the animal in a humane manner. The
waiting periods provided in §§
91.071 and
91.072 above shall not apply to immediate adoption or euthanasia as provided
for in this section.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.075 RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED FOR REDEMPTION OR ADOPTION OF UNVACCINATED
DOGS OR CATS.
   (A)   Unless written proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished,
or the dog or cat is vaccinated at the animal shelter, every person adopting or
redeeming a dog or cat from the animal shelter will be required to have it
vaccinated for rabies before leaving the animal shelter or a licensed
veterinarian conducting the spay/neuter. The time limit to obtain the rabies
vaccination for puppies and kittens less than four months of age will vary and
will be determined by the Animal Services Division.
   (B)   The proof of rabies vaccination notice will be completed by the
veterinarian and returned to the Animal Services Division within the time
stated in the notice.
   (C)   Payment for rabies vaccination provided for in this section will be
the responsibility of the person redeeming or adopting the animal.
   (D)   Failure to vaccinate for rabies redeemed or adopted cats and dogs is a
violation of this chapter.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.076 ADOPTIONS; ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements found elsewhere in this chapter, any
person wishing to adopt an animal under this chapter, shall agree to hold the
county harmless from any and all claims related to the adoption, and shall:
      (1)   Pay all fees and charges due on the animal. Charges may include,
but not be limited to, boarding and spay or neutering costs.
      (2)   Sign all required adoption documents, which shall include an
adoption agreement with the following provisions:
         (a)   That the person adopting the animal will not sell the animal;
         (b)   That if the new owner no longer wants or cannot adequately care
for the animal he or she will return the animal to the animal shelter; and
         (c)   That he or she agrees to maintain the animal in accordance with
the provisions included in this chapter.
   (B)   All animals adopted from County Animal Services must be sterilized
prior to adopter taking custody of animal unless prior approval from the animal
shelter manager or Animal Services Director.
   (C)   An adopted animal may be exempt from this provision if the owner
furnishes a statement from a licensed veterinarian that the animal, due to
health reasons, could not withstand spay/neuter surgery.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.077 ADOPTION EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Animal Services Division shall not adopt animals to persons less
than 18 years of age.
   (B)   The Animal Services Division may refuse, at the discretion of the
Animal Services Director, to adopt animals to persons or organizations cited or
charged for violations of this chapter or state law or where there exists
reasonable suspicion of abuse, neglect, or mistreatment of animals.
   (C)   Animal Services may refuse adoption to persons who have surrendered
animals to the animal shelter within the past 12 months.
   (D)   Animal welfare and adoption organizations shall provide evidence that
all required veterinarian and related services will be provided to the animals,
and that all necessary permits and licenses have been obtained prior to being
approved for fostering or adoption of animals from the Animal Services
Division. Approved animal welfare and adoption organizations are responsible
for all applicable fees and related costs associated with the animals being
fostered or adopted.
   (E)   The Animal Services Division shall not offer for adoption dogs or
other animals that have been deemed dangerous/potentially dangerous/vicious.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.078 INJURED, DISEASED, OR UNWEANED ANIMALS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal seized and
impounded which is badly injured, diseased (not a rabies suspect), or unweaned
and has no identification shall be euthanized immediately in a humane manner,
provided, however, that otherwise healthy unweaned animals may be released to
animal welfare or animal rescue groups approved by the Health Director on a
case-by-case basis. If the animal has identification, the Animal Services
Division shall attempt to notify the owner before euthanizing the animal. If an
animal is suffering and the owner cannot be reached, after a reasonable attempt
has been made to contact him or her, the Health Department may destroy the
animal at its discretion in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.079 ANIMALS WHICH CANNOT BE SEIZED BY REASONABLE MEANS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an animal that cannot
be safely seized by leash restraint, catch pole restraint, humane trap, or
chemical immobilization without placing unreasonable risks to the public or
Animal Services Officers, may be humanely destroyed by order of the Health
Director or his or her designees.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.080 SECURITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Disposition. Excluding animals under quarantine pursuant to the
provisions of §§
91.050 through
91.053 and §§
91.070 through
91.080, any animal seized pursuant to the provisions of this chapter or under
any state law, may be humanely euthanized or offered for adoption pursuant to
the terms of this chapter at the discretion of the Animal Services Division
after the holding period unless the animal’s owner provides a security bond or
cash in accordance with division (B) below.
   (B)   Bond. Any person claiming an ownership interest in any animal confined
pursuant to this chapter or under any state law, excluding §§
91.050 through
91.053 and §§
91.070 through
91.080, may prevent the disposition of the animal after the holding period; by
posting a security bond or cash with the Animal Services Division prior to the
animal being adopted or euthanized in an amount sufficient to guarantee payment
of all of the reasonable expenses expected to be incurred in caring and
providing for the animal, including the estimated cost of medical care, for at
least 30 days; however, the security shall not prevent the Animal Services
Division from disposing of the animal at the end of the 30-day period covered
by the posted bond/cash, unless the person claiming an ownership interest in
the animal posts an additional security bond or cash with the Animal Services
Division to secure payment of the animal’s reasonable expenses for an
additional 30-day period. The amount of the bond/cash shall be established by
the Animal Services Division based on the current rate for board and on the
condition of the animal after examination by a member of the Animal Services
Division. Failure to timely post the security shall result in the animal being
immediately forfeited to the Animal Services Division for disposition in
accordance with §
91.073 above.
   (C)   Notice. Excluding owner-surrendered animals, if the Animal Services
Division takes custody of an animal pursuant to this chapter or state law,
excluding §§
91.050 through
91.053 and §§
91.070 through
91.080, the division shall give notice of these provisions by posting a copy of
them at the location where the animal was seized or by delivering it to a
person residing on the property of the owner within 24 hours of the time the
animal was seized.
   (D)   Security forfeited upon failure to pay costs. If the fees, costs, and
penalties owed for the animal are not paid in full by the end of each security
period, the security already posted shall be forfeited to the county on the
date and used to pay the remaining unpaid fees, costs, and penalties owing for
the animal. The animal’s owner shall remain responsible for all remaining
unpaid fees, costs, and penalties. Any security bond/cash remaining after the
payment of all fees, costs, and penalties shall be returned to the person who
posted the bond/cash.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 91.090 SUPPLEMENTAL TO STATE DANGEROUS DOG LAWS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement G.S. §§ 67-4.1 and
67-4.5 for the control of potentially dangerous and dangerous dogs or other
animals.
   (B)   Subject to appeal, an animal determined by the Health Director to be
potentially dangerous or dangerous shall be considered and treated in all
respects as dangerous.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.091 BITING OR ATTACKING ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for an animal, which has bitten or attacked a human or
another animal, to remain at large. An Animal Services Officer or member of the
Animal Services Division, upon the issuance of a proper warrant, shall have the
authority to enter upon private property, including entry into a dwelling unit
or other similar building, provided the same is authorized by warrant, to
impound an animal which has been observed to bite or attack, or which is
reliably believed to have bitten or attacked, in violation of this section. A
violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.092 PROTECTIVE MEASURES FOR CONFINEMENT OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR
DANGEROUS DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   It is the purpose of this section to provide guidelines for special
protective measures for all dogs and other animals in the county deemed to be
potentially dangerous or dangerous pursuant to this chapter and G.S. §§ 67-4.1
and 67-4.5, or when special protective measures are otherwise deemed necessary
to protect the safety and welfare of the public and other animals.
   (A)   The Animal Services Division shall have the authority to require the
owner of a dog, or other animal, to comply with protective measures upon a
declaration that the animal is potentially dangerous or dangerous or when
special protective measures are otherwise deemed necessary to protect the
safety and welfare of the public and other animals. Determination of the need
for protective measures shall take the following into consideration:
      (1)   Nature of the particular dog or other animal. The behavior, size,
temperament, capacity for inflicting serious injury, the number of dogs or
other animals, or other similar factors which would be relevant to a
determination of whether or not additional protective measures need to be
imposed for a particular situation;
      (2)   Adequacy of confinement. The adequacy of any existing enclosures or
confinements, if any; and
      (3)   Immediate surrounding area. The likelihood that the conditions and
situations specific to a particular dog or other animal necessitate the
animal’s confinement in order to protect the safety, welfare, peace, and
tranquility of citizens in the immediate surrounding area.
   (B)   Where the Animal Services Division has determined that circumstances
require special protective measures, the Animal Services Division shall have
the authority to require appropriate, specific protective measures which may
include, but are not limited to, the specifications as provided below.
      (1)   A fence of sufficient height, strength, and durability to contain
the dog or animal on the owner’s property at all times.
      (2)   Pens or other enclosures of adequate space, size, and durability
for the particular dog or animal necessary to prevent escape.
      (3)   Warning signs of sufficient size and legibility to be readily seen
and understood by persons within proximity of where the dog or animal is
contained.
      (4)   Other measures as deemed necessary to adequately contain the dog or
animal and prevent unintended contact with other persons or animals.
   (C)   Upon determination that a dog or other animal is potentially
dangerous, dangerous, or a threat to the safety and welfare of the public and
other animals, the Animal Services Division shall issue a written order to the
owner, state the reasons that protective measures are required, identify the
specific protective measures that must be implemented, and state the designated
time period for compliance with the written order. The owner of the dog or
animal shall assure that the dog or animal remains in a secure enclosure and
fully restrained at all times until all protective measures are in place. The
Animal Services Division shall have the authority to exercise discretion for
extensions of time if that is reasonable in view of the good-faith progress of
the owner in implementing the protective measures.
   (D)   A dog or other animal deemed potentially dangerous, dangerous, or a
threat to the safety and welfare of the public and other animals is allowed
only in the following locations:
      (1)   On the premises of the owner or keeper;
      (2)   On private property, with the authorization of the owner of the
property;
      (3)   At a licensed veterinarian for treatment; or
      (4)   In a motor vehicle while being transported.
   (E)   A dog or other animal deemed potentially dangerous, dangerous, or a
threat to the safety and welfare of the public and other animals must be
muzzled, leashed, and held by a competent person capable of restraining the
animal when not inside a secure enclosure or contained within special
protective measures.
   (F)   The Animal Services Division shall have the authority to require the
owner to procure, and provide proof of, liability insurance in the amount of at
least $100,000 at the owner’s expense, and/or to have the dog tattooed, or
micro-chipped, for identification, investigative, or enforcement purposes.
   (G)   The owner of a dog or animal under special protective measures shall
immediately notify the Animal Services Division if the dog or animal escapes
the secure enclosure or the special protective measures or is to be moved to a
different location. The Animal Services Division must approve relocation of the
animal and reissue special protective measures specific to the new location.
The animal owner, if approved, shall receive a written copy of re-issued
protective measures.
   (H)   Animal Services Division shall have the authority to immediately
impound a dog or animal deemed potentially dangerous, dangerous, or a threat to
the safety and welfare of the public and other animals, for failure of the
owner to comply with a special protective measures written order within the
designated time or failure to confine the dog or animal in accordance with the
special protective measures. The Animal Services Division may hold the animal
until such time as the owner fully complies with the special protective
measures, or the dog or animal is ordered released by the Animal Appeals Board
or court of competent jurisdiction, is surrendered by the owner, or ownership
of the animal is awarded by the court to the Animal Services Division.
   (I)   The penalty for failure to comply with a special protective measures
written order shall be $500 per day.
   (J)   The owner of any dog, or other animal, seized pursuant to this
provision or court order shall be responsible for payment of all applicable
fees, fines, or other costs associated with impoundment of the dog or animal.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.093 APPEALS FROM THE DETERMINATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS
DOG.
   (A)   The Animal Appeals Board shall hear appeals from any determination
that a dog or other animal is potentially dangerous, dangerous, or a threat to
the safety and welfare of the public and other animals.
   (B)   The Animal Appeals Board shall be composed of five members; a
veterinarian, a representative of a law enforcement agency, a person with
animal behavior, breeding, or training experience, and two members from the
general public. The two general public members, veterinarian member, and person
with animal breeding, behavior, or training experience shall be appointed by
the Board of Health. The Health Director shall request appointment of a law
enforcement representative from local law enforcement agencies on a rotating
basis. The Board of Health shall determine terms of appointments and general
operating procedures for the Animal Appeals Board.
   (C)   The owner may appeal a determination by: filing a written notice of
appeal within ten days of the determination (excluding holidays and weekends)
on the Request for Appeal form provided by the Health Department Animal
Services Division; and
   (D)   The Animal Appeals Board shall schedule a hearing within 10 business
days of receipt of the appeal and the hearing shall be held within 30 days of
the determination. Decisions of the Animal Appeals Board shall be issued in
writing within 10 days after hearing the appeal.
   (E)   A person aggrieved by the decision of the Board may appeal to Superior
Court of the county within ten days of receipt of the Board’s decision. The
appeal shall be heard de novo before a Superior Court judge sitting in the
county.
   (F)   All owners who have filed an appeal before the Animal Appeals Board or
Superior Court must comply with the provisions set forth in §
91.092 “Protective Measures for Confinement of Potentially Dangerous or
Dangerous Dogs or Other Animals” during the appeal process.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The violation of any provision of this chapter which is
specifically designated as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor and any
person convicted of the violation shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-
4. Each day’s violation of such a provision shall be a separate offense.
Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings pursuant to this division
does not relieve a person of his or her liability for registration or fees
imposed under or pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by appropriate
equitable remedy, injunction, or order of abatement issuing from a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to G.S. § 153A-123(d) and (e), or any other
applicable law.
      (3)   In addition to and not in lieu of the criminal penalties and other
sanctions provided in this chapter, a violation of this chapter may also
subject the offender to civil penalties.
         (a)   The civil penalties may be recovered by the county in a civil
action in the nature of debt or may be collected in a debt setoff program as
designated by the Health Director following the issuance of citation for the
violation.
         (b)   The Health Director is authorized to accept the payment in full
and final settlement of the claim or claims, right or rights of action, which
the county may have to enforce the penalty by civil action in the nature of
debt. Acceptance of the penalty shall be deemed a full and final release of any
and all the claims, or rights of action arising out of the alleged violation or
violations.
         (c)   The civil penalties for violation of this chapter shall be as
set forth below. The penalty shall be paid within 14 days from and after the
issuance of the citation referred to above.
         (d)   The citation of violation referred to herein may be delivered to
the person violating the provisions of this chapter in person, may be mailed or
posted to that person at his or her last known address.
         (e)   All penalties paid to the Health Director as well as those
recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt as herein provided shall be
paid into the general fund of the county.
   (B)   Fee schedule.
Subject/Code Section Fee
Subject/Code Section                Fee
Civil penalty for violation of this  
chapter
   1st offense                   $100/violation
   2nd offense                   $200/violation
   3rd offense                   $300/violation
   Subsequent offenses           $500/violation
Failure to vaccinate for rabies     $100/violation
Failure to confine for rabies       $100 per day of violation up to 10 days
observation
Interference with enforcement       $250/violation
Animal cruelty                      $500/violation
 
(Ord. passed 9-18-2017; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Noise; generally
   
92.03   Sound level meter not required
   
92.04   Maximum permissible standards by receiving land
   
92.05   Exceptions
   
92.06   Sound measurement standards
   
92.07   Permit to exceed maximum permissible standards
   
92.08   Burden of proof of noise violations
   
92.09   Presumption in prosecution for noise violations
   
92.10   Abrogation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “A” WEIGHTING SCALE. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured with a
sound level meter using the “A” weighted network. The standard unit notation is
db(A).
   AMBIENT BASE NOISE LEVEL. The average sound pressure level in db(A) during a
reasonable period of time, as determined by employing a sound level meter as
described in §
92.06.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute or its successor organization.
   CONSTRUCTION. On-site erection, fabrication, installation, alteration,
demolition or removal of any structure, facility or addition thereto, including
all related activities, including, but not restricted to, clearing of land,
earth moving, blasting and landscaping.
   db(A). Sound level in decibels determined by the “A” weighting scale of a
standard sound level meter having characteristics defined by the American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) Publications ANSI, S1.4 4, latest edition.
   DECIBEL. A unit of measure on a logarithmic scale, of the ratio of the
magnitude of a particular sound pressure to a standard reference pressure,
which for purposes of this chapter shall be 20 micronewtons/meter.
   DISTURBING. Noise that is perceived by a person of ordinary sensibilities as
interrupting the normal peace and calm of daily life. In determining whether a
noise is unreasonably loud and DISTURBING, the following factors incident to
the noise are to be considered: time of day; proximity to occupied residential
structures; whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent or constant; the
volume and intensity; the character and zoning (if applicable) of the area;
whether the noise is related to the normal operations of a business or other
labor activity and whether the noise is subject to being controlled without
unreasonable effort or expense to the creator, thereof.
   DULY AUTHORIZED INVESTIGATING PERSON OR AGENT. A person or agent is duly
authorized if he or she is an employee of the Chatham County Sheriff’s Office.
   EMERGENCY WORK. Work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition;
work required to protect, provide, or prevent persons or property from danger
or potential danger; or work by a private or public utility when restoring
utility service.
   IMPACT NOISE. Sound that occurs intermittently rather than continuously.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust,
estate, public or private institution, group, agency, political subdivision of
the state any other state or political subdivision or agency thereof or any
legal successor, employee, representative, agent or agency of the foregoing.
   SOUND LEVEL. In decibels, a weighted sound pressure level determined by the
use of a sound level meter whose characteristics and frequency weightings are
specified in the ANSI Standard.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. Any instrument certified to meet or exceed ANSI standards
which includes omni-directional microphone, an amplifier, an output meter, and
frequency weighting network(s) for the measurement of sound level.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. In decibels 20 times the logarithm to the base ten of
the ratio of the magnitude of a particular sound pressure to the standard
pressure. The standard pressure is 20 micronewtons/meter.
   UNREASONABLY LOUD. Noise which is substantially incompatible with the time
and location where created to the extent that it interferes with peace or good
order.
   WEEKDAY. Any day except Sunday.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015)
§ 92.02 NOISE; GENERALLY.
   Unreasonably loud and disturbing noises prohibited. It shall be unlawful for
any person or persons to make, permit, continue or cause to be made or to
create any unreasonably loud and disturbing noise in the county regardless of
its source. A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 SOUND LEVEL METER NOT REQUIRED.
   A sound meter shall not be required to determine whether a sound is
unreasonably loud and disturbing. However, a sound meter may be used as
evidence of a violation, provided it is properly calibrated and conforms to
ANSI Standards.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2015)
§ 92.04 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE STANDARDS BY RECEIVING LAND.
   (A)   The maximum permissible daily standard shall not exceed 60 decibels
without a permit by the receiving land. The maximum permissible daily standard
with a permit shall not exceed 80 decibels by the receiving land, and shall be
immediately reduced to 60 decibels as defined in the time table listed in
division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Unless a permit has been issued no person shall exceed 60 decibels
during the following hours:
 
MAXIMUM NOISE LIMITATION WITH A PERMIT
Shall not exceed 80 decibels at any time:
Sunday - Thursday 7:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m.  up to 80 decibels
Friday - Saturday 7:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. up to 80 decibels
 
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
§ 92.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following sounds shall be exempt from provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Construction operations from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and 8:
00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. on Sundays for which building permits have been issued, or
construction operations not requiring permits during such hours, provided all
equipment is operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications and
with all standard equipment, manufacturer’s mufflers and noise reducing
equipment in use and in proper operating condition;
   (B)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure relief
valves and church bells;
   (C)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle when responding
to any emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
   (D)   Noises at street activities (such as fairs or parades) where the
participants have a permit for the conduct of the activity and for the uses of
the streets;
   (E)   All noises coming from the normal operation of properly equipped
aircraft (not including scale model aircraft);
   (F)   All noises coming from motor vehicles properly equipped with the
manufacturer’s standard muffler and noise reducing equipment in use and in
proper operations condition;
   (G)   Noise from lawful fireworks and noisemakers on holidays;
   (H)   Lawn mowers and residential landscaping equipment used between
daylight and 9:00 p.m. when operated with all the manufacturer’s standard
mufflers and noise reducing equipment in use and in proper operation condition;
   (I)   Agricultural equipment operated for farming purposes including poultry
farming, when operated in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications and
with all standard equipment, including manufacturer’s mufflers and noise
reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition;
   (J)   Any sound resulting from the natural behavior of farm animals or for
animal husbandry purposes in areas where it does not violate local zoning
regulations;
   (K)   Any sound resulting from activities of a temporary duration permitted
by law, and for which a license or permit has been granted by the county or a
state or federal agency when the sounds do not exceed the conditions and limits
stated in the license or permit;
   (L)   Any sound resulting from activities to meet the requirements for
training of sworn law enforcement officials and its members using county owned
facilities or real property;
   (M)   Any sound resulting from an explosive device, which, in the opinion of
the Sheriff or Fire Marshal, or Director of Emergency Management, should be
deliberately set off in order to secure the safety of the public; and
   (N)   Any sound resulting from the firing of weapons at a sport shooting
range exempted from liability or prosecution under G.S. § 14-409.46.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015)
§ 92.06 SOUND MEASUREMENT STANDARDS.
   A sound meter may be used as evidence of a violation provided the following
standards are followed:
   (A)   Sound level measurement shall be made with a sound level meter using
the “A” weighting scale set on “slow response.”
   (B)   Sound level meters shall be of at least Type Three meeting American
National Standards Institute (ANSI) S1.4, latest edition Requirements. The
entire sound measurement system shall be serviced and operated as recommended
by the manufacturer. Persons using the sound level meter shall be trained in
should level measurement and the operation of sound level meters.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (D) below, noise measurements shall be
taken at a point on the complainant’s property line nearest the noise source,
but when this location is not practicable in the opinion of the duly authorized
law enforcement officer because of ambient noise at the complainant’s source,
or some other factor that is distorting a proper reading, noise measurements
shall be made at the boundary of the public or private right-of-way which
adjoins the complainant’s property.
   (D)   In the case of noises emanating from within a multi-family structure
and where the complainant is a resident of the same multi-family structure,
noise measurements shall be made in the unit of the complainant at the height
of at least four feet above the floor and at a point approximately equal
distance from all walls.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015)
§ 92.07 PERMIT TO EXCEED MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No person or group of persons shall operate or cause to be operated a
source of sound in excess of sound levels as specified in §
92.04 without first obtaining a permit as hereinafter set forth.
   (B)   Any person or persons desiring a permit shall apply as provided herein
and provide all information required.
      (1)   A legally responsible person of 18 years or older, must be listed
on the permit.
      (2)   An application for a permit pursuant to this division shall be
submitted to the county’s central permitting office at least seven days prior
to the event or activity. Upon tentative approval, the applicant for a permit
shall be responsible for mailing or otherwise delivering to the occupants of
each property within a 1,000-foot radius of the facility or property for which
the permit is being considered, as shown on the tax maps of the county, a
notice stating the date and hours of the event. The notice shall be delivered
at least 72 hours in advance of the event. The permit shall not be granted
until the applicant submits an affidavit to central permitting that the notices
have actually been mailed or delivered. An application may be accepted with
less than seven days’ notice provided notice to property owners is achieved
within 72 hours of the event.
      (3)   The applicant or applicant’s designee shall have the permit present
at the event and available for inspection upon request by any law enforcement
officer; otherwise the permit becomes null and void.
      (4)   The County Manager, or his or her designee, will act expeditiously
upon all requests for a permit to exceed maximum permissible sound levels.
      (5)   In considering and acting on all requests for permits pursuant to
this section, the County Manager, or his or her designee, shall consider the
following in issuing or denying the permit: the timeliness of the application;
the nature of the requested activity or event; the time of the event, and other
activities in the vicinity of the location proposed; the effect of the activity
on surrounding areas and/or persons; previous noise ordinance violations or
failure to provide any of the provisions in this division, if any, of the
applicant, and any other relevant information at his or her disposal. Any
person aggrieved by a permit decision may seek review by certiorari in the
Superior Court of the county.
      (6)   Prior to obtaining a permit to exceed maximum permissible sound
levels, the applicant will pay to the county an administrative fee of $50, or
the then current fee. The information included in the permit shall include the
type of activity, purpose of the event, address of event, date of the event or
activity.
      (7)   Permit holders shall cooperate with the County Sheriff’s office in
enforcing this chapter by having the applicant or applicant’s designee as
indicated on the permit application physically present at the site of the event
during the entire time for which a permit has been issued and shall agree to
assist the Sheriff in enforcing this chapter. The permit holder shall allow the
Sheriff’s officer to enter the premises at any time during the prescribed
activity in order to assess compliance. Failure of the applicant or designee to
be present or to assist the Sheriff as herein prescribed shall be cause for
revocation of the permit.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 BURDEN OF PROOF OF NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   In any proceeding based upon this chapter, if an exception stated in this
chapter would limit an obligation or limit liability, the person seeking the
exception shall have the burden of establishing that the exception applies and
that the terms of the exception have been met.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015)
§ 92.09 PRESUMPTION IN PROSECUTION FOR NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   The complaints of two or more persons who have heard the noise, at least one
of whom resides in a different home from the other complaining persons or
persons, or the complaint of a duly-authorized law enforcement officer, shall
be prima facie evidence that the sound is unreasonably loud and disturbing.
Sound emission decibel measurements shall not be required for establishment of
a prima facie case. While, complainants are encouraged to contact law
enforcement to report an unreasonably loud and disturbing noise prior to
swearing out a warrant or other criminal process from a magistrate; they are
not required to do so. Prior to appearing before the Magistrate, however, a
verbal or written request asking the offending party to stop the offending
noise is required. Any magistrate shall upon hearing convincing evidence under
oath of two or more persons who have heard the noise, and not speaking on
behalf of another person, shall issue a citation or other enforcement
mechanism. A verbal or written request is not required before contacting law
enforcement.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015; Am. Ord. passed 3-19-2018)
§ 92.10 ABROGATION.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any greater
restrictions imposed by covenants or deed restrictions. Wherever the provisions
of any other law, ordinance or regulation impose higher standards than are
required by the provisions of this chapter, the provision of such other law,
ordinance or regulation shall govern.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a civil penalty of $100. Each 24-hour period, defined as
12:00 midnight to 11:59 p.m. of a continuing violation, shall constitute a
separate offense under this chapter. The County Manager shall assess civil
penalties under this chapter and shall make written demand for payment upon the
person responsible for the violation. If payment is not received or equitable
settlement reached within 60 days after demand for payment is made, the matter
may be referred to the County Attorney for institution of a civil action in the
name of the county in the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice
for recovery of the penalty.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this
chapter which is specifically designated as a misdemeanor shall be a Class 3
misdemeanor and any person convicted of the violation shall be punishable as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, or a fine not to exceed $500 in accordance with G.S. §
153A-123, or both. Each day of a continuing violation shall constitute a
separate offense under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2006; Ord. passed 10-19-2015; Ord. passed 3-19-2018; Ord.
passed 11-15-2021)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   General provisions
   
93.02   Fire Marshal to enforce
   
93.03   Adoption of technical codes and standards
   
93.04   Inspection of buildings and premises
   
93.05   Permits
   
93.06   Service orders or notices
   
93.07   Aboveground and underground tank installation
   
93.08   Tank removal; aboveground and underground
   
93.09   Fire inspection fee schedule
   
93.10   Removal of obstructions; prohibited parking
   
93.11   Fire hydrants
   
93.12   Emergency entry
   
93.13   Investigation of fires
   
93.14   Fire records
 
   
93.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Inspection Schedule
   
Appendix B:   Fee Schedule
   
Appendix C:   Civil Penalties
§ 93.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the Fire Prevention and Fire
Protection Chapter of Chatham County, North Carolina, and may be cited as that
and referred to herein as "the code."
   (B)   Intent of the code.
      (1)   It is the intent of the code to prescribe regulations consistent
with nationally recognized good practice for the safeguarding of life and
property within the jurisdiction of the county from the hazards of fire and
explosion arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances,
materials, devices and from the use or occupancy of buildings and premises.
      (2)   The code shall not be construed to hold the county responsible for
any damage to persons or property by reason of the inspection or re-inspection
authorized herein or failure to inspect or re-inspect or the permits issued or
denied as herein provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any
equipment authorized herein.
   (C)   Mission and purpose. The mission of the County Fire Marshal's Office
is to reduce and possibly eliminate the unnecessary loss of lives and property
due to avoidable fires within the county. To accomplish this, the County Fire
Marshal's Office shall provide effective fire prevention education, fire
inspection and code enforcement, fire investigation assistance, arson
mitigation, expedient concern/complaint response, and act as a liaison to the
fire departments within the county.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
Statutory references:
   Authority to levy taxes to provide fire protection services and fire
prevention programs, see G.S. § 153A-149(c)(11), G.S. § 143-138(b); local code.
   County Fire Protection (General), see G.S. §§ 153A-233 through 153A-235
§ 93.02 FIRE MARSHAL TO ENFORCE.
   The Fire Prevention and Protection Code of the county shall be enforced by
the County Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representatives or as
otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.03 ADOPTION OF TECHNICAL CODES AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein that
certain code known as the entitled the State Fire Prevention Code of the State
Building Code most current edition. Copies of the County Fire Prevention and
Protection Code and all technical codes and standards adopted by reference,
shall be filed with, and available for public inspection in the offices of the
Clerk to the Board of County Commissioners and the Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Amendments to codes and standards adopted by reference herein which
are adopted and published by the State Building Code Council shall be effective
in the county at the time the amendments become part of the State Fire
Prevention Code of the State Building Code most current edition.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.04 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   Subject to the limitations and conditions stated in the State Building Code
most current edition, it shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal and/or his or
her authorized representative to inspect or cause to be inspected according to
the schedule (
Appendix A) of this chapter, or as often as he or she may deem necessary or
appropriate all buildings, structures and premises within this jurisdiction for
the purposes of ascertaining and causing to be corrected any condition which
may cause fire or explosion, endanger life from fire or explosion, or any
violations of the provisions of the code, or any other ordinance pertaining to
fire or explosion hazards.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.05 PERMITS.
   (A)   This code shall require permits from the Fire Marshal as set forth in
the State Fire Prevention Code of the State Building Code most current edition.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized
representative to evaluate applications and issue, if approved, all permits for
those conditions as prescribed in the State Fire Prevention Code of the State
Building Code most current edition, and this code.
   (C)   No person shall maintain, store, handle materials and conduct
processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or property or install
equipment used in conjunction with those activities without a permit as
required by the Fire Marshal and prescribed in the State Fire Prevention Code
of the State Building Code most current edition and this code. Before a permit
may be issued, the Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative,
shall inspect and approve the receptacles, vehicles, buildings, structures,
storage areas, devices, processes and conditions related to the permit.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 SERVICE ORDERS OR NOTICES.
   (A)   The service of orders or notices for the correction of violations of
the code shall be made upon the owner, occupant or other person responsible for
the conditions, either by personally delivering a copy of same to that person,
or by delivering the same to and leaving it with any person in charge of the
premises, or notice by certified mail to the owner's last known address.
   (B)   When buildings or other premises are occupied by one other than the
owner under a lease or other agreement, the orders or notices issued to correct
violations of the code shall apply to the occupant thereof; provided that where
the order or notices require the making of additions or changes in the premises
themselves which may become part of the real property of the owner, then in
those cases, the orders or notices shall also be issued to the owner of the
premises or real property. Failure to deliver an order or notice to the owner,
if other than the occupant, shall not invalidate the order or notice.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.07 ABOVEGROUND AND UNDERGROUND TANK INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Before any aboveground or underground tank used for the storage of
volatile flammable or combustible liquids or any other hazardous material
covered by the provisions of this code shall be installed, a permit must be
issued and shall be granted only upon written application made to the County
Fire Marshal's Office setting forth therein the location, character, size/
capacity and purpose of which it is to be used and an agreement that the
applicant, or user will conform to all the provisions of this code and the
ordinances then existing, and in case a pump is to be used in connection
therewith, the application shall state its location with respect to the tanks
and with respect to all property lines.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative shall
determine whether the proposed tanks comply with the provisions of this code,
the ordinances of the county, laws of the state, and shall issue the permit if
he or she finds there is compliance.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative shall
have the right to inspect the tanks and ancillary equipment before and after
installation, and ensure that its location, installation and operation are in
accordance with this code, the ordinances of the county and laws of the state.
   (D)   After the tank is placed in the excavation, and fittings and
connections have been attached, thereto, and before it has been covered or
concealed from inspection, the applicant for the permit shall notify the Fire
Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative and shall wait until the
installation of the tank connections and fittings have been approved by the
Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative before covering them.
      (1)   Aboveground fuel storage tanks may be installed at automotive
service stations when installed in strict compliance with the applicable
requirements of NFPA #30 and NFPA #30A.
      (2)   Unattended service stations open to the public for the dispensing
of motor fuels shall be allowed providing they meet all of the applicable
requirements of Chapter 22 of the State Fire Prevention Code of the State
Building Code most current edition and this code.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.08 TANK REMOVAL; ABOVEGROUND AND UNDERGROUND.
   Before any aboveground or underground tank used for the storage of volatile
flammable or combustible liquids or any other hazardous material covered by the
provisions of this code shall be removed, a permit must be issued and shall be
granted only upon written application made to the County Fire Marshal's Office
setting forth therein the location, character, size/capacity, removal date,
degassing method to be used, and location to where the tank will be taken.
Aboveground and underground tanks must be removed from the property the same
day of the actual removal. The Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized
representative shall have the right to inspect the tanks and ancillary
equipment before and after actual removal.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.09 FIRE INSPECTION FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Fees for fire prevention inspections required by this code shall be
determined by resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. The fees are set
forth in
Appendix B of the ordinance codified herein. A fire prevention inspection fee
schedule shall be filed with the Clerk to the Board of County Commissioners and
the Fire Marshal's office for public inspection.
   (B)   Fees for fire prevention inspections required by this code shall be
paid within the number of days specified in the billing or notice of the amount
of fees due with the exception of “special event” permit inspections which must
be paid “prior” to the inspection.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.10 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS; PROHIBITED PARKING.
   Any vehicle found to be obstructing any fire hydrant; designated fire
protection equipment, designated fire lanes and fire stations may be removed or
towed away by or under the direction of the Fire Marshal and/or his or her
authorized representative to a storage area or garage. The owner of the vehicle
shall be deemed to have appointed the Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized
representative as his or her agent for the purpose of arranging for the
transportation and storage of the vehicle. The owner of the vehicle, before
obtaining possession thereof, shall pay all reasonable costs incidental to the
removal and storage of the vehicle due for the violation of prohibited parking.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.11 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative shall
participate in the plan review of all water line extensions within the county
and make recommendations as to water main size and fire hydrant location.
   (B)   Proposed water mains of six inches or larger in diameter shall be
provided with fire hydrants spaced at a distance of no more than 1,000 feet on
center in all areas other than developments and/or subdivisions. Fire hydrants
shall be placed at a maximum distance of 500 feet on center in proposed
developments and/or subdivisions.
   (C)   Where proposed water main extensions (six inches or larger) are
extended to existing developments and/or subdivisions a minimum of one fire
hydrant shall be provided within 1,000 feet of the developments and/or
subdivisions. In the determination of any fire hydrant location, consideration
shall be given to proposed population density, geography and locations of roads
and intersections.
   (D)   All proposed water main extensions of six inches or larger shall be
reviewed by the County Public Works Director and the County Fire Marshal on a
case by case basis. The Fire Marshal's Office shall be advised of water system
flow testing and be provided documentation of the results of the testing.
   (E)   Where a portion of a commercial facility or building is hereafter
constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction is more than 400 feet from
a hydrant, on a fire apparatus access road, as measured by an approved route
around the exterior of the facility or building, on-site fire hydrants and
mains shall be required by the Code Official. For Group R-3 and Group U
occupancies, the distance requirement shall be 600 feet. For buildings equipped
with an approved automatic sprinkler system installed in accordance with
Chapter 9 of the State Fire Prevention Code of the State Building Code (most
current edition), the distance requirement shall be 600 feet.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.12 EMERGENCY ENTRY.
   The Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative, or any Fire
Chief and/or his or her authorized representative of fire departments serving
the County Fire Protection Districts shall have the right to enter any
emergency situation constituting a threat posed by fire and explosion to human
life, property or the public safety for the purpose of eliminating, controlling
or abating the dangerous condition or situation.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.13 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal's Office shall investigate the cause, origin and the
circumstances of fires occurring in the county which are of a suspicious nature
when requested by any fire department serving a County Fire District. The Fire
Marshal's Office shall assist the fire departments in investigating the cause,
origin and the circumstances of fires and explosions resulting in the loss of
life within the county. The Fire Marshal's Office shall coordinate
investigation activities with the fire departments having jurisdiction. The
fire departments shall cooperate with the Fire Marshal's Office in the
investigation of any fires in the county when requested. Any information
pursuant to any investigation shall be confidential as authorized by law.
   (B)   The County Sheriff's Department upon the request of the Fire Marshal
and/or his or her authorized representative may render assistance as necessary
in the investigation of any fire determined to be of a suspicious cause.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.14 FIRE RECORDS.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal's Office shall keep a record of all fires that the
Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative assisted the fire
departments in investigating as to the cause, origin, and circumstances of
fires and explosions. All records shall be public except as provided in §
93.13 above.
   (B)   Fire Departments shall keep a record of all emergency alarms and/or
responses and submit reports of the same to the Fire Marshal's Office as the
Fire Marshal prescribes.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code hereby
adopted or who shall fail to comply with any judicial warrant, lawful order or
regulation made there under or who builds in violation of any specifications or
plans submitted and approved there under or any permit issued there under shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. In the name of the county, the Fire Marshal,
through the County Attorney, may enjoin the construction or erection of any
facility, building or structure which does not conform to the provisions of the
code.
   (B)   This code may be enforced by any of the remedies set forth in G.S. §
153A-123, in addition to others specifically set out herein or in the county
code.
   (C)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this code shall be
subject to a civil penalty for each violation in the amount established in
Appendix C of the ordinance codified herein, a copy of which shall be filed
with the Clerk to the Board of County Commissioners and Fire Marshal's Office
for public inspection. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (D)   Civil penalties must be paid within 72 hours after a citation has been
issued by the Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative for
violations. The Fire Marshal and/or his or her authorized representative are
authorized to issue written citations in the name of the county for violations.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
APPENDIX A: INSPECTION SCHEDULE
   (A)   In order to preserve and to protect public health and safety, and to
satisfy the requirements of G.S. §§ 153A-364 and 160A-424, political
subdivisions assuming inspection duties, as set out in G.S. §§ 153A-351 and
160A-411, shall have a periodic inspection schedule for the purpose of
identifying activities and conditions in buildings, structures and premises
that pose dangers of fire, explosion or related hazards. The inspection
schedule shall be approved by the local governing body and shall be submitted
to the Division of Engineering of the Department of Insurance by January 1,
1993. In no case may inspections be conducted less frequently than described in
the schedule below:
      (1)   Once a year. Hazardous, Institutional, High Rise, Assembly and
Residential except one- and two-family dwellings and only interior common areas
of dwelling units of multi-family occupancies;
      (2)   Once every two years. Industrial and Educational (except public
schools);
      (3)   Once every three years. Business, Mercantile, Storage, Churches and
Synagogues; and
      (4)   Twice a year. Public Schools.
   (B)   Frequency rates for inspections of occupancies as mandated by the
General Statutes shall supersede this schedule. Nothing in this section is
intended to prevent a jurisdiction from conducting more frequent inspections
than the schedule listed above or the schedule filed with the Engineering
Division of the State Department of Insurance.
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
APPENDIX B: FEE SCHEDULE
Building Use Code Fee Occupancy Type
Building Use Code                          Fee             Occupancy Type
A1  Apartments (Common Area) 3—4 unit    $50             A Assembly (1)
A2  Apartments (Common Area) Over 5 units  $75             B Business (3)
AS1 Assembly Occupancies 0—2,000 sq. ft. $30             D Day Care/Headstart
                                                           (1)
AS2 Assembly Occupancies 2,001—5,000 sq. $50             E Educational (6
    ft.                                                    Months)
AS3 Assembly Occupancies 5,001 sq. ft. and $100            F Factory/Industrial
    above                                                  (2)
DA  Day Care Facilities                    $30             G Church (3)
EP  Educational Private Schools            $100            H Hazardous (1)
EX  Exempt                                 EXEMPT          I Institutional (1)
FH  Foster Homes                           EXEMPT          M Mercantile (3)
GB1 General Business 0—500 sq. ft        $30             R Residential (1)
GB2 General Business 501—2,500 sq. ft.   $45             S Storage (3)
GB3 General Business 2,501—10,000 sq. ft.$60             P Permit
GB4 General Business 10,001 sq. ft. and    $100            U Utility (3)
    above
GM1 General Mercantile 0—500 sq. ft.     $30             V Vacant (1)
GM2 General Mercantile 501—2,500 sq. ft. $45
GM3 General Mercantile 2,501—10,000 sq.  $60
    ft.
GM4 General Mercantile 10,001 sq. ft. and  $100
    above
HA  Hotels/Motels up to 10 units           $45
HL  Hotels/Motels over 10 units            $75
HM  Hazardous Materials                    $100
HP  Hospitals                              $150
11  Institutional Facility 5 or less       $30
12  Institutional Facility 6—21 people   $75
13  Institutional Facility over 21 people  $125
LY  Lumber Yards                           $100
MS  Mfg./Industrial less than 2,501 sq.    $50
    ft.
MM  Mfg./Industrial 2,501 — 10,000 sq. ft$100
ML  Mfg./Industrial 10,001 sq. ft. and     $150
    above
PS  Public Schools                         EXEMPT
SP  Special Permit                         Varies
U1  Utility 0—500 sq. ft.                $30
U2  Utility 501—2,500 sq. ft.            $45
U3  Utility 2501—10,000 sq. ft.          $60
U4  Utility 10,001 sq. ft. and above       $100
VC1 Vacant less than 501 sq. ft.           $30
VC2 Vacant 501—2,500 sq. ft.             $45
VC3 Vacant 2,501—20,000 sq. ft.          $60
VC4 Vacant 20,000 sq. ft. and above        $100
W1  Warehouse less than 501 sq. ft.        $30
W2  Warehouse 501—2,500 sq. ft.          $45
W3  Warehouse 2,501— 20,000 sq. ft.      $60
W4  Warehouse 20,001 sq. ft. and above     $100
Special Use Permits
ABC Alcohol Permit                         $50
ASR Aboveground fuel storage tank removal  $150 (Per Tank)
AST Aboveground fuel storage tank          $150 (Per Tank)
    installation
EXP Blasting, Explosives                   $50
FAS Fire alarm system acceptance test      $75
FIN Civil citation                         Varies
FLP Fuel Line Pressure Test                $30
FSY Fire Systems Inspections               $75
FWK Fireworks                              $50
HYD Fire sprinkler hydrostatic test        $75
KHS Kitchen hood system acceptance test    $75
PBH Paint booth hood system                $75
PRA Plan Review Fire Alarm                 $75
PRS Plan Review Sprinklers                 $75
SES Special Events                         $75
TEN Tents (Air Filled Structures)          $50
UTA UST Abandonment                        $100
UTI UST Installation                       $150 (Per Tank)
UTR UST Removal                            $150 (Per Tank)
 
Occupancy Types
Occupancy Types
Assembly
   Amusement park buildings
   Auditoriums
   Churches
   Dance halls
   Gymnasiums
   Motion picture theaters
   Museums
   Passenger depots
   Public assembly halls
   Recreation halls
   Restaurants
   Stadiums and grandstands
   Tents for assembly
   Theaters for stage production
Business
   Animal hospitals, kennels, pounds
   Automobile and other motor vehicle showrooms
   Automobile and other vehicle service stations
   Banks
   Barber shops
   Beauty shops
   Bowling alleys
   Carwashes
   Civic administration areas
   Clinics-outpatient
   Dry cleaning-pickup and delivery stations and self-service
   Educational occupancies above the 12th grade
   Electronic data processing areas
   Florist and nurseries
   General post offices
   Greenhouses
   Laboratories-(testing and research) (non-hazardous)
   Laundries-pickup and delivery stations and self-service
   Libraries (other than school)
   Office buildings
   Print shops
   Professional services-attorney, dentists, physician, engineer and the like
   Radio and TV stations
   Telephone exchanges
Educational
   Educational buildings through the 12th grade.
   Child care facilities which accommodate children of any age who stay less than 24
hours per day shall be classified as Group E
Factory Industrial
   Assembly
   Factory
   Manufacturing
   Plant mill
   Processing plant
Hazardous
   Group H occupancy is the principal use of a building or structure, or any portion
thereof, that involves the manufacturing, processing, generation, storage or other
use of hazardous materials in excess of the exempt quantities listed in § 308 Volume
I of the Building Code
Institutional
   Unrestrained
      Detoxification facilities
      Hospitals
      Mental hospitals
      Nursing homes
   Restrained
      Correctional institutions
      Detention centers
      Jails
      Reformatories
Mercantile
   Department stores
   Drug stores
   Markets
   Retail stores
   Sales rooms
   Shopping centers
   Wholesale stores (other than warehouses)
Residential
   R1
      Boarding house
      Hotels
      Motels
   R2
      Apartment houses
      Convents
      Fraternities
      Sororities
   Dormitory facilities (more than 6 persons at least 2-1/2 years of age that stay
more than 24 hours.)
      Monasteries
      Rectories
   R3
      Child care facilities that accommodate 5 or less of any age
      One- and two-family dwellings
      Rooming houses (transient)
Storage
   Group S occupancy is the principal use of a building or structure, or any portion
thereof, for storage that is not classed as a Group H occupancy, including buildings
or structures used for the purpose of sheltering animals
Utility
   Building and structures of an accessory character and miscellaneous structures not
classified in any specific occupancy shall be constructed, equipped and maintained to
conform to the requirements of the code commensurate with the fire and life hazard
incidental to their occupancy. Group U shall include, but not be limited to the
following:
      Agricultural buildings
      Aircraft hangar, accessory to a one-or two family residence (see § 412.3 of the
International Building Code)
      Barns
      Carports
      Fences more than 6 feet (1,829 mm) high
      Grain silos, accessory to a residential occupancy
      Greenhouses
      Livestock shelters
      Private garages
      Retaining walls
      Sheds
      Stables
      Tanks
      Towers
 
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
APPENDIX C: CIVIL PENALTIES
Violation Civil Penalty
Violation                               Civil Penalty
Blocked and/or locked exits             $150 per violation/per day
Illegal burning                         $150 per violation/per day (after one
                                        written warning)
Inoperable fire systems                 $150 per violation/per day
Illegal fireworks                       $150 per violation/per day
Exceeding occupancy posting             $150 per violation/per day
Transmitting false alarms               $150 per violation/per day
Improper storage of hazardous materials $150 per violation/per day (after one
                                        written warning)
Removal/tampering with fire equipment   $150 per violation/per day
All other violations to the technical   $50 per violation/per day
codes
 
(Ord. passed - -2010; Ord. passed 11-19-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION RECYCLING
         
111.   JUNK YARD CONTROL
         
112.   CABLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS STANDARDS
         
113.   EMERGENCY MEDICAL, FIRST RESPONDER, AND RESCUE SERVICES
         
114.   NON-DISCRIMINATION IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS AND IN EMPLOYMENT
CHAPTER 110: CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION RECYCLING
 
Section
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Authority
   
110.03   Purpose
   
110.04   Definitions
   
110.05   Jurisdiction
   
110.06   Compliance required
   
110.07   Disposal of C&D debris
   
110.08   Completion of C&D debris management section on permit application
   
110.09   Administration
   
110.10   Inspections
   
110.11   Assistance and variances
   
110.12   Prohibited acts
   
110.13   Licenses required
   
110.14   Revocation or suspension of a license
   
110.15   Revocation or suspension proceedings
   
110.16   Reports
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 TITLE.
   The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known as and may be cited as
The Chatham County Construction and Demolition Recycling Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.02 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted Chatham County by
G.S. §§ 153A-121 and 153A-136 and other relevant law.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is:
   (A)   To require persons who generate mixed construction and demolition
debris (C&D debris) from a project involving the construction, remodeling or
demolition of a building or structure 1,000 square feet or greater, in an
unincorporated area of Chatham County, and requires a Chatham County building
or demolition permit, to provide for the transportation of such debris off site
to a licensed C&D facility that is able to process and divert from a landfill
at least 30% of C&D debris annually; and
   (B)   To require persons with C&D sites subject to this chapter to maintain
records of all C&D debris disposed (disposal records) for a period of one year
after project completion, for the purpose of inspection by the Chatham County
Solid Waste and Recycling Division.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL PERMITTING. The Chatham County Central Permitting Department.
   CLEAN WOOD WASTE. Wood waste from construction and demolition activity that
has not been treated and is free of paint.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS (C&D DEBRIS). Building materials and
solid waste generated from construction, demolition, and remodeling activities,
including, but not limited to, clean wood waste, treated wood waste, fully
cured asphalt, inert debris, lumber, gypsum wallboard, corrugated cardboard and
other associated packaging, roofing material, ceramic tile, carpeting,
fixtures, plastic pipe, and scrap metal.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION SITE (C&D SITE). A lot or parcel on which a
building or structure 1,000 square feet or greater, in an unincorporated area
of Chatham County (as specified on the Chatham County building or demolition
permit) is being constructed, demolished, removed, remodeled, repaired,
improved, deconstructed, or otherwise altered or changed. A C&D SITE does not
include a lot or parcel on which any of the foregoing activities have or are
taking place due to fire damage, installation of prefabricated structures, or
swimming pool installation.
   CORRUGATED CARDBOARD. Three-layered cardboard material with a middle, wavy
layer.
   COUNTY MANAGER. The County Manager of Chatham County or his or her designee.
   DISPOSAL RECORDS. Receipts, weight tickets, or other documentation from
facilities accepting mixed or source-separated C&D debris, and includes C&D
site address or building permit number, type of material, weight of material,
date of disposal, facility name, and facility location.
   INERT DEBRIS. Solid waste which consists solely of material that is
virtually inert, such as brick, concrete, rock and clean soil.
   LICENSED CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION FACILITY (LICENSED C&D FACILITY). A
solid waste facility licensed under this chapter that accepts mixed
construction and demolition debris for processing and recycling, and that has
demonstrated an annual minimum recycling rate of 30% (calculation based on data
submitted to NCDENR).
   LICENSEE. Any person holding a license issued under this chapter.
   MIXED CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS (MIXED C&D DEBRIS). Construction
and demolition debris containing a mixture of materials, as opposed to
materials that have been source-separated for the purpose of reusing or
recycling.
   NCDENR. The North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company,
proprietorship, association or other legal entity.
   SCRAP METAL. Includes without limitation cast iron tubs, aluminum gutters
and siding, bedsprings, metal pipe, steel studs, tin roofing, and other items
containing significant amounts of metal.
   SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING DIVISION. The Chatham County Solid Waste and
Recycling Division of the Environmental Quality Department.
   SOURCE-SEPARATE. Separate C&D debris at the point of generation by the
generator for the purposes of reusing or recycling; (e.g. separation of items
such as clean wood, concrete, corrugated cardboard, and scrap metal into
separate bins for delivery to a facility that will reuse or recycle the
material).
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.05 JURISDICTION.
   The chapter applies to all C&D sites located in Chatham County outside the
corporate limits of municipalities.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.06 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of C&D debris from a C&D site
without complying with the provision of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 DISPOSAL OF C&D DEBRIS.
   Any person who generates C&D debris at a C&D site shall provide for the
disposal of the debris at a licensed C&D facility, or source-separate the C&D
debris at the C&D site and deliver to a facility capable of reusing or
recycling the material, or a combination of both.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 COMPLETION OF C&D DEBRIS MANAGEMENT SECTION ON PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person applying for a Chatham County building or demolition permit for a
C&D site shall complete the C&D Debris Management section of the permit
application, indicating the intended disposal method, and in the case where
mixed C&D debris will be generated, list the name of the licensed C&D facility.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.09 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Solid Waste and Recycling Division is authorized to administer the
provision of this chapter, including, without limitation, the authority to
adopt rules and regulations consistent with this chapter to govern the
operation of all licensees and to enforce the provision of this chapter by any
lawful means. Central Permitting and the Solid Waste and Recycling Division
shall cooperate in the administration of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.10 INSPECTIONS.
   In order to perform its responsibilities under this chapter, the Solid Waste
and Recycling Division shall have authority to inspect any licensed C&D
facility, any C&D site, and any disposal records for C&D debris generated at
C&D sites. The inspection shall be made at reasonable hours and with the
consent of the owner of the facility or site, or if consent is refused,
pursuant to a properly issued search warrant.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.11 ASSISTANCE AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Solid Waste and Recycling Division shall provide assistance to
persons subject to this chapter regarding compliance with the provisions
hereof.
   (B)   The Solid Waste and Recycling Division may grant a variance of a
specific requirement of this chapter if the person seeking the variance has
demonstrated that strict application of the requirement will create practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships not generally applicable to other persons
in similar circumstances. The Solid Waste and Recycling Division shall specify
in writing the basis for any variance granted under this division.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.12 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful tor any person to:
   (A)   Dispose of mixed C&D debris from C&D sites at any facility that is not
licensed under this chapter; or
   (B)   Dispose of C&D debris through open burning.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person desiring to accept mixed C&D debris from C&D sites in
Chatham County shall apply to the Solid Waste and Recycling Division for a C&D
facility license. All applications shall be submitted on a form provided by the
Solid Waste and Recycling Division and in the name of the person who owns or
operates the facility.
   (B)   The Solid Waste and Recycling Division shall act to approve or deny a
completed application for a license under this chapter as soon as reasonably
possible and in any event shall approve or deny the license within 30 business
days from the date that a completed application was accepted for processing. No
application shall be processed unless it is complete. Any person whose
application is denied shall have the same due process rights provided under §
110.15 to a person whose license has been revoked or suspended.
   (C)   The terms of all licenses issued under the chapter shall be valid
until August 31 of each year, and may be renewed each September for a period of
12 months, if approved. All licenses shall be issued for a specific location
and/or person and shall be nontransferable without the written approval of the
Solid Waste and Recycling Division. Application for renewal shall be made in a
timely manner prior to the expiration date. The Solid Waste and Recycling
Division shall act to approve or deny a completed application for renewal
within 30 business days from receipt, and any person whose license is not
renewed shall have the same due process rights provided under §
110.15 to a person whose license has been revoked or suspended.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF A LICENSE.
   Any license issued under this chapter may be revoked or suspended after
notice and a hearing, where it appears to the Solid Waste and Recycling
Division that the licensee has provided false information on an application or
any report provided hereunder, does not have required permits or licenses, or
has violated any of the provisions of this chapter, or where any employee of
the licensee is engaged in any conduct which violates this chapter or any other
law or ordinance relating to the transportation or disposal of C&D debris and
of which the licensee has actual or constructive knowledge, or in the exercise
of reasonable diligence should have had actual or constructive knowledge.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.15 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Upon the determination of a violation of this chapter or the existence
of any other condition which is grounds for revocation or suspension of a
license issued pursuant to this chapter, the Solid Waste and Recycling Division
shall serve written notice upon the person whose license has been determined to
be subject to revocation or suspension.
   (B)   The notice shall state:
      (1)   The specific grounds which make the license subject to revocation
or suspension;
      (2)   The date, time, and place of the hearing, which shall not be
earlier than seven days nor later than 15 days following service of the notice;
and
      (3)   That the hearing will be held before the County Manager.
   (C)   The County Manager shall conduct the hearing and within seven days
shall render his or her decision in writing either revoking the license,
suspending the license for a period of time not to exceed 90 days, or finding
that insufficient grounds for revocation or suspension exist and that the
person should
retain his or her license. In the case of a revocation or suspension, the
decision shall state the reasons for the action taken.
   (D)   The decision of the County Manager shall be subject to review in the
Superior Court of Chatham County by proceedings in the nature of certiorari.
Any petition for writ of certiorari for review shall be filed with the Clerk of
Superior Court within 30 days after notice of the decision has been received by
the licensee.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.16 REPORTS.
   (A)   All owners or operators of licensed C&D facilities shall submit a copy
of the NCDENR annual report to the Solid Waste and Recycling Division. The
annual reports shall be submitted to the Solid Waste and Recycling Division
with the annual license renewal application. The report shall include the total
amount of C&D material received from Chatham County and the total quantity of
all materials recovered for recycling.
   (B)   All persons generating C&D debris from C&D sites shall maintain
disposal records for up to one year after project completion, and be prepared
to provide these records if an inspection has been requested by the Solid Waste
and Recycling Division.
   (C)   The Solid Waste and Recycling Division and Central Permitting
Department shall provide an annual report on the impact of this chapter to the
County Manager’s office and any interested citizens’ advisory committees. This
report will include total amount of C&D debris generated in Chatham County,
total number of enforcement actions, an explanation of any variances granted,
and any recommended changes.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject
to a fine not to exceed $500, or imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or
both. Each violation is a separate and distinct offense, and each day of
continued violation shall be considered a separate offense. The suspension or
revocation of a license shall not prohibit the imposition of a criminal penalty
or the assessment of a civil penalty and the imposition of a criminal penalty
or the assessment of a civil penalty shall not prevent the suspension or
revocation of a license.
   (B)   Civil penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $500 as provided herein to be
recovered in a civil action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay
the penalty within ten days after being cited for a violation. Each violation
is a separate and distinct offense, and each day of continued violation shall
be considered a separate offense. The suspension or revocation of a license
shall not prohibit the imposition of a criminal penalty or the assessment of a
civil penalty and the imposition of a criminal penalty or the assessment of a
civil penalty shall not prevent the suspension or revocation of a license.
   (C)   The Solid Waste and Recycling Division may issue any person who
violates this chapter a citation giving notice of the violation(s) and the
amount of the civil penalty imposed. Citations so issued shall be delivered or
mailed by first class mail to the person violating this chapter. Delivery of
the citation by first class mail shall be the method of delivery if the person
violating the chapter cannot readily be served in person.
   (D)   The following civil penalties shall be assessed for each violation of
this chapter:
 
Number of Prior Violations Amount
0                          $50
1                          $100
2                          $200
3                          $300
4                          $400
5 or more                  $500
 
   (E)   Equitable remedies. In addition to the criminal and civil penalties
provided for above, this chapter may be enforced by any of the equitable
remedies provided for in G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2011)
CHAPTER 111: JUNK YARD CONTROL
Section
   
111.01   Intent
   
111.02   Title
   
111.03   Geographic coverage
   
111.04   Definitions
   
111.05   Exemptions of chapter
   
111.06   Procedures; registration and permitting
   
111.07   General standards
   
111.08   Maintenance
   
111.09   Enforcement provisions
   
111.10   Relief; variance; decision
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 INTENT.
   The purpose and objectives for which this chapter is adopted and enacted are
as follows:
   (A)   To promote the public health, safety and general welfare;
   (B)   To preserve the natural scenic beauty of areas in the vicinity of the
state maintained public roads; and
   (C)   To protect the public from health nuisances and safety hazards by
controlling vectors, concentrations or volatile or poisonous materials, and
sources of danger to children.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992)
§ 111.02 TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the Junk Yard Control
Chapter of Chatham County, North Carolina and/or the Chatham County Junk Yard
Chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992)
§ 111.03 GEOGRAPHIC COVERAGE.
   These regulations shall be in effect in all unincorporated portions of the
county which are not under the jurisdiction of any municipal zoning ordinance.
Any incorporated municipality may adopt this chapter by reference and make the
same applicable to all areas within its respective zoning jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992)
§ 111.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMOBILE GRAVEYARD. Any tract of land, establishment or place of business
and which is maintained, used or operated for storing, keeping, buying or
selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle
parts for profit and shall include any tract of land, establishment or place of
business upon which more than six motor vehicles which cannot be operated under
their own power, and not being restored to operable condition, and which are
kept or stored for profit for a period of 90 days or more.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The County Manager or his or her designee.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any place, land, building or structure on which or in which
there is operated or maintained a business or going concern.
   FARM. Singularly or jointly owned land parcel or contiguous parcels on which
agricultural operations are conducted as the primary use. Agricultural
operations include, but are not limited to, cultivation or crops, the husbandry
of livestock and forestry.
   GARAGE. Any establishment or place of business which is maintained and
operated for the primary purpose of making mechanical and/or body repairs to
motor vehicles, and which may store as many as six motor vehicles that are not
capable of being driven under their own power and are not being restored to
operable condition, regardless of the length of time that individual motor
vehicles are stored or kept at the property. If the GARAGE is listed as a
business in the Tax Assessor's Office by January 31 of each year and consists
of two acres, six additional motor vehicles as described herein may be allowed.
   HEALTH OR SAFETY NUISANCE. A motor vehicle, used machinery, or other used
materials may be declared a health nuisance or safety hazard when it is found
to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes or other insects,
snakes, rats or other pests;
      (2)   A point of collection for pools or ponds of water;
      (3)   An unsafe concentration of gasoline, oil or other flammable or
explosive materials;
      (4)   So located that there is a danger of the vehicle falling or turning
over without assistance;
      (5)   A source of danger for children through entrapment in areas of
confinement that cannot be opened from the inside; the overturning of heavy
items; or
      (6)   An unsafe concentration of car radiators, batteries or other
materials that pose either a hazard of immediate or long-term environmental
degradation.
   JUNK. Old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, refrigerators, stoves, household, appliances, salvaged building
materials, salvaged machinery parts, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or
parts thereof, iron and steel and other scrap ferrous or non-ferrous material.
   JUNK YARD. Any establishment, place of business or place which is
maintained, operated or used for storing, keeping, buying or selling junk, or
for maintenance or operation of an automobile graveyard. An establishment or
place of business which stores or keeps, for a period of 90 days or more,
materials within the meaning of "junk" as defined in this section which had
been derived or created as a result of industrial or commercial activity shall
be deemed to be a junk yard within the meaning of this chapter. A JUNK YARD
shall be presumed to have been created when an area of 600 square feet or more
of "junk materials' are kept or stored at any given place whether for profit or
not. Materials enclosed in closed buildings, solid waste containers or rolling
stock (i.e., rail cars, trailer or other containerized body not intended or
designed to be self propelled) are excluded.
   JUNK YARD CONTROL ACT. G.S. §§ 136-141 through 155 (Article 12) which
delegate to the State Department of Transportation the responsibility to
regulate "junk yards" and "automobile graveyards" located on interstate and
federal-aid primary system highways.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that does not display a current license
plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old an appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle or machine designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion.
   NEW JUNK YARD. Junk yards established after the effective date of this
chapter or existing junk yards which do not register within the specified time
limit in order to meet the designation of pre-existing.
   OPAQUE. A substance that cannot be seen through when viewed perpendicularly
at the same elevation.
   ORDINANCE ADMINISTRATOR. The County Manager or his or her designee.
   PRE-EXISTING JUNK YARD. Junk yards in existence at the time of effective
date of this chapter which register within the specified time.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road or highway which is now or hereafter designated and
maintained by the State Department of Transportation as part of the state
highway system.
   RECYCLING CENTER. A temporary or permanent site at which glass, aluminum
cans, paper, plastic, clothes or similar materials commonly collected for
recycling are collected and moved off site or kept on site in buildings,
storage bins, solid waste containers, truck trailers and other rolling stock.
   RESIDENCE. A house, an apartment, a group of homes or a single room occupied
or intended for occupancy as separate living quarters for one or more humans.
   SCHOOL. Any public or private institution for the teaching of children under
18 years of age which is recognized and approved by the State Board of
Education or other appropriate licensing boards.
   SERVICE STATION. Any establishment which is maintained and operated for the
purpose of making retail sales of fuels, lubricants, air, water and other items
for the operation and routine maintenance of motor vehicles, and/or for making
mechanical repairs, servicing and/or washing of motor vehicles and which is
used to store not more than six motor vehicles that are not capable of being
driven under their own power and are not being restored to operable conditions
regardless of the length of time that individual motor vehicles are stored, or
kept at the property. If the SERVICE STATION is listed as a business in the Tax
Assessor's Office by January 31 of each year and consists of two acres, six
additional motor vehicles as described herein may be allowed.
   VEGETATION. All season or evergreen VEGETATION shall mean evergreen trees
with leaves or foliage at all seasons of the year and shall include, but not be
limited to, white pine, southern pine, hemlock and spruce trees.
   UNZONED AREA. An area where there is no zoning in effect.
   VECTORS. An organism that carries disease-causing micro-organisms from one
host to another (e.g., rats, mosquitoes and the like).
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen without visual aid by a person of normal
visual acuity.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992; Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 111.05 EXEMPTIONS OF CHAPTER.
   The following uses and activities are exempted:
   (A)   Bona fide service stations or garages as defined by this chapter are
exempted;
   (B)   All bona fide farms and farm related uses;
   (C)   Recycling centers using enclosed structures or solid waste containers,
bins, truck trailers and rolling stock to store materials and equipment; and
   (D)   Salvage material or junk cars in enclosed buildings.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992; Ord. passed 3-8-1993)
§ 111.06 PROCEDURES; REGISTRATION AND PERMITTING.
   (A)   Registration time period.
      (1)   All owners, operators or maintainers of automobile graveyards or
other junk yards existing at the effective date of this chapter shall register
same with the county within a period of 30 days from the effective date of this
chapter.
      (2)   All existing automobile graveyards or junk yards that have not been
registered within 30 days shall be in violation of the registration provisions
of this chapter.
      (3)   Unless the junk yards can be documented to the satisfaction of the
Ordinance Administrator as existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter, they shall be considered new junk yards.
      (4)   If so documented, the junk yards may be considered existing junk
yards, be required to register and required to comply to a revised compliance
schedule listed in division (G) below.
   (B)   Registration application.
      (1)   Registration shall be accomplished by completing a registration
application and paying a fee as established by the Board of County
Commissioners. The Ordinance Administrator shall provide the necessary forms
for the registration application.
      (2)   The registration application shall include, but not be limited to,
the following information: land owner's and junk yard operator's name, address
and phone numbers for business and home; state and/or local business
registration number or licenses; the location of the property by township,
state road number and property identification number; the total acreage of the
property and approximate acreage involved in the junk yard operation. One copy
of the completed signed registration application shall be submitted to the
Ordinance Administrator.
   (C)   Time period for permit of registered junk yards. All existing junk
yards at the effective date of this chapter, registered in accordance with
division (B) above, shall be granted a period of 90 days from the effective
date of registration to receive a permit. Thereafter, same shall be in
violation of the permitting provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Permit required for junk yards. No person, firm or business entity
shall establish, operate or maintain a junk yard without obtaining a permit
except existing junk yards specified in division (C) above. Any expansion of a
junk yard, whether pre-existing or newly permitted, shall require a permit. The
permit shall only be issued upon the persons, firm or business entity seeking
the permit submitting a statement that the existing or proposed junk yard does
not violate any of the provisions of this chapter. The permit shall be valid
unless revoked for nonconformance with this chapter.
   (E)   Permit application.
      (1)   Application for the permit shall be made to the Administrator of
the chapter, on forms as the Administrator of the chapter shall prescribe along
with a non-refundable permit fee as established by the Board of County
Commissioners.
      (2)   The permit application shall include, but not be limited to, the
information required for the registration application and a junk yard plan.
      (3)   The plan shall indicate setbacks, location of public rights-of-way,
all proposed structures, all structures within 500 feet of junk yard,
driveways, entrances, fencing, screening, types of fencing, types of screening,
dimensions of junk yard, gross acreage, preparer of plans name(s) and address
(es) and phone numbers.
      (4)   Plans shall be at a scale no larger than one inch equals 400 feet.
Three copies shall be submitted.
      (5)   Any expansion of a junk yard, whether pre-existing or newly
permitted, shall require a permit. Procedures and standards for an expansion
permit shall be those required for a new establishment.
   (F)   Permitting procedure. The completed permit application and junk yard
plan shall be submitted to the Ordinance Administrator. The Administrator shall
have the authority to either approve or deny the permit. A denied permit may be
resubmitted within 14 days from the date of denial without incurring an
additional permit fee.
   (G)   Permitting compliance.
      (1)   Existing junk yards shall conform to the approved permit and
standards of this chapter in accordance with the graduated compliance schedule
listed as follows, the times listed are from the date of plan approval:
         (a)   Meet §
111.07(B)(6) within one month;
         (b)   Meet §
111.07(B)(7) within two months;
         (c)   Meet §
111.07(B)(5) within three months;
         (d)   Meet §
111.07(B)(8) within 36 months;
         (e)   Meet §
111.07(B)(9) within 36 months; and
         (f)   Meet §
111.07(B)(4) within 36 months.
      (2)   Junk yards discovered after the registration time period of
division (A) above, but documented to the satisfaction of the Ordinance
Administrator as being in existence prior to this chapter, shall conform to
applicable portions of this chapter. The time period of compliance shall run
from the date of discovery. Divisions (G)(1)(a) through (c) above shall have
the time period listed but divisions (G)(1)(d), (e) and (f) shall have a time
period of 12 months.
      (3)   New junk yards shall conform to the approved permit and standards
of this chapter prior to the establishment of the use as a junk yard on the
property. Failure to meet the requirements of the approved permit and standards
of this chapter shall be a violation of the compliance provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992; Ord. passed 3-8-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Junk yards in existence on the effective date of this chapter shall conform
to the requirements of this chapter as applicable.
   (A)   Pre-existing junk yards. Pre-existing junk yards shall meet the
requirements specified in divisions (B)(4) through (10) below.
   (B)   New junk yards. The following criteria shall be applicable to new junk
yards. All junk yards which are established from and after the effective date
of this chapter, shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   Not be located closer than 500 feet to a pre-existing church,
school, day care center, nursing home, skilled health care facility, hospital,
public buildings, public recreation facilities or residence (excluding
residence of the owner or his or her agent);
      (2)   Be situated on a parcel of at least four acres excluding rights-of-
way that is undivided by public road right-of-way or public dedication;
      (3)   The driveway or entrance roadway may not be located closer than 30
feet from any side property line;
      (4)   Have a minimum setback to any required fence and/or vegetative
screening from the front, side and rear property lines excluding road right-of-
way of at least one foot, and at least 20 feet from the main traveled portion
of a public state maintained street or highway; unless greater screening is
provided by the fence or vegetation being closer to the travel way and the
Department of Transportation allows or recommends the location of the
screening;
      (5)   All buildings, (excluding existing buildings and equipment and
operations therein) equipment, operation, (except roads) and junk shall not be
situated within 50 feet of an intermittent or continuously flowing stream as
designated on the most recent United States Geological Survey maps. Same shall
not be closer than 100 feet to the bank of a river or an intermittent or
continuously flowing stream that is located within one-half mile of a river;
      (6)   All buildings, (except existing building and equipment and
operations therein) equipment, operations (except roads) and junk shall not be
situated within ten feet of the front property lines excluding road rights-of-
way and at least 30 feet from the main traveled portion of the public state
maintained road or highway;
      (7)   All buildings, (except existing building and equipment and
operations therein) equipment, operations (except roads) and junk shall not be
situated within ten feet of the front, side and rear property lines;
      (8)   Fence a minimum of four feet in height by either a woven or welded
wire (14-gauge minimum) fence or chain link fence if within 500 feet of an
occupied structure (excluding a residence occupied by the junk yard owner and/
or operator). The fence shall be situated between the junk yard and the
occupied structure. The fence shall extend a minimum of 500 feet along the
boundary of the junk yard. The distance from the occupied structure to the
farthest point of the fence shall not be less than 500 feet unless the junk
yard is completely enclosed by the fencing. When fencing is required there
shall be screening according to division (B)(9) below. Screening is not
required when natural vegetation is a depth of 150 feet and a minimum of six
feet in height between the junk yard and the occupied structure. Fencing
requirements shall not apply if a residence or occupied structure is
constructed on land purchased after the junk yard is registered or permitted,
if not otherwise applicable;
      (9)   (a)   Property that is visible from the public state maintained
road shall provide an opaque fence along the road side of the property or
install vegetation that provides a continuous all season opaque screen at least
six feet in height within four years of planting or setting the vegetation.
Vegetation not less than two feet in height at the time of planting shall be
planted. Screening is not required when natural vegetation is a depth of 150
feet and a minimum of six feet in height between the junk yard and the occupied
structure. Additional screening may not be required along the road when natural
vegetation exists that provides an all season opaque screening. If natural
vegetation is reduced below the depth or effectiveness specified the property
shall be required to be screened according to this chapter. This does not
exempt the property from being fenced as specified in division (B)(8) above.
Screening requirements shall not apply if the residence or occupied structure
is constructed on land purchased after the junk yard is registered permitted,
if not otherwise applicable.
         (b)   Where due to distance, topography or other site considerations
the Enforcement Officer determines from field investigation that the height
screening required would not screen the junk yard, the screening may not be
required along the applicable property lines.
         (c)   Vegetation that serves as screening shall be planted at
intervals evenly spaced and in close proximity to each other so that a
continuous, unbroken hedgerow (without gaps or open spaces) will exist to a
height of at least six feet along the length of the fence surrounding the junk
yard or automobile graveyard, the vegetation shall be maintained as a
continuous, unbroken hedgerow for the period the property is used as a junk
yard.
         (d)   Each owner, operator or maintainer or a junk yard shall utilize
good husbandry techniques, such as pruning, mulching and proper fertilization,
so that the vegetation will have maximum density and foliage. Dead or diseased
vegetation shall be replaced at the next appropriate planting time.
      (10)   All junk and/or inoperable motor vehicles shall be kept within the
confines of the fence and vegetative screening at all times unless in motion by
transport to or from the site; and
      (11)   On-site traffic areas shall be provided and arranged in a manner
to provide adequate areas to prevent backward movement onto the state
maintained road.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992; Ord. passed 3-8-1993) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All junk yards shall be maintained to protect the public from health
nuisances and safety hazards.
   (B)   The County Health Department may inspect each junk yard to determine
that no vectors are present. Should vectors be identified, the owner/operator/
maintainer shall submit satisfactory evidence to the Health Department and
Planning Department that vectors have been eliminated.
   (C)   Failure to comply with this section may result in revocation of permit
as well as other penalties and remedies for violation as provided for in §
111.09 below.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The County Manager or his or her designee shall enforce this chapter.
He or she may call upon other agencies as necessary to assist in enforcement of
this chapter.
   (B)   In addition, whenever the County Manager or his or her designee
receives a complaint alleging a violation of this chapter, he or she shall
investigate the complaint, take whatever action is warranted, and inform the
complainant what actions have been or will be taken.
   (C)   The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land or any part
thereof and agent or other person who participate in, assists, directs, creates
or maintains any situation that is contrary to the requirements of this chapter
may be held responsible for the violation and suffer the penalties and be
subject to the remedies herein provided.
   (D)   The following procedure shall apply upon discovery of a violation.
      (1)   If the Administrator finds that any provisions of this chapter is
being violated, he or she shall send a written notice to the person responsible
for the violation, indicating the nature of the violation, ordering the action
necessary to correct it, and advising the violator of the number of days or
months within which the violation shall be corrected. If applicable, the
violator shall be informed of his or her right to appeal to the Board of
Adjustment.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in cases when delay would seriously
threaten the effective enforcement of this chapter or pose a danger to the
public health, safety or welfare, the Administrator may seek enforcement
without prior written notice by invoking any of the penalties or remedies
authorized in this section.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992)
§ 111.10 RELIEF; VARIANCE; DECISION.
   (A)   Relief. Unless otherwise listed, appeals from the specific provisions
of this chapter and appeals from any ruling of the Ordinance Administrator
shall be submitted to the County Board of Adjustment within ten days of receipt
of adverse action or ruling.
   (B)   Variance.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may authorize upon appeal in specific cases
the variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the
public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter will, in an individual case, result in practical
difficulty or extreme hardship, and so that the spirit of this chapter shall be
observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done, the
variance may be granted in the individual case of extreme hardship upon a
finding by the Board of Adjustment that the following conditions exist:
         (a)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular place or property in question because of its size, shape or
topography that are not applicable to other automobile graveyards and junk
yards governed by this chapter;
         (b)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the
applicant any special privileges that are denied to other operators of other
automobile graveyards and junk yards governed by this chapter;
         (c)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other operators of
automobile graveyards or junk yards governed by this chapter;
         (d)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare;
         (e)   The special circumstances are not the result of the action of
the applicant; and/or
         (f)   The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the legal use of the land in question.
      (2)   In granting a variance the Board of Adjustment shall make findings
that the requirements of this section have been met. The Board of Adjustment
shall make a finding, and written notice of the decision shall be prepared and
furnished to the applicant. In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment
may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards in conformity with this
chapter. Violations of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter.
   (C)   Decision.
      (1)   Decision of the Board of Adjustment may be appealed. The petition
for the writ of certiorari must be filed with the County Clerk of Superior
Court within 30 days after the later of the following occurrences:
         (a)   A written copy of the Board of Adjustment's decision has been
filed in the Office of the County Planning Department; and
         (b)   A written copy of the Board of Adjustment's decision has been
delivered, by personal service or certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the applicant or appellant and every other aggrieved party who has filed a
written request for the copy at the hearing of the case.
      (2)   A copy of the petition writ of certiorari shall be served upon the
county through the Office of the County Manager.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Penalties and remedies for violations shall be as follows.
   (A)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine or imprisonment, not to exceed 30 days, as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or a failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty of
$50 per day for the first violation. If the same violation occurs on the same
property within six years after the initial violation is remedied, a civil
penalty in the amount of $100 per day shall automatically apply. If the same
violation occurs on the same property within six years after the second
occurrence of the violation is remedied, a civil penalty in the amount of $200
per day shall automatically apply. If the same violation occurs on the same
property within six years after the third or any subsequent occurrence of the
violation is remedied, a civil penalty in the amount of $500 per day shall
automatically apply. For the purposes of assessing civil penalties each day the
violation continues shall be considered a separate and distinct offense. If the
offender fails to pay this penalty within ten days after being cited for a
violation, the penalty may be recovered by the county in a civil action in the
nature of debt.
   (C)   This chapter may also be enforced by any appropriate equitable action.
The remedy may include court order of abatement as part of a judgment in the
cause. The abatement order may include removal of junk from illegal junk yards
and other actions required to make the property comply with the provisions of
this chapter at the owner's expense.
   (D)   Each day that any violation continues after final notification by the
Administrator that the violation exists may be considered a separate offense
for purposes of the penalties and remedies specified in this section.
   (E)   Any one, all or any combination of the foregoing penalties and
remedies may be used to enforce this chapter. In addition to the foregoing
enforcement provisions, this chapter may be enforced by any remedy provided in
G.S. § 153A-123, including, but not limited to, all appropriate equitable
remedies provided in G.S. § 153A-123(d) and particularly the remedy of
injunction and order of abatement as allowed in G.S. § 153A-123(e).
   (F)   Any building permit(s) associated with the property that has the junk
yard permit may be revoked by the permit issuing authority (in accordance with
the provisions of this section) if the permit recipient fails to develop or
maintain the property in accordance with the plans submitted, the requirements
of this chapter, or any additional requirements lawfully imposed by the County
Board of Commissioners. Before the permit(s) may be revoked, the permit
recipient shall be given ten days' written notice of intent to revoke any
relevant permit. The notice shall inform the recipient of the alleged reasons
for the revocation and of his or her right to obtain an informal hearing on the
allegations before the County Manager. If any relevant permit is revoked, the
Ordinance Administrator shall provide to the permittee a written statement of
the decision and the reasons therefor.
(Ord. passed 3-9-1992; Ord. passed 3-8-1993; Ord. passed 3-19-2007)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Application fee and bond
   
112.04   Franchise required
   
112.05   Term of franchise
   
112.06   Termination and expiration of franchise
   
112.07   Transfer or assignment of cable telecommunications system
   
112.08   Franchise and other fees
   
112.09   Limitations of franchise
   
112.10   Additional county rights in franchise
Specific Provisions
   
112.25   Service area
   
112.26   Emergency alert override system
   
112.27   Interconnection
   
112.28   Public, educational and governmental access
   
112.29   Channels, new developments and access utilization
   
112.30   Rights of individuals
   
112.31   Unlawful connections and theft of service
   
112.32   Liability and indemnification
   
112.33   Filing and communications with regulatory agencies
   
112.34   Miscellaneous provisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The county intends, through this chapter, to foster the development
and continued operation of cable television and telecommunications systems
within its jurisdiction. This chapter will contribute significantly to meeting
the communications needs and desires of residents, and institutions of the
county.
   (B)   It will foster economic growth through the encouragement and
development of a telecommunications infrastructure and will position the county
to meet the demands of industry in an ever changing world of technological
advancements.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The words
SHALL and MUST always are mandatory and not merely directory.
   ACCESS. Any programming or channel designated for use by any person other
than the company.
   ACCESS FACILITIES. Any channel capacity, facilities or equipment designated
for public educational, or governmental use and facilities and equipment for
the use of the channel capacity.
   BASIC SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the retransmission of local
television broadcast signals and any public educational and governmental
programming required to be carried on the basic tier.
   BOARD or BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The Board of Commissioners of Chatham
County, North Carolina, or its designee.
   CABLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS. Cable television and telecommunications.
   CABLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The provision of improved television
reception or telecommunications intelligence or entertainment service or any
lawful telecommunications services, to the public for distributing the same by
wire or fiber optic cable or other means.
   CABLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM. A system of antennas, cable, fiber optics,
wires, lines, towers, wave guides or other conductors, converters, equipment or
facilities, designated and constructed for the purpose of producing,
originating, amplifying and distributing any type of lawful telecommunications
service including, but not limited to, audio, video and other forms of
electronic, digital or electronic signals.
   CHANNEL. A seven-MHZ band or frequencies in the electromagnet spectrum (or
any other means of transmission, including, but not limited to, optical fibers,
which is capable of carrying the equivalent signal or signals), and includes
uses of all or any portion of the band of frequencies.
   CONSTRUCTION COMPLETION DATE. The date, after receiving a request from
franchisee, on which the county or its designee issues a certificate of
completion to a franchisee. That certificate shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
   COUNTY or CHATHAM COUNTY. The County of Chatham or the area within the
present territorial county limits of the county and the territory outside of
the county over which the county has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
law.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or any successor agency.
   FRANCHISE. Includes any authorization granted pursuant to federal and state
law and this chapter in terms of a franchise privilege, permit, license or
otherwise to construct, or have constructed, operate and maintain a cable
telecommunications system. Any authorization, in whatever term granted, and the
fees charged thereunder shall neither supersede nor take the place of any
license, license fee or permit authorization which might otherwise be required
for the privilege of transacting and carrying on cable telecommunications
service under any other county ordinance licensing or regulating business
within those areas.
   FULL CABLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. All cable telecommunications
services.
   GRANTEE or FRANCHISEE or COMPANY. The person, firm or corporation to whom a
franchise, as herein defined, is granted by the County Board of Commissioners
under this chapter, and the lawful successor, transferee or assignee of the
person, firm or corporation.
   GROSS REVENUES. Any and all compensation received by grantee (or any firm in
which grantee has part ownership) as a result of the exercise of a franchise
granted pursuant to this chapter, excluding any franchise fees, privilege or
use taxes, equipment deposits, bad debts, local access fees, sales, excise or
other taxes collected on behalf of any state, city or other governmental unit,
and refunds to subscribers by grantee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, revenues
received by grantee for the provision of data transmission, point to point
telecommunications, telephone or telephone services shall be included in GROSS
REVENUES on to the extent permitted by law. GROSS REVENUES include by way of
illustration, but are not limited to, regular subscriber service fees,
installation fees, disconnect and reconnect fees, pay TV, leased channel
revenues, advertising revenues, converter and remote control rental revenues,
or any other receipts.
   INITIAL SERVICE AREA. The geographical area within the county as set forth
in a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind.
   SERVICE PACKAGE or TIER OF SERVICE. One or more communications channels or
services which are offered as a unit by the grantee to subscribers and for
which a separately identifiable rate or charge is made.
   STREET. The surface of an the space above and below and publicly owned or
maintained property or right-of-way, street, road, highway, freeway, land,
path, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway or drive, now or hereafter existing as
such within the county.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person or entity lawfully receiving any portion of the cable
telecommunications service provided by a grantee pursuant to a franchise
granted in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.03 APPLICATION FEE AND BOND.
   (A)   Applicants for a franchise hereunder shall pay a non-refundable
application fee to the county of $3,000 which sum shall be due and payable to
the county) upon submission to the county of an application for a franchise.
The County Board may waive the fee for an incumbent operator seeking a
franchise renewal pursuant to the informal rules provided in § 626 of the Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, being 47 U.S.C. 521 et seq.
   (B)   The County Board shall review all the applicant's legal, character,
financial, technical and other qualifications, and the adequacy and feasibility
of its construction arrangements and its compliance with the terms of this
chapter. If the County Board finds the application is in compliance with this
chapter and is satisfied with the ability of the applicant to perform and is
satisfied with the legal, character, financial and technical qualifications and
construction arrangements, the county shall grant the applicant a franchise.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.04 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No person may operate a cable telecommunications system in the county
without first obtaining a franchise as provided in this chapter. Any franchise
granted shall be nonexclusive. Grantor specifically reserves the right to grant
additional franchises as it deems appropriate subject to applicable state and
federal law.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.05 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   The duration of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall not be
more than 20 years from the effective date.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.06 TERMINATION AND EXPIRATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county reserves the right to terminate, at any time, any franchise
granted hereunder and rescind all rights and privileges associated therewith in
the event that:
      (1)   Grantee has not complied in some material respect with any
provision of this chapter or of any supplemental written agreement entered into
by and between the county and the grantee; or in some material respect of any
terms or conditions of any franchise or permit issued hereunder;
      (2)   Grantee has made a material, false statement in the application for
the franchise, knowing it to be false;
      (3)   Grantee, contrary to the best interest of public convenience and
welfare, is not providing subscribers with regular, adequate and proper
service; consistent with the terms of any franchise granted hereunder;
      (4)   Grantee becomes insolvent, enters into receivership or liquidation,
files for bankruptcy or for composition of creditors, is unable or unwilling to
pay his or her debts as they mature or is in financial difficulty of sufficient
consequence so as to jeopardize the continued operation of the cable
telecommunications system unless the grantee is in due process of contesting
the debts; or
      (5)   Grantee violates any FCC order or ruling or the order or ruling of
any other governmental body having jurisdiction over the grantee unless the
grantee is lawfully contesting the legality of applicability of the order.
   (B)   In the event that the county shall decide to terminate for cause a
franchise granted hereunder, it shall give the grantee 60 days' written notice
of its intention to terminate and stipulate the cause. If during the 60-day
period, the cause shall be cured to the satisfaction of the county, the county
shall declare the notice to be null and void. In any event, before a franchise
may be terminated the grantee must be provided with an opportunity to be heard
before the County Board in accordance with due process procedures. If a
grantee's franchise is terminated, the decision shall be subject to judicial
review as provided by law.
   (C)   In the event that operation of the cable telecommunications system is
discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of 30 days or the franchise
held by a grantee to construct, operate or maintain a cable telecommunications
system is terminated by the County Board, pursuant to the terms of this
chapter, and all negotiations to settle the differences between the parties
have failed (provided, however, that the negotiations shall not be required),
the County Board may advertise and seek another to operate the system. If a
franchise is granted to another person, the terminated franchisee may be
required to sell the cable telecommunications system to the new franchisee at a
price to be determined by three competent, independent appraisers, one each
appointed by the terminated franchisee, the new franchisee, and the County
Board. The appraisers to be appointed shall use the then-best methods of
appraising to determine this value. The cost of the appraisers shall be shared
equally by the terminated franchisee and the new franchisee. The terminated
franchisee shall execute the deeds, bills of sale and other documents as may be
necessary to effectuate this sale. The terminated franchisee shall fully
cooperate with these appraisers.
   (D)   In the even of the early termination of the franchise as herein
provided, the county shall have the option to purchase the cable business for
the fair market value of the capital improvements. The county may also require
the grantee to sell any capital improvements as provided in this section to any
successor grantee as set forth in division (C) above. In any event, the county
may require the grantee to continue to provide service for a reasonable period
not to exceed six months in order to assure uninterrupted service to
subscribers.
   (E)   The county shall give to franchisee notice of its intent to exercise
the option to purchase at least 180 days prior to the expiration of the term of
this franchise and/or the renewals thereof as are authorized. If the franchise
is terminated or expires, notice of intent to exercise the option to purchase
shall be contained in the notice of intention to terminate.
   (F)   Should the grantee's franchise be terminated or expire, and not
purchased as above provided, and at times as the successor is ready to provide
service, but no later than six months from termination or expiration, the
grantee shall begin removal of all property owned by it, and placed on a public
or private right-of-way unless permitted by the county to abandon the property
in place. In so removing the plants, structures and equipment, the grantee
shall refill, at its own expense, any excavation made by it and shall leave the
public and private places in as good condition as that prevailing prior to the
company's installation of its equipment and appliances without affecting,
altering or disturbing in any way the electric distribution or telephone cable,
wire or attachments or any poles. The County Board or other officer or his or
her appointee, shall inspect and approve the condition of the public ways and
public places and cables, wire attachments and poles after removal. Liability
insurance and indemnity provided for herein shall continue in full force and
effect during the entire period of removal.
   (G)   In the event of any such removal, the grantee shall restore the public
right-of-way to a condition satisfactory to the county. Upon abandonment, which
shall only be done as the county directs, the grantee shall transfer ownership
of all the abandoned property to the county and submit to the county an
instrument in writing, subject to the approval of the County Attorney,
effecting the transfer.
   (H)   If the county or the state is forced to remove the system, the work
shall be done at the expense of the terminated grantee.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.07 TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF CABLE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.
   (A)   No transfer of control of a franchise or assignment of a franchise to
operate a cable telecommunications system other than a pro forma transfer or
assignment to a parent or wholly owned subsidiary corporation or other form of
organization shall take place, whether by force or voluntary sale, lease,
mortgage, assignment, encumbrance, foreclosure, attachment, merger or other
form of disposition, without prior notice to an approval by the County Board.
The notice shall include full identifying particulars of the proposed
transaction and the County Board shall act by resolution. The County Board
shall have 120 days after the receipt of the notice and all supporting
documents within which to approve or disapprove a transfer of control or
assignment of franchise; if the proposed transfer or assignment is not acted
upon within 120 days, approval shall be deemed to have been given.
   (B)   Notice of any such proposed transfer or assignment, together with
copies of all documents pertaining thereto shall be in writing filed with the
County Clerk. The proposed transferee or assignee shall agree in writing to
comply with all provisions of this chapter and other provisions and
requirements as the County Board might require.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the term CONTROL is not limited to
majority stock ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised. A rebuttal presumption that a transfer of control has
occurred shall arise upon the acquisition or accumulation by any person or
group of persons of 10% of the voting shares of the company.
   (D)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the County Board will
not approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise before completion of
initial construction of the energized system or within the first two years of
operation thereafter.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.08 FRANCHISE AND OTHER FEES.
   (A)   Within 60 days after each quarter of its fiscal year, after acceptance
of a franchise, the grantee shall pay to the county for constructing, operating
and maintaining the cable telecommunications system as defined herein, and for
the privilege of providing the cable telecommunications service as defined
herein during the ensuing fiscal year, a sum equal to 5% of its gross revenue
for its preceding quarter. The payment of this fee is in addition to any
privilege or use tax or ad valorem taxes which the county may levy. At any time
the County Board, its employees or other designated representative, shall have
the right to inspect all financial documents. Acceptance of payments hereunder
shall not be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any
claim the county may have for further or additional sums payable under this
chapter or for the performance of any other obligations hereunder. In the event
of holding over after expiration or other termination of any franchise granted
hereunder, without the consent of the county, the grantee shall pay to the
county reasonable compensation and damages, of not less than 100% of its total
gross profits during the period.
   (B)   (1)   The 5% franchise fee provided for herein shall be reviewed every
five years during the term of this franchise, and the franchise fee, at the
sole option of the County Board, shall be adjusted upward if the County Board
determines that an upward adjustment is necessary in order to maintain the
franchise fee at a level consistent with:
         (a)   Franchise fees being paid by cable telecommunications companies
operating under similar conditions;
         (b)   The costs incurred by the county in administering this
franchise;
         (c)   The value of the company's right to use county public ground,
highways, roads, streets, alleys, sidewalks, greenways, public ways and utility
easements as may be available; and
         (d)   Any applicable statutes, laws, rules and regulations.
      (2)   If the franchise fee is adjusted upward, the adjustment shall be
effective at the beginning of the next immediate full quarter of the company's
fiscal year during which the adjustment is made. The county may unilaterally
adjust the franchise fee upward only after giving notice to the company and
holding a hearing.
   (C)   The county, on an annual basis, shall be furnished a statement within
60 days of the close of the calendar year, certified by an official of the
franchisee responsible for the system's financial statements, reflecting the
total amounts of gross revenues as defined herein, and all payments, and
computations for the previous calendar year.
      (1)   Upon ten days' prior written notice, the county shall have the
right to conduct an independent audit of franchisee's records.
      (2)   If, after resolving any dispute arising from the audit, franchisee
has made a franchise fee underpayment of 5% or more, the franchisee shall
assume all reasonable costs of the audit. In other events, the county shall
bear all costs associated with the audit.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.09 LIMITATIONS OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   In addition to the limitations otherwise herein appearing, the
franchise is subject to the following limitations: franchisees shall at all
times during the life of a franchise hereunder be subject to all lawful
exercise of the police power by the county and other duly authorized regulatory
stale and federal bodies and shall comply with any and all ordinances which the
county has adopted or shall adopt applying to the public generally, and shall
be subject to all laws of the state and the United States.
   (B)   Time shall be of the essence of any franchise granted hereunder.
Franchisees shall not be relieved of their obligations to comply promptly with
a provision of this chapter by the failure of the county to enforce prompt
compliance. Failure of the county to enforce any breach by the franchisee shall
not constitute a waiver by the county.
   (C)   Any franchise hereunder shall not relieve a franchisee of any
obligations under any preexisting pole or conduit use agreements it may have
with the county, a utility company or others maintaining poles or conduits in
the streets of the county.
   (D)   Any poles, cable, electronic equipment or other appurtenances of a
franchisee to be installed in, under, over, along, across or upon a street
shall be so located so as to cause minimum interference with the public use of
the street and to cause minimum interference with the rights of other users of
the streets or of property owners who adjoin any of the streets. All the
installments in or upon property owned or controlled by the county shall be
subject to the prior approval of the county.
   (E)   In the event of disturbance of any public or private property by a
franchisee, it shall at its own expense and in a manner approved by the county,
replace and restore the public and private property in as good a condition as
before the work causing the disturbance was done.
   (F)   Franchisees shall construct, maintain and operate their cable
telecommunications systems so as to cause minimum inconvenience to the general
public. All excavations shall be properly guarded and protected and shall be
required and the surface restored promptly after completion of the work at
franchisee's sole cost and expense.
   (G)   The franchisee shall, upon reasonable notice from any person holding a
building moving permit issued by the county, temporarily alter their facilities
to permit the moving of the building. The actual cost of the altering shall be
borne by the person requesting the altering and franchisees shall have the
right to request payment in advance. For the purposes of this chapter,
REASONABLE NOTICE shall be construed to mean written notice received by the
franchisee at least 72 hours prior to the move.
   (H)   If at any time in case of fire or disaster in the county it shall
become necessary in the judgment of the County Manager or the Chief of the Fire
Department or their designee to cut or move any of the wires, cables,
amplifiers, appliances or appurtenances thereto of a franchisee, the cutting or
moving may be done and any repairs rendered necessary thereby shall be made by
franchisee at no expense to the county.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.10 ADDITIONAL COUNTY RIGHTS IN FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county may from time to time add to or modify or delete provisions
of this chapter as it shall deem necessary in the exercise of its regulatory
powers provided that the additions or revisions are reasonable and in keeping
with the public interest and welfare.
      (1)   The additions or revisions shall be made only after a public
hearing for which franchisees shall have received written notice at least 30
days prior to the hearing.
      (2)   In the event of a conflict between any provision of this chapter
(or amendment to it) and a franchise granted pursuant hereto, the provisions of
the franchise shall control.
   (B)   The county reserves the right upon reasonable notice to require the
grantee at his or her own expense to protect, support, temporarily disconnect,
relocate or remove from the county's streets any property of the grantee by
reason of traffic conditions, public safety, street construction or excavation,
change or establishment of street grade, installation of sewers, drains, water
pipes, power of communication lines, tracts or other types of structure or
improvements by governmental agencies or any structures of public improvement.
REASONABLE NOTICE for this provision of this chapter shall be construed to mean
at least 30 days except in the case of emergencies where no specific notice
period shall be required.
   (C)   In the event of the failure by the grantee to complete any work
required by division (B) above or any work required by county law or ordinance
within the time established and to the satisfaction of the county, the county
may cause the work to be done and the grantee shall reimburse the county the
costs thereof within 30 days after receipt of an itemized list of the cost.
   (D)   The county reserves the right, in the event of an emergency or
disaster, to require the grantee to make available to the County Manager, or
his or her appointee, at his or her request, the grantee's facilities at no
cost, for emergency use during the emergency or disaster period.
   (E)   The county reserves the right during the life of any franchise granted
hereunder to have access at all reasonable hours to the grantee's plans,
contracts and engineering, accounting, financial, statistical, customer and
service records relating to the property and the operations of the grantee and
to all other records required to be kept hereunder upon reasonable request.
   (F)   The county reserves the right during the life of any franchise granted
hereunder, to install and maintain free from charge upon the poles and conduits
of the grantee any wire and pole fixture necessary for municipal networks such
as police and fire, on the condition that the installations and maintenance
thereof do not interfere with the operations of the grantee.
   (G)   The county reserves the right during the life of any franchise granted
hereunder, to reasonably inspect and supervise at the grantee's cost, all
construction or installation work performed subject to the provisions of this
chapter to ensure compliance with the terms of this chapter.
      (1)   The county may also perform measurements upon and randomly inspect
any portion of a grantee's system to ensure compliance with the technical
standards under which the grantee is authorized to operate.
      (2)   Upon the county's request, the grantee will perform the tests,
submitting the results to the county.
   (H)   The county reserves the right during the life of any franchise granted
hereunder, upon 90 days notice, to hold a public hearing for the express
purpose of reviewing the general and specific performance of the grantee with
regard to all franchise provisions contained herein or in the future adopted by
the county.
   (I)   Neither the granting of any franchise nor any governing provision of
the franchise shall constitute a waiver or bar to the exercise of any
governmental right or power of the county.
   (J)   Nothing in this chapter shall in any way or to any extent be construed
to waive, modify or abridge the county's right of eminent domain in respect to
a franchisee.
   (K)   Any right or power in, or duty impressed upon any officer, employee,
department or board of the county shall be subject to be transfer by the County
Board by law to any other officer, employee, department or board. The county
reserves the rights not specifically granted herein, and the enumeration of the
rights herein shall not be construed to be a limitation of any right or power
the county may otherwise have.
   (L)   The county shall have the authority to order a hearing every five
years on the provision of additional capacity. If after a hearing, the county
determines:
      (1)   A requirement for additional capacity exists; and
      (2)   Consideration has been made or will be made for adequate rates to
allow the company a fair rate of return on its additional investment.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 112.25 SERVICE AREA.
   The franchisee of any franchise hereunder is empowered to provide service to
all potential subscribers now or in the future who are located within the
portion or portions of the county as are contained in the franchise.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.26 EMERGENCY ALERT OVERRIDE SYSTEM.
   The company shall incorporate into its cable telecommunications systems, the
capacity which will permit the county, in times of emergency, to override the
audio portion of all channels simultaneously, by telephone or other
communicating medium to be provided by the company.
   (A)   The company shall designate a channel which will be used for emergency
broadcasts of both audio and video.
   (B)   The company shall cooperate with the county in the use and operation
of the emergency alert override system.
   (C)   Franchises shall comply with all FCC rules relating to the provision
of emergency messages under the emergency alert system.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.27 INTERCONNECTION.
   The company shall interconnect its cable system with any or all other cable
systems in nearby areas, upon the directive of the county. To accomplish this
requirement, the company shall familiarize itself with the technical demands
necessary to cause the interconnection.
   (A)   Interconnection of the systems may be done by direct cable connection,
microwave link, satellite or other appropriate method.
   (B)   Upon receiving a directive from the county to interconnect, the
company shall immediately initiate negotiations with the other affected system
or systems in order that all costs may be shared equitably among cable
companies for both construction and operation of the interconnection link. The
interconnection shall be made within the time limit established by the county.
   (C)   The company may be granted reasonable extensions of the time to
interconnect, or the county may rescind its order to interconnect upon petition
by the company to the county shall grant the request, if it finds the company
has negotiated in good faith and has failed to obtain approval from the other
affected systems, or the cost of interconnection would cause an unreasonable or
unacceptable increase in subscriber rates.
   (D)   The company shall cooperate with any interconnection corporation,
regional interconnection authority or county, state and federal regulatory
agency established for the purpose of regulating, financing or otherwise
providing for the interconnection of cable systems beyond the boundaries of the
county. Further, the company will cooperate with other cable telecommunications
system operators in an attempt to standardize the number of channels likely to
be interconnected, to standardize a suitable frequency plan that would be
compatible with existing microwave coverage in the area that would permit the
maximum number of systems to interconnect, and to standardize the actual
channel assignments.
   (E)   The company shall design and operate the system so as to facilitate
interconnection as stated above.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.28 PUBLIC, EDUCATIONAL AND GOVERNMENTAL ACCESS.
   (A)   The county shall have the right to establish an authority or
commission to administer for the county all community media (access)
activities. The county may establish, consistent with federal and state law,
requirements in franchises with respect to the designation and use of channel
capacity on a franchisee's cable telecommunications system for public,
educational and governmental access.
   (B)   The county shall have the right to direct the grantee to collect fees
from customers to support the annual operating requirements of a community
media (access) operation. The fee shall be collected and remitted to the county
for deposits in a special revenue fund, designated for this purpose, each
month.
   (C)   Each month, the grantee shall contribute a sum equivalent to 0.5% of
gross revenues to a special event fund designated for the acquisition of
capital assets, to fulfill the capital requirements of the community media
(access) operation.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.29 CHANNELS, NEW DEVELOPMENTS AND ACCESS UTILIZATION.
   The county shall have the authority to order a public hearing from time to
time on the provision of channel capacity for public bandwidth on the network.
If after a hearing, the county determines that:
   (A)   There exists a reasonable demand for additional bandwidth; and
   (B)   Provisions have been made to allow the company a fair rate of return
on its investments, the county shall order the company to provide the
additional capacity within a reasonable amount of time. If the county finds
that additional public bandwidth is desirable, the company shall within three
months from receipt of written notice from the county make additional bandwidth
available.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.30 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   Franchisees shall not deny service, or otherwise discriminate against
subscribers or citizens, on the basis of race, color, religion, national
origin, age, gender, disability, family status, marital status, veteran status
or sexual orientation. Franchisees shall comply at all times with all other
applicable federal, state and local laws relating to nondiscrimination in the
provision of goods and services.
   (B)   Franchisees shall adhere to applicable equal employment opportunity
requirements of federal and state law.
   (C)   In the course of providing their services, franchisees shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a subscriber's right of privacy as
the right is defined by applicable federal and state law.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.31 UNLAWFUL CONNECTIONS AND THEFT OF SERVICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach or
maintain an electronic, mechanical or other connection to any cable, wire,
decoder, converter, descrambler, device or equipment of a cable
telecommunications system or to remove, tamper with, modify or alter any cable,
wire, decoder, converter, descrambler, device or equipment of a cable
telecommunications system for the purpose of intercepting or receiving any
programming or service transmitted by the cable telecommunications system for
which the person, firm or corporation has not been authorized by the cable
telecommunications system to receive.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation without the
authorization of a cable telecommunications system, to distribute, sell,
attempt to sell or possess for sale any converter, decoder, descrambler, device
or kit or other equipment that is designated to decode or descramble any
encoded or scrambled signal transmitted by the cable telecommunication system.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.32 LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   It shall be expressly understood and agreed by and between the county,
employees and officials and any grantee hereunder that the grantee shall save
the county, its employees and officials harmless and indemnify it and them from
all loss sustained by the county, its employees and officials on account of any
suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever, including, but not
limited to, copyright infringements, and all other damages arising out of the
award of a franchise on the installation or operation or maintenance of the
cable telecommunications system authorized herein, whether or not any act of
omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter and
any franchise granted hereunder.
   (B)   The grantee shall pay and by its acceptance of any franchise granted
hereunder agrees that it will pay all expenses incurred by the county,
employees and officials in defending itself with regard to all damages and
penalties mentioned in division (A) above. These expenses shall include all
reasonable out of pocket expenses, such as consultant or attorney fees, and
shall also include the reasonable value of any services rendered by the County
Attorney or his or her staff or any other employees of the county.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.33 FILING AND COMMUNICATIONS WITH REGULATORY AGENCIES.
   The grantee shall simultaneously file and maintain with the County Board
copies of all petitions, applications and communications, relative to any
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, transmitted by the grantee to, or
received by the grantee from all federal and state regulatory commissions or
agencies having competent jurisdiction to regulate the operations of any broad
band telecommunications network authorized hereunder.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996)
§ 112.34 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with laws. The grantee agrees to comply fully with local
ordinances, state and federal laws, and with all rules issued by regulatory
agencies now or hereafter in existence.
   (B)   Severability. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter is held invalid or unconstitutional, that invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of the remainder of this
chapter, and any portions in conflict are hereby repealed; provided, however,
that in the event that the FCC declares any section invalid, then that section
will be renegotiated by the county and the grantee.
   (C)   Captions. The captions to sections are inserted solely for information
and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of the ordinance.
   (D)   No recourse against the county. The grantee shall have no recourse
whatsoever against the county or its officers, boards, commissioners, agents or
employees for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising out of any provision or
requirement of this chapter or because of its enforcement.
   (E)   Non-enforcement. The grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation
to comply promptly with any of the provisions of the franchise by any failure
of the county to enforce prompt compliance.
   (F)   Governed by laws of the state. This chapter and any disputes arising
from its adoption, or from any franchise granted pursuant thereto shall be
governed by the laws of the state and the county consistent with applicable FCC
rules and regulations required to be observed in the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (G)   Conflict. This chapter shall not be deemed conclusive as to the terms
and conditions of any franchise hereinafter issued hereunder. The final terms
and conditions of the franchise shall be determined by the franchise ordinance.
   (H)   Franchise required. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to construct, operate or maintain a cable telecommunications system
in the county as defined without a franchise.
   (I)   New franchises. The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to
franchises issued after the effective date of this chapter. Any previously
existing franchise shall comply with the ordinance in effect at the time the
franchise was granted.
(Ord. passed 3-25-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: EMERGENCY MEDICAL, FIRST RESPONDER, AND RESCUE SERVICES
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Franchise required
   
113.03   Application for ambulance franchise
   
113.04   Application for medical first responders
   
113.05   Application for rescue services
   
113.06   Granting of franchise
   
113.07   Term of franchise
   
113.08   Standards for drivers and attendants
   
113.09   Standards for vehicles and equipment
   
113.10   Standards for communications
   
113.11   Insurance
   
113.12   Records
   
113.13   Rates and charges
   
113.14   Enforcement
   
113.15   Miscellaneous
   
113.16   County Emergency Medical Service Advisory Council
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context otherwise requires, the following definitions shall apply
in the interpretation and enforcement of this chapter:
   AMBULANCE. Any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle, aircraft, or
vessel that is specially designed, constructed, or modified and equipped and is
intended to be used for and is maintained or operated for the transportation on
the streets or highways, waterways or airways of this state of persons who are
sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless.
   AMBULANCE PROVIDER. An individual, firm, corporation, or association who
engages or professes to engage in the business or service of transporting
patients in an ambulance.
   APPROVED. Approved by the North Carolina Medical Care Commission pursuant to
the latter’s rules and regulations promulgated under G.S. § 143B-165.
   CONTRACT. The instrument by which both parties agree to the terms of
operation of the service to be provided.
   CONVALESCENT TRANSPORTATION SERVICE. The operation of an ambulance for any
purpose other than transporting emergency or emergency patients.
   COUNCIL. The Chatham County Emergency Medical Services Council.
   COUNTY. Chatham County and its Board of Commissioners or their designated
representative.
   EMERGENCY or EMERGENCY TRANSPORTATION SERVICE. The use of a service, its
equipment and personnel to provide medical care, rescue, and/or transportation
of a patient who is in need of immediate rescue or medical treatment in order
to prevent loss of life or further aggravation or physiological or
psychological illness or injury.
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (EMT). An individual who has completed a
training program in emergency medical care at least equal to the National
Standard Training Program for Emergency Medical Technicians as defined by the
United States Department of Transportation and has been certified as an
emergency medical technician by the State Office of Emergency Medical Services.
   FIRST RESPONDER. An organization with personnel trained in emergency medical
care that is dispatched to the scene of a medical emergency for the primary
purpose of providing emergency medical assistance to a patient until the
ambulance and additional medical aid arrives.
   FRANCHISE. A permit issued by the county to a person for the operation of an
ambulance service, rescue squad, or first responder unit.
   FRANCHISEE. Any person having been issued a franchise by the county for the
operation of an ambulance service, rescue squad, or first responder unit.
   LICENSE. Any driver’s license or permit to operate a motor vehicle issued
under or granted pursuant to the laws of the State of North Carolina.
   OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of an ambulance or rescue
service vehicle which is in motion or which has the engine running.
   OWNER. Any person or entity who owns an ambulance or provides a service
covered by this chapter.
   PATIENT. An individual who is sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless such that the need for some medical assistance might
be anticipated while being transported to or from a medical facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, group of individuals acting together for a common purpose, or
organization of any kind, including any governmental agency other than the
United States.
   RESCUE. Situations where the victim cannot escape an area through the normal
exit or under his or her own power.
   SECONDARY AMBULANCE PROVIDER. The system of personnel and equipment meeting
the same criteria as a primary ambulance provider, but not normally dispatched
on first call response.
   SERVICE. Shall mean the same as OWNER.
   TELECOMMUNICATOR. A person who is available at all times to receive requests
for emergency services, to dispatch emergency services, and to advise local law
enforcement agencies, fire departments, rescue squads, and emergency medical
services and facilities of any existing or threatened emergency.
   VICTIM. Any patient or potential patient that is entrapped, entangled,
pinned, fallen, suspended, or otherwise in need of rescue services.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.02 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person either as owner, agent, or otherwise, shall furnish,
operate, conduct, maintain, advertise, or otherwise be engaged in or profess to
be engaged in the business or service of emergency, emergent, and/or
convalescent transportation of patients within the county unless the person
holds a valid permit for each ambulance used in such business or service issued
by the State Department of Human Resources, Office of Emergency Medical
Services, and has been granted a franchise for the operation of such business
or service by the county pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall drive an ambulance, attend a patient in one, or permit
one to be operated when transporting a patient within the county unless he or
she holds a currently valid state operator’s license and a currently valid
certificate as an EMT (emergency medical technician), EMT-D (emergency medical
technician - defibrillator), EMT-I (emergency medical technician -
intermediate), or EMT-P (emergency medical technician - paramedic) issued by
the State Department of Human Resources, Office of Emergency Medical Services.
   (C)   No person either as owner, agent, or otherwise, shall furnish,
operate, conduct, maintain, advertise, or otherwise be engaged in or profess to
be engaged in the business or service of providing rescue services or first
responder services unless he or she has been granted a franchise for the
operation of such business or service by the county pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   No franchise shall be required for:
      (1)   Any entity operated from a location or headquarters outside of the
county in order to transport patients who are picked up beyond the limits of
the county, to facilities located within the county, or to pick up patients
within the county for transporting to locations outside the county; but no such
entity shall be used to pick up patients within the county for transporting to
locations within the county or other locations unless it is rendering
assistance to a franchised ambulance service in the case of a major catastrophe
or mutual aid.
      (2)   Ambulances owned and operated by an agency of the county, the
state, or the United States.
      (3)   Any entity providing emergency medical, first responder, rescue
services, or ambulance services pursuant to a contract or other agreement with
the county.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997; Ord. passed 2-20-2017)
§ 113.03 APPLICATION FOR AMBULANCE FRANCHISE.
   Application for a franchise to operate ambulances, emergency or
convalescent, in the county shall be made by the ambulance provider upon such
forms as may be prepared or prescribed by the county and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the ambulance provider and of the owner of the
ambulance(s).
   (B)   Written recommendations showing proof of good moral character and, in
case the applicant is a corporation, such corporation must be a North Carolina
corporation or domesticated in this state, and the officers thereof shall
provide written recommendations showing proof of good moral character.
   (C)   The trade or other fictitious names, if any, under which the applicant
does business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name certificate
stating such name or a certified copy of the articles of incorporation if
applicant is a corporation.
   (D)   A resume of the training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of patients.
   (E)   Detailed plans stating the method of implementation and operation of
service, including a full description of the type and level of service to be
provided including the location of the place or places from which it is
intended to operate, the manner in which the public will be able to obtain
assistance and how the vehicles will be dispatched. A financial statement of
the applicant as the same pertains to the operations in the county, said
financial statement to be in such form and in such detail as may be required by
the county.
   (F)   A list of radio frequencies the applicant is authorized to operate on,
and a copy of the FCC license(s) in the name of the person providing the
service.
   (G)   A description of the applicant’s capability to provide 24-hour
coverage, seven days per week for the district covered by the franchise applied
for, and an accurate estimate of the minimum and maximum times for a response
to calls within such district.
   (H)   A list of all vehicles including year, model, and license number,
proof of required insurance performance security documents, and any other
information the county shall deem reasonably necessary for a fair determination
of the capability of the applicant to provide ambulance services in the county
in accordance with the requirements of state laws and the provisions of this
regulation.
   (I)   A statement indicating applicant’s consent to the county director of
emergency services inspecting applicant’s stations, vehicles, equipment, and
attendants’ state medical certification cards during the term of any franchise
granted.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.04 APPLICATION FOR MEDICAL FIRST RESPONDERS.
   Application for a franchise to operate as medical first responders in the
county shall be made by the provider upon such forms as may be prepared or
prescribed by the county and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the provider and of the owner of the service.
   (B)   The trade or other fictitious names, if any, under which the applicant
does business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name certificate
stating such name or articles of incorporation stating such name.
   (C)   A resume of the training and experience of the applicant in the
treatment and care of patients.
   (D)   A full description of the type and level of service to be provided
including the location of the place or places from which it is intended to
operate, the manner in which the public will be able to obtain assistance, and
how the vehicles will be dispatched. A financial statement of the applicant as
the same pertains to the operations in the county, said financial statement to
be in such form and in such detail as may be required by the county. A current
financial statement provided by a fire department, volunteer or otherwise,
operating within the county which has been provided to the county as part of
the county budget process shall satisfy this financial statement requirement.
   (E)   A list of radio frequencies the applicant is authorized to operate on,
and a copy of the FCC license(s) in the name of the person providing the
service, unless included as part of a fire department radio system.
   (F)   A description of the applicant’s capability to provide coverage for
the district covered by the franchise applied for, and an accurate estimate of
the minimum and maximum times for a response to calls within such district.
   (G)   Any information the county shall deem reasonably necessary for a fair
determination of the capability of the applicant to provide medical first
responder services in the county in accordance with the requirements of state
laws and the provisions of this regulation.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.05 APPLICATION FOR RESCUE SERVICES.
   Application for a franchise to provide rescue services in the county shall
be made by the provider upon such forms as may be prepared or prescribed by the
county and shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the provider and of the owner of the service
(s).
   (B)   The trade or other fictitious names, if any, under which the applicant
does business, along with a certified copy of an assumed name certificate
stating such name or articles of incorporation stating such name.
   (C)   A resume of the training and experience of the applicant in the rescue
techniques of victims.
   (D)   A full description of the type and level of service to be provided
including the location of the place or places from which it is intended to
operate, the manner in which the public will be able to obtain assistance, and
how the vehicles will be dispatched. A financial statement of the applicant as
the same pertains to the operations in the county, said financial statement to
be in such form and in such detail as may be required by the county.
   (E)   A list of radio frequencies the applicant is authorized to operate on,
and a copy of the FCC license(s) in the name of the person providing the
service.
   (F)   A description of the applicant’s capability to provide 24-hour
coverage, seven days per week for the district covered by the franchise applied
for, and an accurate estimate of the minimum and maximum times for a response
to calls within such district.
   (G)   Any information the county shall deem reasonably necessary for a fair
determination of the capability of the applicant to provide rescue services in
the county in accordance with the requirements of state laws and the provisions
of this regulation.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.06 GRANTING OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Prior to accepting applications for the operation of any service, the
Board of Commissioners may designate specific service areas as franchise
districts. Said districts will be established using criteria that includes
geographic size, road access, the location of existing medical transportation
services, population, and response time. The county shall have the authority to
redistrict or rearrange existing districts at any time at their discretion.
   (B)   An applicant may apply for a franchise to operate an ambulance
service, emergency or convalescent, rescue service, or medical first responder
unit or any two or all three. If more than one service is to be provided, an
application must be filed for each service.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a franchise, the county shall
schedule a time and place for hearing the applicant. Within 30 days after
hearing, the county shall cause such investigation as it may deem necessary to
be made of the applicant and his or her proposed operations.
   (D)   A franchise may be granted if the county finds that:
      (1)   The applicant meets county/state standards and standards outlined
in the franchise ordinance.
      (2)   The proposed service will fit within the existing services as not
to adversely affect the level of service or operations of other franchisees to
render service.
      (3)   A need exists for the rendered service in order to improve the
level of service available to residents of the county helping to assure the
provision of adequate and continuing service which preserves, protects, and
promotes the public health, safety, and welfare and that granting the franchise
is a reasonable and cost effective manner of meeting the need.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.07 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The county may issue a franchise hereunder to an ambulance provider,
to be valid for a term of five years. The franchise holder can surrender
franchise with 60 days notice and the county may revoke the franchise as
provided in §
113.14(E). After a notice of service termination is given, the provider may
reapply for a franchise if continued service is desired.
   (B)   Upon suspension, revocation, or termination of a franchise granted
hereunder, such franchised ambulance service, rescue squad, or first responder
unit immediately shall cease operations. Upon suspension, revocation, or
termination of a driver’s license or an attendant’s certificate, i.e., First
Responder, Rescue, Emergency Medical Technician, EMT-D, EMT-I, EMT-AI, or EMT-
P certificate, such persons shall cease to drive an ambulance or provide
medical care, first responder and rescue service or attend an ambulance. No
franchisee shall allow or permit any individual to drive an ambulance or
provide medical care in conjunction with the ambulance service, provide rescue
service or first responder service while their requisite license or certificate
is in a state of suspension or revocation.
   (C)   Each franchised service shall comply at all times with the
requirements of this chapter, the franchise granted hereunder, and all
applicable state and local laws relating to health, sanitation, safety,
equipment, ambulance design and all other laws and ordinances.
   (D)   Prior approval of the county shall be required where ownership or
control of more than 10% of the ownership or right of control of a franchise is
acquired by a person or group of persons acting in concert, none of whom own or
control 10% or more of such right of control, singularly or collectively, at
the effective date of the franchise. By its acceptance of the franchise, the
franchisee specifically agrees that any such acquisition occurring without
prior approval of the county shall constitute a violation of the franchise by
the franchisee and shall be cause for termination at the option of the county.
   (E)   Any change of ownership of a franchised service without the approval
of the county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a new application
and a new franchise and conformance with all the requirements of this chapter
as upon original franchising.
   (F)   Any change in the level of service offered by a franchised ambulance
service, rescue squad, or first responder unit without the approval of the
county shall terminate the franchise and shall require a new application and a
new franchise and conformance with all the requirements of this chapter as upon
original franchising.
   (G)   No franchise may be sold, assigned, mortgaged, or otherwise
transferred without the approval of the county, and a finding of conformance
with all requirements of this chapter as upon original franchising. Each
franchised ambulance, rescue, or first responder service, its equipment and the
premises designated in the application and all records relating to its
maintenance and operation, as such, shall be open to inspection by the state,
the county, or their designated representatives.
   (H)   The franchise certificate shall be posted in a readily visible
location at the base of operations for the franchised service.
   (I)   No franchise certificate shall be altered, defaced, removed, or
obliterated.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.08 STANDARDS FOR DRIVERS AND ATTENDANTS.
   Standards for drivers and attendants as developed by the State Medical Care
Commission as requirements for certification of emergency medical technicians
pursuant to G.S. Ch. 131E, Article 7, § 131E-158, and Ch. 143, Article 56, and
rules and regulations promulgated by the Board of Medical Examiners for
advanced life support technicians shall be applied and the same are
incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.09 STANDARDS FOR VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Vehicle and equipment standards as developed by the State Medical Care
Commission pursuant to G.S. Ch. 131E, Article 7, § 131E-157, and Ch. 143,
Article 56, and shall be applied and the same are incorporated herein by
reference.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.10 STANDARDS FOR COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Each ambulance vehicle shall be equipped with an operational two-way
radio capable of establishing good quality voice communications from within the
geographic confines of the county to each hospital’s emergency department in
the county in which the service is based. Each ambulance vehicle shall be
equipped with two-way radio communications capabilities for communications with
all hospital(s) emergency departments to which transportation of patients is
made on a regular or routine basis anywhere within the state. Each ambulance or
rescue vehicle shall be equipped with an operational two-way radio capable of
establishing communications from within the geographic confines of the county
to the dispatching agency within the county.
   (B)   Each provider shall maintain current authorizations or Federal
Communication Commission licenses for all frequencies and radio transmitters
operated by that provider. Copies of all authorizations and licenses shall be
on display and available for inspection per Federal Communication Commission’s
Rules and Regulations.
   (C)   Each base of operations must have at least one open telephone line.
Telephone numbers must be registered with each law enforcement agency and
communications center in the county.
   (D)   Each service shall be dispatched from the County Dispatch Center or an
acceptable and approved alternative.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.11 INSURANCE.
   No franchise shall be issued under this chapter, nor shall such franchise be
valid after issuance, nor shall any service vehicles be operated in the county
unless the franchisee has at all times in force and effect either insurance
coverage, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state
for every vehicle owned and/or operated by or for the service providing for the
payment of damages:
   (A)   In the minimum sum of $1,000,000 for injury to or death of individuals
in accidents resulting from any cause for which the owner of said vehicle would
be liable on account of liability imposed on him or her by law, regardless of
whether the vehicle was being driven by the owner or his or her agent; and
   (B)   In the minimum sum of $1,000,000 for the loss of or damage to the
property of another, including personal property, under like circumstances, in
sums as may be required by the state or as approved by the county.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.12 RECORDS.
   Each franchisee shall maintain the following records:
   (A)   Record of Dispatch: Shall show time call was received, time
dispatched, time arrived on scene, time arrived at destination, time in
service, and time returned to base.
   (B)   Trip Record: Shall state all information required in division (A) in
addition to information on a form approved by the county. The trip record shall
be so designed as to provide the patient with a copy thereof containing all
required information.
   (C)   Driver and Attendant Checklist and Inspection Report: Shall list
contents and description of operations for each vehicle, signed by the
individual verifying vehicle operations and equipment.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.13 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Each franchisee shall submit a schedule of rates to the county for
approval and shall not charge more nor less than the approved rates without
specific approval by the county.
   (B)   No service shall attempt to collect rates on emergency calls until the
patient has reached the point of destination, has received medical attention,
and is in a condition deemed by the physician fit to consult with the service,
but such service may attempt to collect rates with family or guardian of the
patient once the patient is in the process of receiving medical attention.
   (C)   On convalescent calls, attempts to collect payment may be made before
the ambulance begins its trip.
   (D)   Medical facilities licensed by the State Division of Facility
Services, and those who must comply with the standards of the Joint Commission
for the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, shall be, on a secondary
basis, financially responsible for the transportation costs of patients who are
in their care.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   The County Office of Emergency Management shall be the enforcing agency for
the regulations contained in this chapter. Such office will:
   (A)   Receive all franchise proposals from potential providers.
   (B)   Study each proposal for conformance to this chapter and present the
proposal for consideration.
   (C)   Upon receiving advice from the EMS Council, recommend to the Board of
Commissioners the approval/disapproval of the franchise(s) to the applicant(s)
submitting the best proposal(s).
   (D)   Inspect the premises, vehicles, equipment, and personnel of franchisee
(s) to assure compliance to this chapter and perform any other inspections that
may be required.
   (E)   Upon receiving advice from the Council, recommend to the Board of
Commissioners the temporary or permanent suspension of a franchise in the event
of noncompliance with the franchise terms of this chapter. Recommend the
imposition of civil penalties as provided herein or such other enforcement
action as he or she deems appropriate, including the bringing of criminal
charges.
   (F)   Insure by cooperative agreement with other services the continued
service in a district where a service franchise has been suspended or revoked.
   (G)   Receive complaints from the public, other enforcing agencies, and
services regarding franchise infractions. Review the complaint and institute
corrective action with the advice of the Council.
   (H)   Upon receiving advice from the Council, recommend improvements to the
county which will insure better rescue service and medical care and
transportation.
   (I)   Maintain records required by this chapter and other applicable county
regulations.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.15 MISCELLANEOUS.
   The county may upon reasonable notice inspect a franchisee’s records,
premises, and equipment at any time in order to insure compliance with this
chapter and any franchise granted hereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
§ 113.16 COUNTY EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICE ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall have the responsibility and duty of advising the
Emergency Management Director on matters relating to the enforcement of this
chapter as specified in §
113.14 above and shall provide information and advice to the Board of County
Commissioners regarding such standards of care, policies, procedures, and
actions which will maintain and improve the quality of emergency medical
services for the residents of the county.
   (B)   Representatives from the franchised providers may attend any meetings
when the Council considers matters relating to the granting of franchises and/
or reviewing complaints from the public and investigations regarding franchised
services.
(Ord. passed 6-26-1997)
CHAPTER 114: NON-DISCRIMINATION IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS AND IN
EMPLOYMENT
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Discrimination in places of public accommodations prohibited
   
114.03   Discrimination in employment prohibited
   
114.04   Penalties and enforcement
   
114.05   Applicability
   
114.06   Conflict with state and federal law
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYER. Any person employing one or more persons and any person acting in
the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly.
   GENDER IDENTITY or GENDER EXPRESSION. Having or being perceived as having
gender related identity, expression, appearance, or behavior, whether or not
that identity, expression, appearance, or behavior is different from that
traditionally associated with the sex assigned to that individual at birth.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, partnerships, associations, organizations,
corporations, legal representatives, unincorporated organizations, fiduciaries,
and other organized groups of persons.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. Includes, but is not limited to, any place,
facility, store, other establishment, hotel, or motel, which supplies goods,
services, or accommodations on the premises to the public or which solicits or
accepts the patronage or trade of any person.
   PREGNANCY. Includes, but is not limited to, pregnancy, childbirth, or any
medical condition related to pregnancy or childbirth.
(Ord. passed - -2021)
§ 114.02 DISCRIMINATION IN PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a place of public accommodation to
deny the full enjoyment of the accommodations, advantages, facilities or
privileges thereof on the basis of race, natural hair or hairstyles, ethnicity,
creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression,
national origin, national ancestry, marital status, familial status, pregnancy,
veteran status, religion, religious belief or non-belief, age, or disability.
(Ord. passed - -2021)
§ 114.03 DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any employer, because of the race, natural hair or
hairstyles, ethnicity, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
gender expression, national origin, national ancestry, marital status, familial
status, pregnancy, veteran status, religion, religious belief or non-belief,
age, or disability of any person, to refuse to hire or otherwise discriminate
against that person with respect to hire, tenure, conditions or privileges of
employment, or any matter directly or indirectly related to employment.
(Ord. passed - -2021)
§ 114.04 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter may be subject to an
enforcement action brought by the county under G.S. § 153-123(d) and (e) for an
appropriate equitable remedy, including but not limited to a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction commanding the defendant to correct the conduct
prohibited under this chapter. A violation of this chapter shall not constitute
a misdemeanor or infraction. This chapter is not intended to limit the remedies
available to any person under state or federal law.
(Ord. passed - -2021)
§ 114.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be applicable to any part of the county not within a
municipality unless the governing board of a municipality adopts a resolution
permitting this chapter to be applicable within the municipality.
(Ord. passed - -2021)
§ 114.06 CONFLICT WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   If the provisions of this chapter conflict with any right or privilege of an
employer or person who provides a public accommodation that is established or
recognized by state or federal law, or the state or federal constitution, that
right or privilege shall prevail over the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Hunting/possessing a loaded firearm on county-owned property
   
130.02   Weapons prohibited in county buildings housing any court of the
General Court of Justice or any county law enforcement activity
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 HUNTING/POSSESSING A LOADED FIREARM ON COUNTY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt upon any land owned
by the county with any firearm, bow and arrow or dog.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         TO HUNT. To take wild animals or wild birds.
         TO TAKE. All operations during, immediately preparatory and
immediately subsequent to an attempt, whether successful or not, to capture,
kill, pursue, hunt or otherwise harm or reduce to possession any wild animal or
bird.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a loaded firearm
upon any land owned by the county, except a law enforcement officer actually
engaged in the performance of his or her duties, and except as otherwise
provided under G.S. § 14-269 and any other applicable state law.
      (4)   This division (A) may be enforced by the Sheriff and his or her
deputies, the law enforcement officers of the State Wildlife Resources
Commission and any other law enforcement officer authorized to enforce hunting
laws and regulations.
   (B)   (1)   Posting of signs required. The County Manager is hereby ordered
to post appropriate signage on each park, building or portion of a building now
or hereafter owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed or controlled
by the county, as well as the appurtenant premises to the buildings, indicating
that concealed handguns are prohibited therein.
      (2)   Location of signs. The signs shall be visibly posted at each
exterior entrance by which the general public can access the building,
appurtenant premises or park. The County Manager shall exercise discretion in
determining the necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on
the interior of the building, appurtenant premises or park.
   (C)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 3-21-1991; Ord. passed 10-16-1995; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 WEAPONS PROHIBITED IN COUNTY BUILDINGS HOUSING ANY COURT OF THE
GENERAL COURT OF JUSTICE OR ANY COUNTY LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COURTHOUSE. Any building, facility, or other structure owned by, leased
to, occupied by, or kept or maintained by Chatham County, housing any court of
the General Court of Justice or any function or operation related to the
General Court of Justice, including, without limitation, the Chatham County
Justice Center and the Historic Courthouse.
      FIREARM. A handgun, shotgun, or rifle which expels, or is designed to
expel, a projectile by action of an explosion.
      HANDGUN. A pistol, revolver or other firearm that has a short stock and
is designed to be held and fired by the use of a single hand, including but not
limited to any revolver, pistol, derringer, single-shot pistol, or semi-
automatic pistol.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT FACILITY. The Chatham County Jail, Detention Center,
Sheriffs Office, or any other building, facility, structure, or other property,
owned by, leased to, or kept or maintained by Chatham County housing any county
law enforcement activities and under the control of the Sheriff of Chatham
County.
      WEAPON. Means and includes any firearm, handgun, knife, explosive device,
air guns of any descriptions (BB guns, paintball guns, pellet guns, and the
like) dirk, dagger, slung shot, sling shot, leaded cane, switchblade knife,
blackjack, metallic knuckles, razor, Shurikin, stun gun, or other deadly weapon
as defined in the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (B)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or carry,
or cause to be carried or possessed, either directly or indirectly, whether
open or concealed, loaded or unloaded, with or without a permit, any firearm,
handgun, or other weapon, on or in a courthouse or any law enforcement
facility, including their immediately appurtenant grounds or adjoining parking
area.
   (C)   Exceptions. The prohibition contained in division (B) of this section
shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States when in discharge of their official duties as such and acting under
lawful orders requiring them to carry a handgun, firearm, or other weapon;
      (2)   Civil officers or employees of the United States or the state while
in the discharge of their official duties as such and acting under lawful
orders requiring them to carry a handgun, firearm, or other weapon;
      (3)   Officers and soldiers of the national guard when called into actual
service as such and acting under lawful orders requiring them to carry a
handgun, firearm, or other weapon;
      (4)   Officers of the state, or any county, city, or town charged with
the enforcement of the laws of the state or the detention of any prisoner or
detainee, when acting in the discharge of such officer's official duties and
under lawful orders requiring or authorizing such officer to carry a hand gun
or other firearm or other weapon;
      (5)   Sworn law enforcement officers, state probation or parole certified
officers, when off duty, provided that an officer does not carry a weapon while
in a courtroom on personal business, for a personal matter, or if he or she has
a personal interest in the matter before the court, or while consuming alcohol
or an unlawful controlled substance or while alcohol or an unlawful controlled
substance remains in the officer’s body;
      (6)   Duly appointed Chatham County animal services officers if necessary
to carry out their official duties and to complete firearms and taser training
on county owned firing ranges, and other county owned property, when the
training and instructor are specifically authorized by the Sheriff; provided,
however, that no such officer shall carry a weapon while in a courtroom on
personal business, for a personal matter, or if he or she has a personal
interest in the matter before the court, or while consuming alcohol or an
unlawful controlled substance or while alcohol or an unlawful controlled
substance remains in the officer's body
      (7)   Basic Law Enforcement training cadets ("Cadet"), if necessary to
complete firearms and taser training on county owned firing ranges, and other
county owned property when the training and instructor are specifically
authorized by the Sheriff; provided, however, that a Cadet shall not carry a
weapon while in a courtroom on personal business, for a personal matter, or if
he or she has a personal interest in the matter before the court, or while
consuming alcohol or an unlawful controlled substance or while alcohol or an
unlawful controlled substance remains in the officer's body.
      (8)   Other non-law enforcement civilians but only when the training and
instructor are specifically authorized by the Sheriff.
      (9)   Any person delivering a handgun, firearm, or other weapon to a law
enforcement agency;
      (10)   Any person receiving a handgun, firearm, or other weapon from a
law enforcement agency;
      (11)   Any person who holds a lawfully issued concealed carry permit to
carry on or about his or her person a handgun and who has secured the concealed
handgun in a locked vehicle within the trunk, glove box, or other enclosed
compartment or area within or on the motor vehicle;
      (12)   Employees of a contractor or other business doing business on
county property carrying or possessing a knife when in discharge of their
official duties as such in fulfillment of a contract with the county and acting
under orders requiring the carry of a knife and employees of the county
carrying out their official duties under orders requiring the carry of a knife;
and
      (13)   Any other person or group exempted by the provisions of G.S. §§
14-269(b) or 14-269.4.
   (D)   Notice and signage. The sheriff or his or her designee shall post in a
conspicuous location on or in each courthouse and law enforcement facility
notices regarding the prohibitions contained in this section. The sheriff or
his or her designee shall exercise discretion in determining the number and
appropriate location of the notices to be posted.
   (E)   A violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2013; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2018; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of a provision of this chapter which is specifically
designated as a misdemeanor crime shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor and any person
convicted of the violation shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 3-21-1991; Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
TITLE XV: RESERVED
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section                     Code Section
                                 164.09,
1A-1, Rule 4                     164.12,
                                 164.20,
                                 164.99
                                 10.99,
                                 50.99,
                                 90.99,
14-4                             91.999,
                                 92.99,
                                 111.99,
                                 130.99,
                                 150.99
14-269                           130.01
14-269(b)                        130.02
14-269.4                         130.02
14-360                           91.020,
                                 91.021
14-362                           91.021
14-363.2                         91.020
14-409.46                        92.05
67-4.1                           91.090,
                                 91.092
67-4.5                           91.090,
                                 91.092
74, Article 7                    164.04
105-227.2                        165.004
105-277.2(1)                     153.06
105-277.2(2)                     153.06
105-277.2(3)                     153.06
105-277.2 through 105-277.7      153.06
105-277.3                        153.06
106-738                          153.05
106-740                          153.09
106-744(e)(1)                    153.05
106, Article 61                  153.02
113A-1 et seq.                   164.10
113A-56(a)                       164.04
113A-61(c)                       164.19
113A-64                          164.20,
                                 164.99
113A-64(b)                       164.10
121-35                           153.06
130A-192                         91.070
130A-197                         91.051
130A, Article 9                  50.06
131E, Article 7, § 131E-157     113.09
131E, Article 7, § 131E-158     113.08
136-141 through 155 (Article 12) 111.04
139                              164.03
143-138(b)                       93.01
143-214.7                        165.001
143-215.23 et seq.               165.045
143, Article 56                  113.08,
                                 113.09
143B-165                         113.01
150B-14(c)                       164.03
150B, Article 3                  164.99
150B, Article 4                  164.20
153-123(d), (e)                  114.04
153A-49                          10.19,
                                 10.20
                                 50.01,
153A-121                         91.002,
                                 110.02,
                                 165.001
                                 10.99,
                                 50.99,
                                 91.002,
153A-123                         92.99,
                                 93.99,
                                 110.99,
                                 111.99
                                 50.99,
153A-123(d)                      91.999,
                                 111.99
                                 50.99,
153A-123(e)                      91.999,
                                 111.99
153A-127                         91.002
153A-136                         50.01,
                                 110.02
153A-149(c)(11)                  93.01
153A-201                         153.11
153A-233 through 153A-235        93.01
153A-351                         Ch. 93, App. A
153A-364                         Ch. 93, App. A
153A-442                         91.002
153A-454                         165.001
153A, Article 6                  50.06
153A, Article 9                  153.11
153A, Article 15                 50.06
160A-411                         Ch. 93, App. A
160A-424                         Ch. 93, App. A
160A, Article 16                 165.110
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      3-21-1991   130.01,
                     130.99
                     111.01—
–      3-9-1992    111.10,
                     111.99
–      4-20-1992   31.01—
                     31.07
                     111.04—
–      3-8-1993    111.07,
                     111.99
–      8-16-1993   150.01,
                     150.99
                     50.01—
–      12-6-1993   50.08,
                     50.99
–      8-8-1994    90.01,
                     90.99
–      10-2-1995   31.01,
                     31.03
–      10-16-1995  130.01
                     112.01—
–      3-25-1996   112.10,
                     112.25—
                     112.34
–      6-26-1997   113.01—
                     113.16
–      11-5-2001   153.01—
                     153.13
                     164.01—
–      3-21-2005   164.23,
                     164.99
                     164.01—
–      1-1-2006    164.23,
                     164.99
                     92.01 ,
                     92.02,
–      9-18-2006   92.04—
                     92.10,
                     92.99
–      12-4-2006   30.01—
                     30.08
–      3-19-2007   111.99
                     51.01,
–      2-7-2008    51.02,
                     51.99
                     165.001—
                     165.004,
                     165.015,
                     165.030,
                     165.045—
                     165.051,
                     165.065,
–      11-24-2008  165.066,
                     165.080,
                     165.095,
                     165.110,
                     165.999,
                     Ch. 165, App. A,
                     Ch. 165, App. B,
                     Ch. 165, App. C,
                     Ch. 165, App. D
                     164.01—
–      12-2-2008   164.23,
                     164.99
                     165.001—
                     165.004,
                     165.015,
                     165.030,
                     165.045—
                     165.051,
                     165.065,
–      9-21-2009   165.066,
                     165.080,
                     165.095,
                     165.110,
                     165.999,
                     Ch. 165, App. A,
                     Ch. 165, App. B,
                     Ch. 165, App. C,
                     Ch. 165, App. D
                     93.01—
                     93.14,
–      - -2010     93.99,
                     Ch. 93, App. A,
                     Ch. 93, App. B,
                     Ch. 93, App. C
                     110.01—
–      11-21-2011  110.16,
                     110.99
                     165.001,
                     165.002,
                     165.004,
                     165.015,
                     165.045,
                     165.046,
–      - -         165.048—
                     165.050,
                     165.065,
                     165.066,
                     165.080,
                     165.081,
                     165.095,
                     165.999
                     93.01—
                     93.14,
–      11-19-2012  93.99,
                     Ch. 93, App. A,
                     Ch. 93, App. B,
                     Ch. 93, App. C
–      6-17-2013   130.02
–      7-15-2013   164.10,
                     164.99
                     92.01—
–      10-19-2015  92.10,
                     92.99
–      2-20-2017   113.02
                     91.001—
                     91.010,
                     91.020,
                     91.021,
                     91.035—
                     91.038,
–      9-18-2017   91.050—
                     91.053,
                     91.070—
                     91.080,
                     91.090—
                     91.093,
                     91.999
–      1-16-2018   130.02
–      3-19-2018   92.09,
                     92.99
-        - -2021     114.01—
                     114.06
                     90.01,
                     90.99,
                     91.005,
                     91.007—
                     91.010,
                     91.021,
                     91.035,
                     91.036,
                     91.038,
                     91.050,
                     91.051,
-        11-15-2021  91.053,
                     91.070,
                     91.075,
                     91.091,
                     91.999,
                     92.02,
                     92.04,
                     92.07,
                     92.99,
                     130.01,
                     130.02,
                     130.99
                    
 
 
