CHIMNEY ROCK VILLAGE,
NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-13 Supplement includes:
Local legislation current through ordinance passed 10-10-2024; and
State legislation current through 2024 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet 2
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
   Article
      
I.   INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS
      
II.   CORPORATE BOUNDARIES
      
III.   GOVERNING BODY
      
IV.   ELECTIONS
      
V.   ADMINISTRATION
THE CHARTER
Editor's Note: This charter is derived from House Bill 642, Chapter 444, of the
1991 Session of the General Assembly of North Carolina.
Section
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS.
   
Section 1.1   Incorporation and Corporate Powers
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   
Section 2.1   Village Boundaries
ARTICLE III. GOVERNING BODY.
   
Section 3.1   Structure of Governing Body; Number of Members
   
Section 3.2   Manner of Electing Council
   
Section 3.3   Term of Office of Council Members
   
Section 3.4   Election of Mayor; Term of Office
ARTICLE IV. ELECTIONS.
   
Section 4.1   Conduct of Village Elections
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATION.
   
Section 5.1   Village to Operate Under Mayor-Council Plan
 
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE CHIMNEY ROCK VILLAGE IN RUTHERFORD COUNTY. THE GENERAL
ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA ENACTS:
SECTION 1. A charter for the Village of Chimney Rock is enacted to read:
CHARTER OF CHIMNEY ROCK VILLAGE.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS.
   Section 1.1. Incorporation and Corporate Powers. The inhabitants of Chimney
Rock Village are a body corporate and politic under the name 'Chimney Rock
Village.' Under that name they have all the powers, duties, rights, privileges,
and immunities conferred and imposed on cities by the general law of North
Carolina.
ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
   Section 2.1. Village Boundaries. Until modified in accordance with the law,
the boundaries of Chimney Rock Village are as follows:
BEGINNING at a point in the Broad River (Rocky Broad River) at the Chimney Rock
Park entrance, the village boundary follows the Rocky Broad River westward to
the Henderson County boundary, then proceeds northward along the county border
between Rutherford County and Henderson County to the point where the Chimney
Rock Fire District begins; then follows the Chimney Rock Fire District boundary
to Cedar Knob and follow the Fire District line as it continues northward along
the Rutherford County and Buncombe County boundaries; at Shumont Mountain, the
Village boundary turns eastward, following the Chimney Rock Fire District and
proceeds to the Town of Lake Lure town limits line; then follows the Town of
Lake Lure Town limits across the Rocky Broad River, turning westward following
the Chimney Rock Park boundary and Lake Lure Town limits to the point of
beginning in the Rocky Broad River at the Chimney Rock Park entrance.
ARTICLE III. GOVERNING BODY.
   Section 3.1. Structure of Governing Body; Number of Members. The governing
body of Chimney Rock Village is the Village Council, which has five members.
   Section 3.2. Manner of Electing Council. The qualified voters of the entire
Village elect the members of the Council.
   Section 3.3. Term of Office of Council Members. Members of the Council are
elected to four-year terms. At the initial election in 1991, the three highest
vote getters shall be elected to four-year terms and the next two highest vote
getters shall be elected to two-year terms. In 1993 and quadrennially
thereafter, two members of the Council shall be elected for four-year terms. In
1995 and quadrennially thereafter, three members of the Council shall be
elected for four-year terms.
   Section 3.4. Election of Mayor; Term of Office. At the organizational
meeting of the Council following each election, the Council shall elect one of
its members to serve as Mayor. The Mayor serves as such at the pleasure of the
Council.
ARTICLE IV. ELECTIONS.
   Section 4.1 Conduct of Village Elections. Village officers shall be elected
on a nonpartisan basis and results determined by a plurality as provided in
G.S. § 163-292.
ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATION.
   Section 5.1 Village to Operate Under Mayor-Council Plan. The Village of
Chimney Rock operates under the Mayor-Council plan as provided in Part 3 of
Article 7 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
      Section. 2. Until the organizational meeting of the Village Council of
Chimney Rock following the 1991 municipal election, Barbara Meliski, Mike Keys,
Steve Gale, Randy Griffin, and Mark Piper shall serve as members of the Village
Council. Mark Piper is authorized to call the first meeting of the interim
governing body. The interim governing body shall, at its first meeting, elect
from among its members a chairman who shall have the powers of a mayor provided
by general law.
      Section. 3. From and after the effective date of this act, the citizens
and property in Chimney Rock Village shall be subject to municipal taxes levied
for the year beginning July 1, 1991, and for that purpose the Village shall
obtain from Rutherford County a record of property in the area herein
incorporated which was listed for taxes as of January 1, 1991. The Village may
adopt a budget ordinance for fiscal year 1991-92 without following the
timetable in the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, but shall
follow the sequence of actions in the spirit of the act insofar as is
practical. For fiscal year 1991-92, ad valorem taxes may be paid at par or face
amount within 90 days of adoption of the budget ordinance, and thereafter in
accordance with the schedule in G.S. § 105-360 as if the taxes had been due and
payable on September 1, 1991.
      Section. 4. This act is effective upon ratification.
In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 28th day of
June, 1991.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   VILLAGE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
   
10.19   Conflict with other laws
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Chimney Rock Village shall be
designated as the Code of Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of Chimney Rock
Village, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Rutherford, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to 3 or more persons
or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of persons
or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the village.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIALS, BOARDS, and COMMISSIONS. Whenever reference is made to these
by title only, they shall be deemed to refer to the officials, boards and
commissions of Chimney Rock Village.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this village.
      OR and AND.  OR may be read AND and AND may be read OR if the sense
requires it.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the village and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      VILLAGE, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. Chimney Rock Village, in
Rutherford County, North Carolina, except as otherwise provided.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in 1 section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this village for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded. The time within which an act is to be done
shall be done as defined in the “computation of time” definition as listed in §
10.05.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the village or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the
village or any evidence of the village’s indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the village;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any village officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the village;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the village;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the
village;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the village not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
village; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are re-adopted as a new code by the village.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as follows:
....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the village, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history
by “(2002 Code, §       ).” The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.19 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS.
   Whenever the regulations of this code conflict with the requirements of
another statute, the more restrictive shall govern.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   The provisions of this code may be enforced by one, all, or a combination of
the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
   (A)   Violation a misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided herein, each
violation of this code shall constitute a misdemeanor, except as otherwise
provided by statute, and violations of such provisions of this code shall be
punished by fine or imprisonment as provided by law. Each day any violation of
this code shall continue shall constitute a separate offense, except as may be
specifically provided.
   (B)   Violation as subject to a civil penalty.
      (1)   Violations of this code shall constitute either a misdemeanor or,
at the election of the village, shall subject the offender to a civil penalty
upon the issuance of a citation for the violation as hereinafter provided.
      (2)   The civil penalty, if not paid to village within 15 days of the
issuance of a citation, may be recovered by the village in a civil action in
the nature of debt.
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision of this code,
civil penalties shall be in the amount of $50 for each violation, and each day
any single violation continues shall be a separate violation.
   (C)   General Court of Justice as court of competent jurisdiction.  
      (1)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
this code may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   In such case, the General Court of Justice shall have jurisdiction
to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it shall not be a defense to
the application of the village for equitable relief that there is an adequate
remedy at law.
   (D)    Injunction and order of abatement. In addition to the civil penalties
set out above, any provision of this code that makes unlawful a condition
existing upon or a use made of real property may be enforced by injunction and
order of abatement by the General Court of Justice.
      (1)   When a violation of such a provision occurs, the village may apply
to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a mandatory or
prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the defendant to
correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of the property.
The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and rules governing
civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in general, and Rule
65 in particular.
      (2)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures
on the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the applicable village
code.
         (a)   If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction
or with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she
may be cited for contempt, and the Village may execute the order of abatement.
         (b)   The village shall have a lien on the property for the cost of
executing an order of abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and materialman's
lien.
         (c)   The defendant may secure cancellation of an order of abatement
by paying all costs of the proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with
the order.
         (d)   The bond shall be given with sureties approved by the clerk of
superior court in an amount approved by the judge before whom the matter is
heard, and shall be conditioned on the defendant's full compliance with the
terms of the order of abatement within a time fixed by the judicial order.
         (e)   Cancellation of an order of abatement shall not suspend or
cancel an injunction issued in conjunction therewith.
   (E)   Warning citation. Upon determination of a violation of any section of
this code, the penalty for which is a civil penalty, the Zoning Administrator
shall cause a warning citation to be issued to the violator.
      (1)   Such warning citation shall set out the nature of the violation,
the section violated, the date of the violation, and shall contain an order to
immediately cease the violation.
      (2)   If the violation is in the nature of an infraction for which an
order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, a reasonable
period of time must be stated in which the violation must be abated.
      (3)   The warning citation shall specify that a second citation shall
incur a civil penalty, together with costs, and attorney fees.
   (F)   Appeal from a warning citation.
      (1)   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within 10 days
from the date of the warning citation to the Office of the Zoning Administrator
to be placed on the agenda of the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   Except in any case where the ordinance violated, which is the
subject of the warning citation, specifically grants to the Board of Adjustment
other powers in considering appeals, and such appeal is applied for, the Board
of Adjustment, in considering appeals of warning citations, shall have the
power only in the manner of administrative review and interpretation where it
is alleged that the Zoning Administrator has made an error in the application
of this code, or in the factual situation as it relates to the application of
the code, or both.
   (G)   Amending a warning citation to provide additional time. Where the
Zoning Administrator determines that the period of time stated in the original
warning citation is not sufficient for abatement, based upon the work required
or a schedule agreed upon with the violator for abatement, the Zoning
Administrator may amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
   (H)   Civil citation.  Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning
citation, a civil citation shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator, and
either served directly in person on the violator, his or her duly designated
agent, or registered agent if a corporation, or posted in the United States
mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of the
violator, as contained in the records of village or obtained from the violator
at the time of issuance of the warning citation.
      (1)   The violator shall be deemed to have been served upon the mailing
of the citation.
      (2)   The citation shall direct the violator to appear before the Village
Finance Department, or designee, within 15 days of the date of the citation, or
alternatively to pay the citation by mail.
      (3)   The violation for which the citation is issued must have been
corrected by the time the citation is paid; otherwise, further citations shall
be issued.
      (4)   Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues until
the prohibited activity is ceased or abated.
      (5)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of
its issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the village may institute
a civil action in the nature of debt, in the appropriate division of the North
Carolina General Court of Justice, of the collection of the penalty, costs,
attorney fees, and such other relief as permitted by law.
(Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
CHAPTER 11: VILLAGE STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Boundaries
§ 11.01 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The boundaries are delineated on the face of a map entitled,
“Extraterritorial Jurisdiction Map, Village of Chimney Rock, North Carolina,”
which attached to the ordinance codified herein and is hereby adopted by
reference. The boundaries of the extraterritorial jurisdiction are further
described as follows:
      (1)   Portions of the following below noted parcels lying within
unincorporated Rutherford County being south and west of the village boundary
of Chimney Rock Village, wherein the southerly boundaries of the portion of the
noted parcels are no greater than 5,280 feet from the centerline of the Rocky
Broad River, the centerline constituting the village boundary of Chimney Rock
Village.
      (2)   The portions of the noted parcel are presently within
unincorporated Rutherford County and directly abut the municipal limits of
Chimney Rock Village.
      (3)   This description is a general description and should not be
construed to be an engineering accurate survey.
      (4)   The following parcels, portions of which are lying within
unincorporated Rutherford County and directly abutting the village boundary of
Chimney Rock Village, are affected by this chapter:
Map Number Block Number Lot Number
           Folio Number
Map Number Block Number Lot Number
           Folio Number
522        1            33A
           62314433084
522        1            34
           62319523054
522        1            34A
           62319616793
522        1            37A
           62320814080
522        1            38
           62320911649
522        1            40
           62320905727
522        1            41
           63317007577
 
   (B)   The foregoing boundary description in division (A) above is based upon
aerial photographs, land maps, U.S.G.S. maps and property boundaries from the
Rutherford County Tax Maps that include the Village of Chimney Rock and
unincorporated Rutherford County, and natural and manmade geographical features
identifiable on the ground.
   (C)   The official copy of this section and map shall be on record in the
office of the Village Clerk for public inspection during normal business hours.
The Village Clerk shall cause a certified copy of this chapter and map and any
subsequent amendments to be recorded in the offices of the Register of Deeds of
Rutherford County.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2002; Am. Ord. passed 6-20-2003)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
31.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
      33.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Governing body
   
30.02   Powers and duties
   
30.03   Mayor; duties
   
30.04   Mayor Pro Tem
Officers and Employees
   
30.20   Village Clerk; duties
   
30.21   Village Attorney
   
30.22   Finance Officer
   
30.23   Other officers and employees
Meetings
   
30.40   Regular meetings; time and place
   
30.41   Special meetings
   
30.42   Adjourned meetings
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)    The governing body of the village shall consist of 5 Council members,
who will at the organizational meeting after every municipal election, select
from among themselves 1 Council member to serve as the Mayor and another to
serve as the Mayor Pro Tem. The governing body shall be charged with the
general government and administration of the affairs of the village.
   (B)   The Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem shall serve at the pleasure of the
majority of the Council or until replaced or re-elected at the organizational
meeting of the Council following a general municipal election.
(2002 Code, Ch. 20, § 20.01)
Statutory reference:
   Council to organize municipal government, see G.S. § 160A-146
   House Bill 642; “An Act to Incorporate Chimney Rock Village in Rutherford
County, North Carolina.” (Charter of Chimney Rock Village), June 28, 1991
§ 30.02 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the governing body shall be as set out in the
General Statutes of North Carolina, the Village Charter and the ordinances of
the village.
(2002 Code, Ch. 20, § 20.02)
§ 30.03 MAYOR; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the village, and as such,
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the village's business;
   (B)   Preside over the meeting of the Village Council;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the Council;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction and with the consent of the Council;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Council concerning the affairs of the
village, as deemed necessary or required by municipal statutes;
   (F)   Represent the village at ceremonies and other official occasions;
   (G)   Perform other duties as authorized by the General Statutes of North
Carolina, the Village Charter and this Code of Ordinances; and
   (H)   Shall serve as Village Budget Officer, and perform all the duties as
such, unless this title and duties are delegated by the Mayor, with the consent
of Council or by the Council.
(2002 Code, Ch. 20, § 20.03)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.04 MAYOR PRO TEM.
   The Mayor Pro Tem shall perform all the duties of the Mayor in the Mayor's
absence or disability.
(2002 Code, Ch. 20, § 20.04)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tem, see G.S. § 160A-70
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.20 VILLAGE CLERK; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Council shall appoint a Village Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to:
      (1)   Act as Secretary to the Council;
      (2)   Keep a true record of all the proceedings of the Council;
      (3)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided
for this purpose;
      (4)   Act as custodian for all the books, papers, records and journals of
the Council and village;
      (5)   Perform all other duties as may be required by law or by the
Council;
(2002 Code, Ch. 21, § 21.01)
Statutory references:
   Duties of the Clerk specified, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Minutes to be kept, see G.S. § 160A-72
§ 30.21 VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   The Council shall appoint a Village Attorney whose duties shall be to:
   (A)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity to
which the village may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which
may be brought against, or by, any officer of the village, or in the capacity
of the person as an officer of the village;
   (B)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the village;
   (C)   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
   (D)   Draft or review any contract, lease or other document or instrument to
which the village may be a party, and approve all ordinances and resolutions of
the Village Council as to form;
   (E)   At the request of the Council, draft ordinances covering any subjects
within the power of the village;
   (F)   Attend all meetings of the Council, or upon request, attend any
special meetings of the Council; and
   (G)   Perform any other duties required by G.S. § 160A-173 and other laws
and ordinances.
(2002 Code, Ch. 21, § 21.02)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 30.22 FINANCE OFFICER.
   The Council shall provide for the appointment of a Finance Officer, whose
duties shall be to:
   (A)   Keep the books and accounts of the village;
   (B)   Receive and disburse all monies of the village as required by state
law and according to the internal disbursement procedures of the village;
   (C)   Countersign, only when inappropriate for Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem to
countersign or when 1 of the required individuals (Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem) are
unavailable;
   (D)   Pre-audit all checks, drafts, contracts, purchase orders, or other
documents obligating village funds and sign the documents when appropriate;
   (E)   Report to the Council concerning the finances of the village, as the
Council may require;
   (F)   Maintain all records of the bonded debt of the village and maintain
sinking funds;
   (G)   Supervise the investment of all idle funds; and
   (H)   Perform other duties assigned by the General Statutes, the Village
Charter or by the Village Council.
(2002 Code, Ch. 21, § 21.04)
Statutory references:
   Duties of the Finance Officer, see G.S. § 159-25
   Fiscal Control Act, see G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.
§ 30.23 OTHER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The other officers and employees as are deemed necessary shall be
appointed by the Council at the first meeting after each general municipal
election.
   (B)   All officers and employees shall serve at the pleasure of the Council
and shall receive compensation as from time to time may be prescribed by the
Council.
(2002 Code, Ch. 21, § 21.05)
MEETINGS
§ 30.40 REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   The regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the third Tuesday of
each month at 7:30 p.m. at the Chimney Rock Volunteer Fire Department, unless
otherwise designated by the Council.
(2002 Code, Ch. 20, § 10.15)
Statutory references:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Voting, see G.S. § 160A-75
§ 30.41 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Council may be held in accordance to the procedures
set out in the applicable General Statutes.
(2002 Code, Ch. 20, § 20.16)
Statutory references:
   Special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.42 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any meeting of the Council may be continued or adjourned from day to day, or
for more than 1 day.
(2002 Code, Ch. 20, § 20.17)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Board
   
31.01   Creation
   
31.02   Composition and vacancies
   
31.03   Organization, rules, meetings, and records
   
31.04   Expenditures, incurring indebtedness, donations
   
31.05   Powers and duties
PLANNING BOARD
§ 31.01 CREATION.
   The Village Council has established a Planning Board under the authority
granted by the G.S. § 160A-361. The Council now wishes to change certain
aspects of the Planning Board as follows.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
§ 31.02 COMPOSITION AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board, hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, shall
consist of 5 members.
      (1)   Four of the 5 members of the Board must be either a resident of or
a property owner within the village limits and there may be no more than 1
member that may serve as an at- large member representing properties adjacent
to the village limits.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall not serve as a voting member of
the Planning Board.
         (b)   Village Council members currently serving their terms may not
simultaneously serve as a member of the Planning Board.
         (c)   If no resident or landowner is available to serve on the Board,
then the Council may appoint 1 person to serve on the Board as the at-large
member. There may never be more than 1 at-large member serving on the Board
simultaneously.
      (2)   As the terms of existing members expire, Village Council may re-
appoint or the Village Council may appoint new members for a staggered term of
3 years. Terms shall be divided as:
         (a)   Two members serve 3 years concurrent;
         (b)   Two other members shall serve different concurrent terms; and
         (c)   One member will serve a different concurrent term.
   (B)   In the event of a vacancy on the Board, the Village Council shall
appoint a new member to fill the unexpired term of the vacant position.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed 12-16-2014)
§ 31.03 ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS, AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Board shall schedule at least 1 organizational meeting per year.
The meeting shall be held during the month of June. All additional meetings
shall be held by call of the Chairperson, in the Chairperson’s absence, by the
Vice Chairperson. All of its meetings shall be open to the public in accordance
with the North Carolina General Statutes.
(Ord. passed 5-24-2004)
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall meet and elect a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson from among its regular members, both of whom shall serve for terms
of 1 year or until re-elected or until their successors are elected. The Board
shall appoint a Secretary, who may be an employee of the village or a member of
the Board, and who shall hold office during the term of the Chairperson and/or
until a successor Secretary shall have been appointed. The Board may create and
fill other offices as it may determine.
      (2)   The Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business
which are consistent with this subchapter as well as the General Statutes of
the State of North Carolina, and shall keep a record of its members’
attendance, and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations,
which record shall be a public record. The Board shall schedule an annual
meeting in June of each year and other meetings when necessary. All of its
meetings shall be open to the public. There shall be a quorum of 3 Board
members for the purpose of taking any official action required by this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed 12-16-2014)
§ 31.04 EXPENDITURES, INCURRING INDEBTEDNESS, DONATIONS.
   The expenditures of the Board, exclusive of gifts or grants, shall be within
the amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Village Council, and no
indebtedness for which the village shall be liable shall be contracted or
incurred by the Board unless an appropriation is made by the Village Council
for the purpose, as authorized by law, and then only to the extent of the
appropriation. The Board shall have the right to accept gifts and donations for
the exercise of its functions, and may expend the money received from the gifts
and donations in a manner which in the judgment of the Board is consistent with
the best interest of the planning program.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
§ 31.05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board shall have the power to perform the following duties:
   (A)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   (C)   Prepare plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative procedures
and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and efficient manner;
   (E)   Advise the Village Council concerning the use and amendment of the
means for carrying out plans;
   (F)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Village Council may direct;
   (G)   The Planning Board shall work with and coordinate with other boards
and advisory groups as directed by the Village Council; and
   (H)   Perform any other related duties that the Village Council may direct.
(Ord. passed 9-21-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
32.01   Procedure for disbursement
   
32.02   Annual budget preparation
§ 32.01 PROCEDURE FOR DISBURSEMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
being G.S. Chapter 159, Article III., no bill or claim against the village may
be paid unless it has been approved by the officer or employee responsible for
the function or agency to which the expense is charged. No check or draft of
the village shall be valid unless it bears on its face the certificate of the
Clerk as follows: “This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act of North Carolina.”
   (B)   No contract, agreement, or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the Clerk's certificate as follows: “This instrument has been pre-audited
in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act of
North Carolina.”
(2002 Code, Ch. 22, § 22.01)
Statutory reference:
   Pre-audit of disbursements required, see G.S. § 159-28
§ 32.02 ANNUAL BUDGET PREPARATION.
   (A)   The Finance Officer will forward to the Budget Officer all required
financial information as required or necessary for the preparation of the
Village Budget. The Budget Officer is responsible for the preparation and
presentation of the Village Budget annually according to the general guidelines
prescribed both in the General Statutes and the policies of the Local
Government Commission.
   (B)   The Mayor shall serve as the Village Budget Officer unless these
duties are delegated by the prescribed procedures of this code.
(2002 Code, Ch. 22, § 22.02)
Cross-reference:
   Mayor; duties, see §
30.03(H)
CHAPTER 33: CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
   
33.01   When emergency is deemed to exist
   
33.02   Declaration of; state of emergency and/or curfew
   
33.03   Acts prohibited; emergency
   
33.04   Termination
   
33.05   Title
   
33.06   Violations of regulations
   
33.07   Ordinance, etc. suspended
   
33.08   Organization; appointments
   
33.09   Liabilities
   
33.10   Fee schedule for cost recovery of handling hazardous materials
emergencies
Statutory reference:
   Authority to enact ordinances dealing with states of emergency, G.S. § 14-
288.12
   State Emergency Management Act, G.S. Ch. 166A
   Municipalities authority to maintain emergency management agencies subject
to coordination by county, G.S. § 166A-7(b)
   Local emergency authorizations, G.S. § 166A-8
§ 33.01 WHEN EMERGENCY IS DEEMED TO EXIST.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar situation for
any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to maintain public
order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety, or property.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.02 DECLARATION OF; STATE OF EMERGENCY AND/OR CURFEW.
   (A)    In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
village, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor of the
village is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of emergency, and, in
order more effectively to protect the lives, safety and property of people
within the village, to define and impose a curfew applicable to all persons
within the jurisdiction of the village.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit the application
of a curfew to any area specifically designated and described within the
village and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from the
curfew police officers, firefighters, doctors, nurses, and such other classes
of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public order and
immediately necessary to serve the safety, health, and welfare needs of the
people within the village.
   (C)   The Mayor will, or any member of the Village Council may request that,
as soon as safe and possible, to convene the majority of Council in person or
by electronic means and by majority will confirm the state of emergency, may
determine the time frame for the continuation of the declaration, may review
scope of and/or determine the conclusion of the state of emergency.
   (D)   If the Mayor is unavailable, the Mayor Pro Tem shall have the same
rights vested in the Mayor as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.03 ACTS PROHIBITED; EMERGENCY.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew has
been imposed, it shall be unlawful for anyone subject to that curfew: to be or
travel upon any public street, alley, or roadway, or upon public property,
unless in search of medical assistance, food, or other commodity or service
necessary to sustain the wellbeing of self or family or some member thereof.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.04 TERMINATION.
   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of a state of emergency and curfew as soon
as circumstances warrant, or by majority vote of the Village Council.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.05 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the
"Emergency Management Ordinance for the Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina."
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.06 VIOLATIONS OF REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the provisions of this
chapter or of the regulations or plans issued pursuant of the authority
contained herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the
emergency management organization as herein defined in the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter or any regulations or plan issued thereunder.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.07 ORDINANCE, ETC. SUSPENDED.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.08 ORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENTS.
   In the event a state of emergency is called, the village will fall under the
Rutherford County Government Emergency Operation Plan or other such plans as
determined appropriate for the village by the Village Council.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.09 LIABILITIES.
   (A)   This chapter is an exercise by the village of its governmental
functions of the protection of the public peace, health, and safety, and
neither the village nor agents and representatives of same, or any individual,
receiver, firm partnership, corporation, association or trustee, or any of the
agents thereof in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter, shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons
or property as the result of said activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real or personal property who, under
this chapter, voluntarily or involuntarily, knowingly or unknowingly, with or
without compensation, grants a license or privilege or otherwise permits or
allows the designation or use of the whole or any part or parts of such real or
personal property for the purpose of sheltering, protecting, safeguarding or
aiding in any way persons shall, together with the successors in interest, if
any, not be civilly liable for the death of or injury to any person or the loss
of or damage to the property of any persons here such death, injury, loss or
damage resulted from through or because of the use of the said real or personal
property for any of the above purposes.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
§ 33.10 FEE SCHEDULE FOR COST RECOVERY OF HANDLING HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The duties of emergency management agencies and
fire department include controlling and eliminating hazardous material
emergencies in the village. The EMA, fire departments have the authority to
summarily remove, abate or remedy hazardous material emergencies in the village
that are dangerous or prejudicial to the public health and/or public safety.
These actions shall include on-site or off-site areas where hazardous materials
are handled, produced, stored or transported. The expense of controlling and
eliminating the hazardous material that is the subject of the emergency shall
be borne by the owner or by the person or entity in possession of the hazardous
material at the time of the emergency if the owner cannot be readily
determined. Nothing herein shall prejudice the owner or party in possession
from seeking recovery for the charges incurred herein from another party; but
regardless of rights of action against others, the owner or party in
possession, whichever the case may be, shall promptly pay the charges
referenced herein.
   (B)   Charges.
      (1)   EMA. Emergency management agency or a designated representative of
the local governing body shall have the authority to make a charge for
administration services, including travel associated with hazardous material
cleanup. Charges could include but are not limited to highway spills, unlawful
hazardous dump cleanup and emergency evacuation. Charges shall be based on an
hourly rate adopted and reflected in the agencies' annual budget by the Village
Commissioners for the fiscal year. Charges for materials used in cleanup such
as absorbents and containment material shall be the actual replacement cost.
      (2)   Other village services. If other village services such as
equipment, etc., are contracted for, these will be paid at cost, comparable to
private contract costs. These village services are for emergency containment
only and not for cleanup and disposal.
   (C)   Billing. The agency rendering the service shall be responsible for all
billing and collection procedures. The Chimney Rock Village Billing Department
will bill for all village services.
   (D)   Definition of hazardous material. Hazardous material is defined as
solid, liquid or gaseous material, or the combination of thereof, which because
of the quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious
characteristics may: (a) cause or significantly contribute to an increase in
mortality or an increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating illness; or
(b) pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
(Ord. passed 5-19-2020)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE; COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Monthly rates and charges
Water Systems
   
50.15   Intent and purpose
   
50.16   Definitions
   
50.17   Application
   
50.18   Declaration of water shortage or water shortage emergency
   
50.19   Conservation measures
   
50.20   Basis for conservation measures
   
50.21   Enforcement
   
50.22   Water users; accept provisions of subchapter
Wellhead Protection
   
50.40   Purpose
   
50.41   Scope
   
50.42   Definitions
   
50.43   Establishment and delineation of Wellhead Protection District
   
50.44   District boundary disputes
   
50.45   Use regulations
   
50.46   Plan submission and approval for new and expanding structures or uses
   
50.47   Administration and enforcement
   
50.48   Table; Mountain and Inner Piedmont
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Water Shortage Response Plan, see
Chapter 97
   Zoning Code, see
Chapter 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 MONTHLY RATES AND CHARGES.
   Base rate of $30 per month, plus:
 
Gallons Per Month Rates
0 to 5,000        $2.50 per 1,000 gallons
5,001 to 10,000   $3.00 per 1,000 gallons
Over 10,000       $4.00 per 1,000 gallons
 
(Ord. passed 7-1-2005)
WATER SYSTEMS
§ 50.15 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to protect the water
resources of Chimney Rock Village from the harmful effects of over-utilization
during periods of water shortage and to allocate available water supplies by
implementing a water shortage plan.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(a)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 50.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   WATER SHORTAGE CONDITION. When sufficient water is not available to meet
present or anticipated need of persons using the water resource, or when
conditions are such as to require temporary reduction in total water usage
within a particular area to protect the water resource from serious harm. A
water shortage usually occurs due to drought.
   WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY. That condition when it is necessary to protect the
public health, safety or welfare; or to protect a public water supply or other
water resource.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(b)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 50.17 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all persons using the water
resource within the geographical service areas subject to a finding of a water
shortage condition or water shortage emergency, as determined by the Chimney
Rock Village Council.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(c)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 50.18 DECLARATION OF WATER SHORTAGE OR WATER SHORTAGE EMERGENCY.
   Whenever the Chimney Rock Village Council declares a water shortage
condition or a water shortage emergency within all or any part of Chimney Rock
Village, the Council shall act by resolution to declare the water shortage
condition or emergency. The resolution shall specify all water use restrictions
or other measures and shall be subject to enforcement as provided herein.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(d)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 50.19 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Upon the determination that a water shortage exists, the Council may order
the restriction or curtailment of the use of water to the extent necessary to
alleviate the water shortage condition and may implement any or all of the
following:
   (A)   The sprinkling, watering or irrigating of any plant material,
including the specification of certain days, hours or periods of time as well
as place limitations on when plant material may be watered;
   (B)   The washing of vehicles, mobile homes, campers, boats or any other
type of mobile equipment;
   (C)   The washing of sidewalks, driveways, exterior portions of buildings or
any other outdoor surface;
   (D)   The operation of any outdoor ornamental fountain or any other
structure without a recycling system;
   (E)   The filling of swimming pools and the filling of ponds;
   (F)   The escape of water through defective plumbing which means to
knowingly allow water to escape through a system that is in disrepair;
   (G)   The limitation by hotels, motels and restaurants to the use of water
to serve a customer in a restaurant unless requested by the customer;
   (H)   The limitation on the use of water from a hydrant for any other
purpose than firefighting; and
   (I)   Other restrictions that may be required by the Council, including a
restriction on applications to begin a new use or modify an existing use.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(e)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 50.20 BASIS FOR CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   The following provisions shall be considered as the basis for conservation
measures:
   (A)   The severity of the drought;
   (B)   The extent that the public water system is not supplying the demand of
the service area; and
   (C)   The availability of potable water.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(f)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 50.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Chimney Rock Village Water
Administrator, the Mayor or his or her designee.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(g)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 50.22 WATER USERS; ACCEPT PROVISIONS OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No water service shall be furnished to any person unless the person agrees
to accept all provisions of this subchapter. The acceptance of water service
shall be in itself the acceptance of these provisions.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(i)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
WELLHEAD PROTECTION
§ 50.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Wellhead Protection Overlay District is to:
   (A)   Promote the health, safety and general welfare of the community by
ensuring an adequate quality and quantity of drinking water for the residents,
institutions and businesses of Chimney Rock Village;
   (B)   Preserve and protect the public municipal water supply for Chimney
Rock Village;
   (C)   Conserve the natural resources of the village; and
   (D)   Prevent temporary and permanent contamination of the environment.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.41 SCOPE.
   The Wellhead Protection District is an overlay district superimposed on the
zoning districts. This overlay district shall apply to all new construction,
reconstruction or expansion of existing buildings and new or expanded uses.
Applicable activities or uses in a portion of 1 of the underlying zoning
districts which fall within the Wellhead Protection District must additionally
comply with the requirements of this district. Uses that are prohibited in the
underlying zoning districts shall not be permitted in the Wellhead Protection
District.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.42 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AQUIFER. A water bearing geologic formation or formations that will yield
water in a usable quantity, to wells and/or springs.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance of mixture of physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics posing a significant, actual or potential hazard to
water supplies or other hazards to human health if the substance or mixture
were discharged to land or water of the village. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES include
all REGULATED SUBSTANCES.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Material or structure on, above or below the ground
that does not allow precipitation or surface water to penetrate directly into
the soil.
   POTABLE WATER. Water that is intended for drinking, culinary and domestic
purposes, subject to compliance with county, state or federal drinking water
standards.
   RECHARGE AREA. An area that collects precipitation or surface water and
carries it to an aquifer.
   REGULATED SUBSTANCE.  Regulated substances are those defined in the
Superfund Amendments and Re-authorization Act (SARA) in 42 U.S.C. § 9601(14)
except that REGULATED SUBSTANCES shall not include hazardous air pollutants
referenced therein.
   RESTRICTED USE PESTICIDE. All those pesticides which have been designated as
such by the North Carolina Pesticides Board, as authorized in G.S. § 143-440.
   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK or UST.  Any 1 or combination of tanks (including
underground pipes connected thereto) that is used to contain an accumulation of
UST regulated substances, and the volume of which (including the volume of
underground pipes connected thereto) is 10% or more beneath the surface of the
ground. This term does not include any:
      (1)   Septic tank;
      (2)   Surface impoundment, pit, pond or lagoon;
      (3)   Stormwater or wastewater collection system;
      (4)   Flow-through process tank;
      (5)   Storage tank situated in an underground area (such as a basement,
cellar, and the like) if the storage tank is situated upon or above the surface
of the floor;
      (6)   Farm or residential tank of 1,000 gallons or less capacity used for
storing motor fuel for noncommercial purposes; or
      (7)   Tank used for storing heating oil or fuel for consumptive use on
the premises where stored.
   WELLHEAD. The specific location of a well (a hole or shaft dug or drilled to
obtain water) and/or any structure built over or extending from a well.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA. The surface and subsurface area surrounding a
water well or wellfield, supplying a public water system, through which
contaminants are reasonably likely to move toward and reach the water well or
wellfield. (Safe Drinking Water Act)
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.43 ESTABLISHMENT AND DELINEATION OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION DISTRICT.
   (A)   For the purposes of this district, there are hereby established within
the village certain wellhead protection areas, consisting of aquifers or
recharge areas which are delineated on a map. This map is entitled “Wellhead
Protection Districts - Chimney Rock Village”. This map is hereby made a part of
the Code of Ordinances and is on file in the office of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   The Wellhead Protection Area for Well Number 1 shall be an area with a
radius of 1,012 feet commencing from the wellhead.
   (C)   The Wellhead Protection Areas were delineated using the Calculated
Fixed Radius (CFR) method. The CFR method uses well yield, expressed as the
pumping rate, and the recharge rate for the area to determine the radius of the
Wellhead Protection Area around each well. The table entitled “Mountain and
Inner Piedmont” shall be included as part of this subchapter.
   (D)   The Wellhead Protection Areas may be modified from time to time, when
new wells are drilled and based on the recommendation of the Zoning
Administrator. Any modifications to these areas shall be made to the Wellhead
Protection Districts official map and passed by a resolution of the Village
Council.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.44 DISTRICT BOUNDARY DISPUTES.
   (A)   If the location of the district boundary in relation to a particular
parcel is in doubt, resolution of boundary disputes shall be through a special
permit application to the Board of Adjustment. Any application for a special
permit for this purpose shall be accompanied by adequate documentation.
   (B)   The burden of proof shall be upon the owner(s) of the land in question
to show where the bounds should properly be located. At the request of the
owner(s), the village may engage a professional engineer (civil or sanitary),
hydrologist, geologist or soil scientist to determine more accurately the
boundaries of the district with respect to individual parcels of land, and may
charge the owner for all or part of the cost of the investigation.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.45 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A) Permitted uses. The permitted uses, bulk and yard requirements within
the Wellhead Protection District shall be those of the underlying zoning
district. Site plans submitted for permitted and conditional uses shall include
additional details as outlined in §
50.46(A) below.
   (B)   Prohibited uses. The following uses and structures which pose known
groundwater contamination threats are specifically prohibited, except in
accordance with §
50.46(B) below:
      (1)   Use or production of hazardous substances in industrial,
processing, manufacturing or commercial operations;
      (2)   Any waste treatment or disposal activity requiring a permit under
any of the following state regulations:
         (a)   15A N.C.A.C. 13B, Solid Waste Management Permits, Primarily
Landfills;
         (b)   15A N.C.A.C. 13A, Hazardous Waste Management Permits;
         (c)   15A N.C.A.C. I E, Construction and Operation of an Oil Refining
Facility;
         (d)   15A N.C.A.C. 5B, Mining Permit;
         (e)   15A N.C.A.C. 513, Permit to Drill Exploratory Oil or Gas Well;
         (f)   15A N.C.A.C. 2H, Pretreatment Permit; and
         (g)   15A N.C.A.C. 2H.0202, Waste Not Discharged to Surface Waters,
including waste lagoons, spray and infiltration systems, and the land
application and subsurface disposal of wastes, but excluding sewer system
extension lines.
      (3)   Animal feed lots;
      (4)   Automobile junkyards;
      (5)   Battery recycling and reprocessing;
      (6)   Earth removal, consisting of the removal of soil, loam, sand,
gravel or any other earth material to within 6 feet of historical high
groundwater as determined from monitoring wells and historical water table
fluctuation data compiled by the U.S. Geological Survey, except for excavations
for building foundations, roads or utility works;
      (7)   Industrial and commercial uses which discharge processed wastewater
on-site;
      (8)   Manufacturing and production of paving, roofing and other
construction materials, using asphalt-and petroleum-based coating and
preserving materials;
      (9)   Primary and secondary metal industries that manufacture, produce,
smelt or refine ferrous and non-ferrous metals;
      (10)   Retail gas stations and truck stops;
      (11)   Commercial septic tanks, or other septic tanks not utilized for
domestic waste, unless approved by the Chimney Rock Village Engineer and all
other appropriate regulatory agencies;
      (12)   Storage of animal manure unless covered or contained in accordance
with the specifications of the Unites States Soil Conservation Service;
      (13)   Storage or application of restricted use pesticides;
      (14)   Wood-preserving operations using formulations of Chrome-Copper-
Arsenate (CCC), penthachlorophenol (PENTA), creosote and related chemicals; and
      (15)   Underground storage tanks, unless equipped with secondary
containment structures.
   (C)   Use list not exhaustive. The uses prohibited by this district
represent the state of present knowledge and most common description of the
uses. As other polluting uses are discovered, or other terms of description
become necessary, these shall be added to the list of uses prohibited by this
district.
   (D)   Changing technology.  The uses prohibited by this district are
prohibited based upon the combined pollution experience of many individual
uses, and the technology generally employed by that class of uses, that causes
the uses as a class to be groundwater pollution risks. As the technology of
identified uses classes changes to non-risk materials or methods, upon petition
from such a use, and after conferring with expert geological and other opinion,
it is the intention to delete uses from the prohibited list, or allow them
conditionally, those which demonstrate convincingly that they no longer pose a
pollution hazard.
   (E)   Limited exemptions. The following activities or uses are exempt from
the provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   The transportation of any hazardous substance through a Wellhead
Protection Overlay District provided the transporting vehicle is in transit;
      (2)   The use of any hazardous substance solely as fuel in a vehicle fuel
tank or as lubricant;
      (3)   Retail sales establishments that store and handle hazardous
substances for resale in then unopened containers;
      (4)   Office supplies that are used solely for the operation of on-site
administrative offices, provided the supplies are prepackaged in a form ready
for use; and
      (5)   Hazardous substances which are packaged for personal or household
use and present in the same form and concentration as packaged for use by the
general public. The aggregate inventory of the substances shall not exceed 106
gallons or 800 pounds at any time.
   (F)   Requirements for existing prohibited uses. All uses and structures
specifically prohibited in §
50.45(B) may continue beyond the effective date of this subchapter only if,
within 90 days after the effective date of this subchapter, the Village Council
approves an Operating and Monitoring Plan for each prohibited use or structure.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.46 PLAN SUBMISSION AND APPROVAL FOR NEW AND EXPANDING STRUCTURES OR USES.
   (A)   Site plan requirements. In addition to the requirements specified in §
50.46(F), the following materials or information shall be provided on the site
plan when it is submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review:
      (1)   The location of public water supply wells within 1,000 feet of the
site;
      (2)   The location of adjacent (within 200 feet of a property line)
private drinking water supply wells;
      (3)   A complete list of the types and volumes of all hazardous
substances (including fuels) used,
stored, processed, handled or disposed, other than those volumes and types
associated with normal household use;
      (4)   Description of types of wastes generated and method of disposal
including: solid wastes, hazardous wastes, sewage and non-sewage wastewater
discharges; and
      (5)   Provisions for management of stormwater runoff.
   (B)   Operating and monitoring plan requirements. At a minimum, an Operating
and Monitoring Plan (or “Plan”) shall contain the following elements, for
approval by the Village Council:
      (1)   General information.
         (a)   Name, title and address of owner of the land on which the
prohibited use or structure is located;
         (b)   Name, title and address of the operator, authorized agent or
other responsible person if different from the owner of the land;
         (c)   Name of the business;
         (d)   Address of the prohibited use or structure;
         (e)   Type of facility, operation or site; and
         (f)   Size of the prohibited use or structure, including, where
applicable, lot acreage, square footage of any buildings, number of employees,
and the like.
      (2)   Operating or performance standards.
         (a)   The plan must specify under what standards the prohibited
operation, facility or site will be operated or performed. These standards must
ensure that all possible efforts are made to reduce the likelihood of
contamination of the groundwater supply.
         (b)   If any state or federally promulgated environmental protection
standards exist for a particular site, industry, business, facility or
operation, then the plan must specify what those standards are, and how they
will be implemented.
         (c)   If no state or federally promulgated standards exist, or in
addition to the standards, the plan must indicate what the most current Best
Management Practices (BMP) are for that particular site, industry, business,
facility or operation and how those Best Management Practices will be
implemented.
      (3)   Monitoring provisions.
         (a)   If state or federal laws, rules or regulations require
groundwater monitoring by a particular site, industry, business, facility or
operation, then the plan must specify what those requirements are and how they
will be implemented.
         (b)   If no state or federal laws, rules or regulations require
groundwater monitoring by a particular site, industry, business, facility, or
operation, then the plan must specify by whom, by what method, where and how
frequently the groundwater under the property will be monitored.
      (4)   Reporting schedule.
         (a)   The owner/operator of any prohibited use or structure shall
submit a report to the Zoning Administrator annually summarizing the monitoring
results for the year, including any contamination that may have occurred and
the remedies that were undertaken to protect the groundwater.
         (b)   No annual report is required for septic tanks or impervious
surfaces located within Wellhead Protection Overlay Districts. These uses will
be allowed to continue indefinitely, although no future expansion will be
allowed, provided that the other requirements of this section are met.
      (5)   Performance bond. The owner/operator of any prohibited use or
structure is required to engage an accredited performance bondsperson to ensure
complete compliance with the terms of the approved Operation, Monitoring and
Amortization Plan. The plan must specify the name and address of the
Bondsperson, as well as the amount of the insurance obtained.
      (6)   Other requirements. Additional requirements may be imposed if
further protection of the village's groundwater supply to the public well
system is warranted, including groundwater monitoring beyond the amortization
period specified in the plan. Factors which shall be considered include but are
not limited to the toxicity of the substance, the amount of the substance,
proximity of the condition to the well, soil conditions, topography and other
factors pointing to the degree of risk posed to the public water supply.
   (C)   Approval process for operating and monitoring plans.
      (1)   Plan submission. The owner or developer shall submit 10 copies of
the Operating and Monitoring Plan to the Zoning Administrator for consideration
by the Village Council.
      (2)   Plan review. The Zoning Administrator shall review the Operating
and Monitoring Plan and prepare a recommendation for the Village Council, based
on the plan's compliance to the regulations specified in this subchapter and
the potential threat to the village's public water supply. The recommendation
shall be made within 30 calendar days of the plan's submission date.
      (3)   Plan approval. The Village Council shall approve the plan if it is
in compliance with this subchapter and contains sufficient precautions and
remedies to protect the village's public water supply. Operating and Monitoring
Plans not approved by the Village Council shall be revised and re-submitted
within 30 days.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.47 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection
overlay zone established under this subchapter, including without limitation
those applicable to non-conforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties,
shall be the same as provided in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.48 TABLE; MOUNTAIN AND INNER PIEDMONT.
12 Hour         Area          Area
Pumping Gal/Day (Square Mile) (Square Feet) Radius (Feet)
Gal/Min
12 Hour         Area          Area
Pumping Gal/Day (Square Mile) (Square Feet) Radius (Feet)
Gal/Min
0       0       0             0             0
5       3600    0.0072        401448.96     358
10      7200    0.0144        802897.92     506
15      10800   0.0216        1204346.88    620
20      14400   0.0288        1605795.84    716
25      18000   0.036         2007244.8     800
30      21600   0.0432        2408693.76    876
35      25200   0.0504        2810142.72    947
40      28800   0.0576        3211591.68    1012
45      32400   0.0648        3613040.64    1073
50      36000   0.072         4014489.6     1131
55      39600   0.0792        4415938.56    1186
60      43200   0.0864        4817387.52    1239
65      46800   0.0936        5218836.48    1290
70      50400   0.1008        5620285.44    1338
75      54000   0.108         6021734.4     1385
80      57600   0.1152        6423183.36    1431
85      61200   0.1224        6824632.32    1475
90      64800   0.1296        7226081.28    1518
95      68400   0.1368        7627530.24    1559
100     72000   0.144         8028979.2     1600
105     75600   0.1512        8430428.16    1639
110     79200   0.1584        8831877.12    1678
115     82800   0.1656        9233326.08    1715
120     86400   0.1728        9634775.04    1752
125     90000   0.18          10036224      1788
130     93600   0.1872        10437672.96   1824
135     97200   0.1944        10839121.92   1858
140     100800  0.2016        11240570.88   1893
145     104400  0.2088        11642019.84   1926
150     108000  0.216         12043468.8    1959
155     111600  0.2232        12444917.76   1991
160     115200  0.2304        12846366.72   2023
165     118800  0.2376        13247815.68   2055
170     122400  0.2448        13649264.64   2085
175     126000  0.252         14050713.6    2116
180     129600  0.2592        14452162.56   2146
185     133200  0.2664        14853611.52   2175
190     136800  0.2736        15255060.48   2205
195     140400  0.2808        15656509.44   2233
200     144000  0.288         16057958.4    2262
205     147600  0.2952        16459407.36   2290
210     151200  0.3024        16860856.32   2318
215     154800  0.3096        17262305.28   2345
220     1548400 0.3168        17663754.24   2372
Equations:
Column 2 = Pump rate x (720 is the minutes pumped in a 12 hour day)
Column 3 = Column 2 / recharge rate
Column 4 = (Column 3 x (5280 squared)) x 2 (Area is doubled to adjust 2:
1 ellipse)
Column 5 = (Delineation radius) - square root (Column 4/3.14)
 
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of any provision of §§
50.15 et seq. and/or the specified restrictions and measures established by the
resolution required in §
50.18 shall be subject to the following penalties:
         (a)   First violation: $25.
         (b)   Second and subsequent violations: $50.
      (2)   Each day in violation of §§
50.15 et seq. shall constitute a separate offense. In the initial stages of a
water shortage condition or water shortage emergency, enforcement officials may
provide violators with no more than 1 written warning. The Council, in addition
to the sanctions contained herein, may take other appropriate actions,
including disconnection from the water resource.
(2002 Code, Ch. 50, § 50.01(h)) (Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
CHAPTER 51: GARBAGE AND REFUSE; COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Approved containers
   
51.03   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
51.04   Containers required
   
51.05   Unlawful to displace containers
   
51.06   Residential recycling required
   
51.07   Commercial recycling required
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling, or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign,
and other structures but not limited to, excavated earth, tree stumps, rocks,
gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material used in
construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses and recognizable industrial by-products but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   REFUSE. All non-putrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other discarded solid
materials, including SOLID WASTE materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial, and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Tree limb, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, plants or grass.
(2002 Code, Ch. 41, § 41.01) (Ord. passed 4-16-2002)
§ 51.02 APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(2002 Code, Ch. 41, § 41.02) (Ord. passed 4-16-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
herein required or have properly picked up and disposed of.
(2002 Code, Ch. 41, § 41.04) (Ord. passed 4-16-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Condition of containers. The occupant of every building or premises
where garbage and refuse does or may exist shall provide containers made of
substantial galvanized iron, plastic, rubber or other non-rusting material in
which shall be deposited all garbage and refuse existing at the building or
premises. All containers shall be watertight and will have a tight fitting
cover. All containers shall be maintained in a reasonably clean, sanitary and
odor free condition. Gates and fences must remain in good repair and any gates
should remain closed except when dumpsters and grease containers are being
filled or emptied.
   (B)   Dumpsters and grease containers. All dumpsters, compactors, grease
containers and similar type containers must be located on or above a smooth
surface such as concrete, asphalt or gravel that is kept clean and maintained
in good repair. A solid buffer fence constructed of either wood material, or of
masonry construction, with opaque gates shall be erected so as to screen the
dumpster from the view of adjacent streets and abutting properties. All new
fences should be at least 2 feet higher than the containers and provide at
least 2 feet of inside clearance on all sides of the containers. All existing
fences must be same height or higher than the container. Containers shall not
be located in any area conflicting with setback regulations, nor shall any
container be located within any public right-of-way, nor shall any container be
placed in any parking space.
   (C)   Dumpster location. No new dumpsters shall be located on any property
after the effective date of this chapter without conforming to the requirements
of this chapter. All properties containing an existing dumpster, grease
container, compactor, or similar type container shall comply with division (B)
above within 90 days after the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Construction dumpsters.  Construction dumpsters shall be permitted on
private property for up to 6 months at a time with a valid building permit. A
construction dumpster permit will have to be obtained from the Village Clerk,
Mayor or appointee. Every 6 months a new construction dumpster permit will have
to be obtained. Construction dumpsters will be exempt from division (B) above
but will not be allowed to be placed on public rights-of-way. All construction
dumpsters shall be maintained in a reasonably clean and sanitary condition.
Containers must be emptied when full and no materials shall be outside the
container.
   (E)   Enclosures required for dumpster containers.
      (1)   Presently each and every dumpster container is required to be
placed within an enclosure and shielded from public view from adjacent streets
and abutting properties.
      (2)   Dumpster enclosures are specifically required to be shielded from
public view, with a temporary opening permitted on one side, allowing for the
maintenance, the removal, the filling and emptying of the contents of the
dumpster container.
      (3)   It shall be illegal for any and all persons, property owners,
lessee, or vendor to place a dumpster container on any site within the village
limits, or within the village's extraterritorial jurisdiction, that does not
presently contain a dumpster container enclosure that is shielded in
conformance with the division.
      (4)   Each and every dumpster container shall be kept within its
enclosure, and shall at all times be shielded from public view, except when it
is necessary to temporarily open one side of the dumpster container for
maintenance, removal, filling and emptying of its contents.
      (5)   Any dumpster container that is not in compliance with the shielding
requirements of this section shall be removed within ten days of specific
notification by the Chimney Rock Village Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   Maintenance. All garbage and refuse containers, dumpsters, grease
containers, and other refuse containers shall be maintained in a manner so as
not to create odors or attract vermin and/or animals. If the problems exist the
condition will be considered a public nuisance under §
95.01 and will be handled as such under the rules and regulations of Chapter 95
of the Chimney Rock Village Code of Ordinances. Continuing odor problems or
other public nuisance problems may necessitate the removal and relocation of
the dumpster or other containers.
(2002 Code, Ch. 41, § 41.05) (Ord. passed 4-16-2002; Ord. passed 1-15-2008)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 UNLAWFUL TO DISPLACE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace or to otherwise
interfere with garbage containers or his or her contents except the owner or on
permission or at the request of the owner. This section will not apply if the
containers are found by a village investigation to be a public nuisance under
the provisions of §
95.01 of the Village Code of Ordinances.
(2002 Code, Ch. 41, § 41.08) (Ord. passed 4-16-2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Recycling required. As of September 1, 2010, all residents living in
single-family structures, multifamily structures and mixed-use buildings shall
separate aluminum cans, plastic bottles, paper and cardboard for recycling; and
no aluminum cans, plastic bottles, paper and cardboard shall be deposited in a
garbage can or container after that date.
   (B)   Curbside pickup. As of September 1, 2010, the village will begin a
curbside recycle pickup program for which service all residential households
will be billed a monthly fee.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   As of September 1, 2010, the village shall continue a program of
educational outreach regarding these new recycling requirements.
      (2)   As of September 1, 2010, residential customers that self-haul their
garbage shall be prohibited from disposing of garbage with significant amounts
of aluminum cans, plastic bottles, paper or cardboard without properly
recycling such items at an authorized recovered material recycler or at a
convenience center.
      (3)   As of January 1, 2011, any violation of this section by residential
curbside or other residential customers may result in refusal of curbside waste
collection services. Residential customers shall be required to remove these
items from garbage containers before they will be collected. Any violation of
this section by residential customers may result in an additional collection
charge per container collected.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2010)
§ 51.07 COMMERCIAL RECYCLING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Recycling required. As of September 1, 2010, all commercial
establishments, including those entities authorized to self-haul their own
waste, shall separate recyclable items, such as aluminum cans, plastic bottles,
paper and cardboard for recycling; and no aluminum cans, plastic bottles, paper
and cardboard shall be deposited in garbage cans and containers.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   As of September 1, 2010, the village shall continue a program of
educational outreach regarding these new recycling requirements.
      (2)   As of January 1, 2011, civil infractions shall apply to any
violation of this section pursuant to §
10.99.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Commercial establishments may elect to utilize authorized recovered
material recyclers. The village shall supply a list of recovered material
recyclers. The list may be amended from time to time as additional recovered
material recyclers become available.
      (2)   Commercial establishments may elect to deposit their own recyclable
materials at any authorized recycle center or convenience center.
      (3)   All commercial establishments shall provide a recycling compliance
form, which states and certifies the manner in which they are complying with
this section.
(Ord. passed 8-17-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Traffic and parking regulations
   
70.02   Obedience to signs, markers or devices
   
70.03   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement
   
70.04   Display of unauthorized signs
   
70.05   Interference with traffic control devices
   
70.06   Authority of law enforcement and fire officials
   
70.07   Obedience to law enforcement and fire officials
   
70.08   Authorized emergency vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Overnight parking prohibited, see §
96.02
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of traffic on streets and public ways, see G.S. § 160A-300
§ 70.01 TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Village traffic and parking regulations will be established by
ordinance by the Village Council. When a new traffic or parking ordinance is
adopted, the appointed village official will make certain that the appropriate
sign, traffic control signal or other markings are made to give proper notice
of the regulation.
   (B)   A list or record of all village traffic and parking regulations shall
be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk. The current list of
regulations is incorporated by reference into this chapter as applicable.
(2002 Code, Ch. 70, § 70.01) (Am. Ord. passed 7-21-2009)
§ 70.02 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS, MARKERS OR DEVICES.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker, or device for the control of direction of traffic or
regulation of parking erected or placed in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter, when so placed or erected, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This
section shall not be construed to apply when the driver of a vehicle is
otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer, or when an exception is
granted to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under §
70.08.
(2002 Code, Ch. 70, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 SIGNS AS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign was not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person.
(2002 Code, Ch. 70, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display on or in view of any street
or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to
be or is imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device, sign or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control
device, sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit on any street or highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
(2002 Code, Ch. 70, § 70.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device, sign,
or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
(2002 Code, Ch. 70, § 70.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT AND FIRE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the recognized law enforcement
entities operating within the municipal limits to enforce all street traffic
laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
   (B)   Law enforcement officers are authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the
event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard
pedestrians, law enforcement officers may direct traffic as conditions may
require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department or the Emergency Management Service
associations, when at the scene of a fire or other emergency, may direct or
assist the law enforcement officers in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
   (D)   Officers of the State of North Carolina, such as, but not limited to,
the Highway Patrol, the Wildlife Commission and the Rutherford County Sheriff's
Department, are authorized to enforce all street traffic laws and all vehicle
laws within the village limits.
(2002 Code, Ch. 70, § 70.08)
§ 70.07 OBEDIENCE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT AND FIRE OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a law enforcement officer or Fire Department official.
(2002 Code, Ch. 70, § 70.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this chapter, except as provided under state law.
(2002 Code, Ch. 70, § 70.10)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency vehicles, exceptions to right-of-way rules, see G.S. § 20-156
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
92.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   WEEDS, GRASS AND REFUSE
      
96.   CAMPING AND OVERNIGHT PARKING
      
97.   WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN
      
98.   DILAPIDATED, DETERIORATED, OR DISTRESSED STRUCTURES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Control of nuisance and dangerous animals
   
90.03   Enforcement
   
90.04   Livestock
   
90.05   Bird sanctuary
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. A human being at least 18 years of age.
   AGGRESSIVE ANIMAL. Any animal that, without provocation, constitutes a
physical threat to human beings or other animals.
   ANIMAL. Every non-human creature.
   ANIMAL HAVING DANGEROUS OR DESTRUCTIVE PROPENSITIES. A animal which
constitutes a physical threat to humans or other animals, or a dog which turns
over garbage receptacles, destroys shrubs, flowers, grass and other plant
growth, injures or kills other animals, attacks or attempts to attack persons
or performs other similar acts.
   ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT.
      (1)   Any animal secured by a leash or lead under the control of a person
physically capable of restraining the animal, or is obedient to the person's
commands or is securely enclosed within the real property limits of the owner's
premises. See §
90.02 for listing of those animals that shall be under restraint.
      (2)   ANIMAL UNDER RESTRAINT may also include the following:
         (a)   While on the property of its owner that reasonable care and
precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property of
its owner while unattended, wherein the animal is:
            1.   Securely and humanely confined within a house, building,
fence, crate, pen or other enclosure;
            2.   Humanely secured by chain, cable and trolley, rope, or tether
of sufficient strength to prevent escape, or controlled by an electronic fence
device; or
            3.   Leashed or otherwise controlled by a responsible person or is
obedient to the commands of a person present with the animal at any time it is
not secured.
         (b)   While off the property of the owner that:
            1.   The animal is securely confined within a vehicle;
            2.   The animal is caged or tethered in the open bed of a pick-up
truck;
            3.   The animal is securely and humanely confined within a house,
building, fence, crate, pen or other enclosure;
            4.   The animal is humanely secured by a chain, cable and trolley,
rope, or tether of sufficient strength to prevent escape; or
            5.   That the animal is leashed or otherwise controlled by a
responsible person or is obedient to the commands of a person present with the
animal at any time it is not secured.
   AT-LARGE. Any unattended animal off the premises of the owner and not under
the actual control of the owner.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of the village or
other animal control or law enforcement authority:
      (1)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, or endangered or has inflicted
severe injuries on a human being on public or private property;
      (2)   Has more than once severely injured or killed a domestic animal
while off the owner's property;
      (3)   Has been used primarily, or in part, for the purpose of dog
fighting or is a dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (4)   Has, when unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the
street, sidewalks or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent
attitude of attack, provided that the actions are attested to in a sworn
statement by 1 or more persons and dutifully investigated by the appropriate
authority.
   EXCESSIVE ANIMAL NOISE. Noise continuously and/or incessantly for a period
of 10 minutes or noise intermittently for 1/2 hour or more.
   OWNER. Any natural person, firm, association or corporation, or organization
who possesses, keeps, harbors or has custody or control of an animal. If the
owner is a minor, as defined by statute (under the age of 18), the minor's
parent(s) or legal guardian shall be the owner for purposes of this chapter.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal with a propensity or disposition to
attack unprovoked, or otherwise threaten the safety of humans and domestic
animals.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE. A building or other structure from which a dog or animal
cannot escape, or an outside area enclosed by a fence at least 6 feet in
height, secured to the ground in a manner so that a dog or animal cannot
escape.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal that unreasonably annoys persons,
endangers the life or health of persons or other animals, or substantially
interferes with the right of persons to enjoyment of life or property. The term
shall include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   An animal that damages the property of anyone other than its owner
or causes the loss of property;
      (2)   An animal that has bitten a person without provocation;
      (3)   An animal that bites, attacks, or wounds another animal without
provocation;
      (4)   An animal that excessively howls, barks, growls or makes other
noises so as to unduly disturb or disrupt the public peace, order and
tranquillity;
      (5)   An animal that chases motor vehicles in a public right-of-way;
      (6)   A dangerous animal;
      (7)   Any animal that damages private property;
      (8)   Any animal that is repeatedly found running-at-large;
      (9)   Any animal that causes fouling of the air by noxious or offensive
odors and thereby creates unreasonable annoyance or discomfort to neighbors or
others in close proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (10)   Any animal in heat that is not confined so as to prevent
attraction or contact with other animals; and
      (11)   Any animal, whether or not on the property of its owner, that
without provocation, molests, attacks or otherwise interferes with the freedom
of movement of persons in a public right-of-way.
(2002 Code, Ch. 81, § 81.01)
§ 90.02 CONTROL OF NUISANCE AND DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The keeping or maintenance of any animal having dangerous or
destructive propensities outside a proper enclosure is declared to be a public
nuisance, and shall be abated as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   The keeping or maintenance of any animal or dog, which creates
excessive noise by prolonged and habitual barking, howling or whining, causes
serious annoyance to neighboring residents and interferes with the reasonable
use and enjoyment of the premises occupied by the residents, or with the
reasonable use and enjoyment of the public streets, sidewalks or other public
areas, is declared to be a public nuisance, and shall be abated as provided in
this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of every person having custody or control of any
animal deemed to be a public nuisance animal, an aggressive animal, a dangerous
dog or a potentially dangerous animal; to keep the animal or dog securely under
restraint when upon the public streets of the village or in any public place,
or upon property other than the property of the owner. The foregoing animals or
dogs shall not be permitted to be at-large.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of every person having custody or control of any
animal or dog within the village limits to exercise the control over the animal
or dog so as to prevent the animal from biting any person when the person is
either upon public property or lawfully upon private property. For the purposes
of this division, a person is lawfully upon private property when he or she is
on the property in the performance of any duty imposed upon him or her by the
laws of this state or by the laws of the postal regulations of the United
States or when he or she is on the property upon invitation, expressed or
implied, of the owner thereof. It shall not, however, be a violation of this
division when the facts of any individual case show an animal or dog bite is
the result of mischievously or carelessly provoked activity upon the part of
the person bitten.
(2002 Code, Ch. 81, § 81.02) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Complaint and notice. On receipt of a written detailed and signed
complaint being made to the village that any person is maintaining a public
nuisance as described in §
90.02 above, the Village Clerk or Mayor shall cause the owner or keeper of the
dog or animal in question to be notified that a complaint has been received,
and shall cause the situation complained of to be investigated and a report and
findings written.
   (B)   Abatement. If the written findings of the investigation indicate that
the complaint is justified, then the Village Clerk or Mayor shall cause the
owner or keeper of the dog or animal in question to be so notified in writing,
signed receipt request or certified mail, of order to abate the nuisance within
48 hours by destruction or removal of the animal, or by construction of a
proper enclosure, or other action as the case may necessitate. In the event the
owner or keeper of the animal is unknown and cannot be ascertained, the notice
and order, along with a general description of the animal, shall be posted for
48 hours at the Village Office or Village Post Office.
   (C)   Impoundment of failure to abate; destruction. If any person being the
owner or keeper of a dog or animal herein above described shall fail or refuse
to abate the nuisance on order of the village within the specified time, the
Village Clerk or Mayor shall cause the dog or animal in question to be
apprehended and impounded in a suitable place, and the owner or keeper shall be
notified in writing of the impoundment. If the owner or keeper shall so
request, the dog or animal shall be released to him or her upon his or her
execution of a written statement or agreement to comply with the abatement
order. If no such request and execution is made by the owner or keeper within 5
days after written notice is given, the Village Clerk or Mayor shall cause the
dog or animal to be destroyed. In the event of the dog or animal, the owner or
keeper of which is unknown, the Village Clerk or Mayor shall cause apprehension
and impoundment to be carried out if no one claims the dog within 48 hours
after the notice, order and description were posted, and shall cause a notice
of impoundment, along with a general description of the dog or animal, to be
posted for 5 days at the Village Office or Village Post Office. If no request
for release of the dog or animal and an order of abatement respecting the
animal is made within the 5 day period, the Village Clerk or Mayor shall cause
the animal to be destroyed.
(2002 Code, Ch. 81, § 81.03)
§ 90.04 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Keeping of livestock is prohibited in what constitutes the immediate
downtown commercial district. It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain any cow,
horse, pony, mule, sheep, goat or other livestock on any lot or within any pen,
stable or other enclosure or building within the area commonly known as the
downtown commercial district. This area is better defined as the commercial
areas and properties that lie along U.S. Highway 64/74A as it traverses through
Chimney Rock Village. This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the
assembling of livestock for, or the unloading from, shipment of livestock,
provided that the livestock are not kept within the corporate commercial
district as defined above for more than 24 hours prior to shipment or
subsequent to unloading.
   (B)   Effect upon existing livestock. Persons keeping or maintaining within
the corporate commercial district as defined above, any animals named or
considered livestock, shall remove them from the corporate commercial district
to a place beyond this area in order to comply with division (A) above not
later than 6 months from the effective date of this section.
(2002 Code, Ch. 81, § 81.04) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The territory within the corporate limits defined and considered the
downtown commercial district as it lies along U.S. Highway 64/74A is declared a
bird sanctuary. This is not to be construed to apply to properties that lie
beyond the downtown commercial district that may commonly be used for sport
hunting purposes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, trap or otherwise take
any bird within the corporate commercial district as defined above except
crows, starlings, pigeons and domesticated fowls.
(2002 Code, Ch. 81, § 81.05) Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of bird sanctuaries authorized, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   If any person, being the owner or keeper of a dog or animal respecting
which an order of abatement has been issued, shall fail or refuse to abate the
nuisance as ordered, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable
upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment of not more than
30 days.
   (B)   In addition, enforcement of this chapter may be by injunction,
restraining order, or order of abatement in a court of competent jurisdiction,
as provided by G.S. § 160-A175(d) and (e).
   (C)   (1)   The violation of any provision of §
90.04 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be
recovered by the village. Violators shall be issued a written citation, which
must be paid within 72 hours.
      (2)   Each day continuing violation of §
90.04 shall be a separate and distinctly different offense.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (C)(1) above, this provision may also be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction or by criminal penalties as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(2002 Code, Ch. 81, § 81.99)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
91.02   Enforcement
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Modifications
   
91.05   Appeals
Statutory-reference:
   Municipal fire protection; generally, see §§ 160A-291 et seq.
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   (A)   There is adopted, for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or explosion, that certain
code known as the Fire Prevention Code, 1976 Abbreviated Edition, recommended
by the American Insurance Association, being particularly the current edition
thereof and the whole thereof, save and except the portions as are hereinafter
deleted, modified or amended, of which code 1 copy has been and now is filed
with either the Village Clerk or the Rutherford County Fire Marshal.
   (B)   This Fire Prevention Code, and any other such regulations as pertain
to the safety of life and property as are currently in effect and enforceable
by the Rutherford County Fire Marshal, are adopted and fully incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein, unless otherwise deleted, modified or
amended. From the date on which this chapter is approved and takes effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the municipal limits of Chimney
Rock Village.
(2002 Code, Ch. 31, § 31.10)
§ 91.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The codes and regulations hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Rutherford
County Fire Marshal and the Chief of the Chimney Rock Volunteer Fire
Department, as well as other individuals who may be legally authorized by the
State of North Carolina or Rutherford County to enforce the provisions.
(2002 Code, Ch. 31, § 31.11)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY.  Whenever used in the Fire Prevention Code or other related safety
regulations, shall be held to refer to Rutherford County.
   MUNICIPALITY. Whenever used in the Fire Prevention Code or other related
safety regulations, shall be held to refer to the incorporated community of
Chimney Rock Village.
(2002 Code, Ch. 31, § 31.12)
§ 91.04 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Fire Marshal of Rutherford County may modify these provisions following
procedures acceptable to the governing body of Rutherford County. Chimney Rock
Village hereby accepts the modifications, unless otherwise specifically
deleted, modified or amended within this municipal code.
(2002 Code, Ch. 31, § 31.13)
§ 91.05 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Fire Marshal or any other official disapproves an application
for any activity covered within these applicable codes and regulations, the
normally acceptable appeals procedure in effect within Rutherford County shall
be followed unless other provisions for appeal are set forth within this
municipal code.
(2002 Code, Ch. 31, § 31.14)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
92.02   Junked motor vehicles
   
92.03   Duty of owner to remove
   
92.04   Removal
   
92.05   Cost of removal; notice to owner
   
92.06   Sale of abandoned vehicles
   
92.07   Disposition of proceeds of sale; abandoned
   
92.08   Disposition of motor vehicles
   
92.09   Disposition of unidentified vehicles
   
92.10   Disposition of proceeds from sale; junked
   
92.11   Immunity
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate abandoned and junked vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-303
§ 92.01 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   A motor vehicle shall be deemed to have been abandoned for the purposes of
this chapter in the following circumstances:
   (A)   It is left unattended upon a street or highway for longer than 24
hours in violation of any law or ordinance prohibiting parking;
   (B)   It is left unaccompanied on property owned or operated by the village
for a period of longer than 24 hours;
   (C)   It is left unaccompanied on any public street or highway for a period
longer than 7 days; or
   (D)   It is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof for longer than 2 hours.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.01)
§ 92.02 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Whenever a motor vehicle is found to be an abandoned motor vehicle as
defined in §
90.01 and, in addition, is found to be inoperable, is partially dismantled or
wrecked, is more than 5 years old and worth less than $100 or does not display
a current state license plate, it shall be deemed to be a junked motor vehicle.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.02)
§ 92.03 DUTY OF OWNER TO REMOVE.
   If a motor vehicle is abandoned or junked on a public street or highway, it
shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of the motor vehicle to cause
the removal thereof immediately and to pay all cost incident to the removal. It
shall be unlawful for any person to allow a motor vehicle owned by him or her
to remain abandoned on a public street or highway after notice has been duly
given to the person to have the vehicle removed.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 REMOVAL.
   Whenever any motor vehicle is abandoned or junked on a public street or
highway, on property owned or operated by the village or on private property,
any vehicle may be removed by or under the direction of the local law
enforcement officer to a storage garage or area, provided, no vehicle shall be
removed from the private property without the written request or permission of
the owner, lessee or occupant thereof unless the vehicle has been declared by
the Village Council or its duly appointed representative, to be a health or
safety hazard.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.04)
§ 92.05 COST OF REMOVAL; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   When an abandoned or junked motor vehicle is removed from private
property at the request of the owner, lessee or occupant thereof, the person at
whose request the vehicle was removed shall be required to pay or otherwise
indemnify the village for any expenses incurred by reason of the removal and
storage of the vehicle.
   (B)   The owner of any vehicle removed hereunder from any public street or
highway, or any property owned or operated by the village, or any private
property, shall pay to the municipality all reasonable cost incident to the
removal and storage of the vehicle and to locating the owner thereof.
   (C)   Written notice of each removal of an abandoned or junked vehicle and
of the possible sale or disposition thereof shall be given as promptly as
possible to the owner at the last known address according to the latest vehicle
registration certificate or certificate of title on file with the State
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (D)   Notice does not need to be given to the registered owner when the
vehicle does not display a license plate and the vehicle identification numbers
have been removed or defaced so as to be illegible.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.05)
§ 92.06 SALE OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   If the abandoned motor vehicle is worth $100 or more and should the owner
thereof refuse to pay the aforementioned cost, or should the identity or
whereabouts of the owner be unknown and unascertainable after a diligent
search, it shall, after being held by the village for 30 days and after 30 days
written notice to the registered owner at his or her last known address if his
or her identity is known, and to the holders of all liens of record against the
vehicle, and to the State Department of Motor Vehicles, be sold by the Village
Clerk or an appointed Village Council designee at public auction, however, any
person having an interest in the vehicle may redeem it at any time before the
sale by paying all costs accrued to that date.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.06)
§ 92.07 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE; ABANDONED.
   The proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle shall be paid to the
Village Clerk or designee, who shall pay from the proceeds the cost of removal,
storage, investigation, sale and liens, in that order. The remainder of the
proceeds of the sale, if any, shall be paid over to the registered owner, or
held by the Clerk for 60 days if the registered owner cannot be located with
reasonable diligence. If the owner does not claim the remainder of the proceeds
within 60 days after the sale, the funds shall be deposited into the village
general fund and the owner's rights therein shall be forever extinguished.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.07)
§ 92.08 DISPOSITION OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   With the consent of the owner, the Village Clerk or Council appointed
designee, may dispose of any vehicle as a junked motor vehicle without holding
it for any prescribed period of time. If an unclaimed abandoned motor vehicle
appears to be worth less than $100, the Clerk or Council appointed designee,
may dispose of the vehicle as a junked vehicle.
   (B)   Any unclaimed junked motor vehicle as defined by this chapter shall be
held for a period of at least 15 days. The owner of any vehicle may claim his
or her vehicle during the 15 day retention period by exhibiting proof of
ownership to the Village Clerk and after paying all reasonable cost incident to
the removal and storage of the vehicle, plus administrative expenses not to
exceed 10% of the reasonable cost to the state. If after the vehicle is held 15
days, it remains unclaimed, the vehicle may be destroyed or sold at private
sale as junk. Within 15 days after final disposition of a junked motor vehicle,
written notice thereof shall be given to the State Department of Motor Vehicles
that the vehicle has been determined to be a junked motor vehicle and disposed
of as such. The notice shall contain as full and accurate a description of the
vehicle as can be reasonably determined.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.08)
§ 92.09 DISPOSITION OF UNIDENTIFIED VEHICLES.
   Vehicles not displaying a valid license plate or any license plate, and
whose identification numbers have been removed or defaced so as to be illegible
may be destroyed or sold at a private sale, without regard to value, after
being held for 48 hours.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.09)
§ 92.10 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS FROM SALE; JUNKED.
   The proceeds of the sale of a junked motor vehicle, after all cost of
removal, storage, investigation, sale, and satisfaction of any liens of record
on the vehicle have been deducted therefrom, shall be held by the Clerk for 30
days and paid to the registered owner on demand. If the owner does not appear
to claim the remainder of the proceeds within 30 days after disposal of the
vehicle, the funds shall be deposited into the Chimney Rock Village general
fund and the owner's rights therein shall be forever extinguished.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.10)
§ 92.11 IMMUNITY.
   Neither the village nor any person shall be held to answer in any civil or
criminal actions to any owner or other person legally entitled to the previous
possession of any abandoned, lost or stolen vehicle for disposing of the
vehicle as contemplated by this chapter.
(2002 Code, Ch. 80, § 80.11)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Board approval of new streets
Excavation and Repair
   
93.15   Excavations; permit required
   
93.16   Application; fees
   
93.17   Street repair; after excavation
   
93.18   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
93.19   Streets not to be damaged by machinery
   
93.20   Sidewalk construction
   
93.21   House moving
   
93.22   Damage to village property
   
93.23   Driveways; permit required
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and control over municipal streets, see G.S. § 160A-296
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 BOARD APPROVAL OF NEW STREETS.
   Before any new street offered for dedication to the village is accepted as
such, and officially recognized as a village maintained street, the Village
Council must give its approval, finding that the street complies with
engineering standards set forth by the State of North Carolina Department of
Transportation or the Village Council, and that the best interest of the
village would be served by accepting the street as a village street.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.01)
EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
§ 93.15 EXCAVATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel, or hole in, along, across, or under any street, sidewalk, or other
public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires, or
poles or for any other purposes unless a written permit or letter therefore has
been issued by some appointed officer of the village vested with proper
authority, provided, that a permit or letter shall not be required where the
work is performed under a contract with the village, but in the event the work
requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the party
performing the work shall notify the village at least 2 hours before blocking
the sidewalk or street, unless prevented by an emergency.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.16 APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   All persons desiring a permit or letter to make an opening in any
street or sidewalk, as set forth in §
93.15, shall make a written application therefore, which application shall show
the location of the proposed opening, the purpose therefore and the approximate
number of square yards or surface area to be cut. A fee of $ 25 will be
required by the Council for the application and permit and dependent on the
scope and magnitude of the work, a bond may be required to assure proper
repairs upon completion of work.
   (B)   Fees for all other such permits required in this section shall be $10.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.16)
§ 93.17 STREET REPAIR; AFTER EXCAVATION.
   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place of the
municipality shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the
excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or
opening, and the refilling shall be done in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the State of North Carolina or the village, whichever may be
applicable.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.47) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.18 EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who obtains a
permit under the sections of this chapter to do any excavations of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk or public place of the village without placing and maintaining proper
guard rails 3 feet from the ground and signal lights or other warnings at, in
or around the same, sufficient to warn the public of the excavations or work,
and to protect all persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of
the excavations or work.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.19 STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED BY MACHINERY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drag, or
run or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine,
machine, or tool on any road surface or other type of permanently paved street
of the village which shall be likely in any way to injure or cut the surface
thereof.
   (B)   Any person violating division (A) above and damaging any permanently
paved street shall be liable to the village for the cost of repairing any and
all damages.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Injury to public property generally prohibited, see §
130.03
   Village property, see §
93.22
§ 93.20 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or
corporation of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from
the village.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.21 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building on or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Village Council and a deposit
of good and sufficient bond to cover damage done to any street or sidewalk or
to any property of any person.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.22 DAMAGE TO VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint on or deface any bridge,
culvert, ditch and drain, sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal,
bulletin board or other village property on the streets and sidewalks or
elsewhere except employees of the village in the performance of their duties.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.23 DRIVEWAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter or grade any
driveway on the public streets, unless a written permit therefore has been
issued by the village.
(2002 Code, Ch. 40, § 40.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
   
94.01   Littering prohibited
   
94.02   Littering from vehicles
   
94.03   Maintenance of public areas
   
94.04   Receptacles
   
94.05   Publicly owned solid waste containers
§ 94.01 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit on any street
or sidewalk, public lands, river, river bank parking areas, any trash, refuse,
garbage, building material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper or any other
type of litter.
   (B)   All applicable state penalties allowed by General Statutes may also
apply to violators on each offense.
(2002 Code, Ch. 82, § 82.01) (Am. Ord. passed 8-17-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty, see G.S. § 14-399
§ 94.02 LITTERING FROM VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter on any street, river, river bank or other
public place within the village or on private property.
   (B)   All applicable state penalties allowed by General Statutes may also
apply to violators on each offense.
(2002 Code, Ch. 82, § 82.02)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty, see G.S. § 14-399
§ 94.03 MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AREAS.
   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within 10 feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
sanitary and free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be
blown, deposited or cast on the street or other public way.
(2002 Code, Ch. 82, § 82.03)
§ 94.04 RECEPTACLES.
   Suitable receptacles may be provided in parking or access areas within the
meaning of §
94.03 of this chapter. The receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed
to prevent scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish, or other materials
deposited therein.
(2002 Code, Ch. 82, § 82.04)
§ 94.05 PUBLICLY OWNED SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any household trash in any
publicly owned solid waste container that has been placed in any public park,
placed in any community facility, placed along the Rocky Board River or any
publicly owned solid waste container that has been placed at any other location
within the village limits. HOUSEHOLD TRASH shall mean any trash, solid waste or
garbage that has been brought from an off-site location to any public park,
community facility, to any of the access areas along the Rocky Board River, or
any other publicly owned container, where the household trash has not been
produced by, or as a result of an activity at that location, such as picnicking
or other similar outdoor activity. All applicable state penalties allowed by
General Statutes may also apply to violators on each offense.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
Statutory reference:
   Penalty, see G.S. § 14-399
CHAPTER 95: WEEDS, GRASS AND REFUSE
Section
   
95.01   Nuisance conditions
   
95.02   Investigations
   
95.03   Notice of violation; hearing
   
95.04   Notice to abate
   
95.05   Abatement by village
   
95.06   Cost of abatement; lien
   
95.07   Procedure not exclusive
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see §
130.05
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 95.01 NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or
property or other parcel of land within the municipal limits of Chimney Rock
Village is declared to be dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or
safety and to constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   The controlled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in excess
of 24 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the public
health or safety;
   (B)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, or junk causing or threatening to
cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
   (C)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors, or by the inhabitancy therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
   (D)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove, glass,
building materials, building rubbish or similar items; or
   (E)   Any condition detrimental to the public health and safety which
violates the rules and regulations of the Rutherford County Health Department.
(2002 Code, Ch. 83, § 83.01)
§ 95.02 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Village Clerk, upon notice from any person of the possible existence of
any of the conditions described in §
95.01, shall cause to be made by the appropriate County Health Department
official, or Village Official, the investigation as may be necessary to
determine whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as
declared in §
95.01 or other such applicable codes as may be in use and enforceable by the
Rutherford County Health Department.
(2002 Code, Ch. 83, § 83.02)
§ 95.03 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; HEARING.
   If it appears that the conditions exist, the Village Clerk shall cause to be
delivered or mailed to the owner of the property upon which conditions exist, a
notice stating the reasons why the conditions may constitute a violation and
that a hearing will be held before the Village Council at a place therein
fixed, not less than 10 nor more than 30 days after delivery or mailing of the
notice. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the notice and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give evidence
at the place and time fixed in the notice. Any person desiring to do so may
attend the hearing and give evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The
rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in the hearings.
(2002 Code, Ch. 83, § 83.03)
§ 95.04 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   If a determination is made that the conditions constituting a public
nuisance exist, the Village Clerk shall notify, in writing, the owner of the
premises in question of the conditions constituting the public nuisance and
shall order the prompt abatement thereof within 30 days from the receipt of a
certified, signed receipt requested, written notice.
(2002 Code, Ch. 83, § 83.04)
§ 95.05 ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE.
   If the owner, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within 30 days from receipt of the order, the Village Clerk shall cause the
condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having qualified personnel
under the employee of the village, go upon the premises and remove or otherwise
abate the nuisance under the supervision of an official of the Village Council
or an appointed designee. Any person who has been ordered to abate a public
nuisance may, within the time allowed, request the village in writing to remove
the condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the
request.
(2002 Code, Ch. 83, § 83.05)
§ 95.06 COST OF ABATEMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   The actual cost incurred by the village in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Village Tax Collector to mail a
statement of the charges to the owner or other person in possession of the
premises with instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days
from receipt thereof. This bill shall be mailed certified, signed receipt
requested.
   (B)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as
provided for in division (A) above, the charges shall become a lien upon the
land or premises where the public nuisance existed and shall be collected as
unpaid taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-193.
(2002 Code, Ch. 83, § 83.06)
§ 95.07 PROCEDURE NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The procedures set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances and this chapter shall not prevent the village from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(2002 Code, Ch. 83, § 83.07)
CHAPTER 96: CAMPING AND OVERNIGHT PARKING
Section
   
96.01   Camping permitted only in designated areas
   
96.02   Overnight parking prohibited
§ 96.01 CAMPING PERMITTED ONLY IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   No camping activity, or the erection of any tent, lean-to, or similar
covering shall be permitted along the Broad River roadway parking areas, in any
village park area, or along any roadway parking areas; and shall be permitted
only within designated campgrounds and recreational vehicle areas.
(Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 96.02 OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   Overnight parking of vehicles of any type is not permitted along the Broad
River roadway parking areas or in any village parking lot.
(Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
CHAPTER 97: WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN
Section
   
97.01   Authority to implement
   
97.02   Factors requiring implementation of the Water Shortage Response Plan
   
97.03   Water use classification
   
97.04   Phased WSRP and water use reduction goals
   
97.05   Enforcement
   
97.06   Water shortage response plan cancellation
   
97.07   Conservation measures
   
97.08   Public comment
   
97.09   Effectiveness
   
97.10   Revision
   
97.11   Legal status provisions
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   For other water regulations, see
Chapter 50
§ 97.01 AUTHORITY TO IMPLEMENT.
   When conditions dictate, the Water System Operator (or designee), under the
direction of the Mayor, shall implement a Water Shortage Response plan (WSRP).
Conditions which require the WSRP to be enacted are outlined in §
97.02.
   Contact Person:
   Peter O'Leary
   Mayor
   (828) 625-2479
   Email: bubbaolearys@bellsouth.net
   Designee:
   Chuck Ammacher
   ORC
   (328) 333-8115
   Email: streetssuper@townoflakelure.com
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.02 FACTORS REQUIRING IMPLEMENTATION OF THE WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN.
   (A)   Several parameters or conditions may require the village to begin the
WSRP. These include but may not be limited to significant reductions in well
water levels, a significant increase in pump run times for the predetermined
total flow at the well(s), contaminants in the water system, act of terrorism,
vandalism, main breaks and natural disasters.
   (B)   If the factors listed above reduce well water levels or pump run times
or by any event or combination of events prevent the water system from
delivering water, WSRP phases will be enacted in the following order:
      (1)   Phase I will be enacted if a 20% reduction in normal well water
levels is noted or if pump run times increase 20% in order to maintain previous
rates or any other event which causes a 20% reduction is the water system's
capacity.
      (2)   Phase II will be enacted if a 40% reduction in normal well water
levels is noted or if pump run times increase 40% in order to maintain previous
rates or any other event which causes a 40% reduction in the system's capacity.
      (3)   Phase III will be enacted if a 60% reduction in normal well water
levels is noted or if pump run times increase 60% in order to maintain previous
rates or any other event which causes a 60% reduction in the system's capacity.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.03 WATER USE CLASSIFICATION.
   In order to facilitate a fair and equitable WSRP, every water use will be
grouped into one of three classifications.
   (A)   Class I: Essential water uses. These uses include but may not be
limited to water use required to/for:
      (1)   Sustain human life and the lives of domestic pets;
      (2)   Maintain minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation;
      (3)   Health care uses necessary for patient care and rehabilitation;
      (4)   Firefighting, including training and drills as approved by the
Mayor.
   (B)   Class II:  Socially or economically important water uses. These
include but may not be limited to water use required to/for:
      (1)   Preserve commercial vegetable gardens, fruit orchards, nursery
stock and livestock maintenance;
      (2)   Outdoor commercial watering, public or private;
      (3)   Establishing vegetation, after construction/earth moving
activities;
      (4)   Filling and operation of municipal or private swimming pools
provided that these swimming pools serve 25 or more residents;
      (5)   Operation of commercial car washes, restaurants, laundromats,
clubs, schools, churches and other similar establishments.
   (C)   Class III: Non-essential water uses. These uses include but may not be
limited to:
      (1)   Operation of water fountains, ornamental pools and recreational
swimming pools that serve fewer than 25 persons;
      (2)   Non-commercial washing of motor vehicles, sidewalks, houses, etc.;
      (3)   Non-commercial watering of gardens, lawns, parks, playing fields
and other recreational
areas.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.04 PHASED WSRP AND WATER USE REDUCTION GOALS.
   When the WSRP is implemented, the below phased approach will be followed.
   (A)   Phase I: Voluntary conservation.
      (1)   This phase will be enacted when it is determined that one or more
of the parameters outlined in §
97.02 is met. If this occurs, the consumers will be notified promptly by any or
all of the following: mailers, door hangers, public postings at the Village
Hall, post offices, etc. The public will be asked to begin voluntary
conservation measures and Class III uses will be halted. Specific conservation
measures and tips can be seen in §
97.07.
      (2)   Continued water consumption by Class III uses will result in a
written notice of violation for the first offense and a $25 fine for each
subsequent offense.
      (3)   If the determining parameter(s) returns to seasonal norms, the
measures will be lifted. However, failure of the determining parameter(s) to
return to a state of seasonal normalcy may require the initiation of Phase II
as set forth in division (B).
   (B)   Phase II: Mandatory conservation.
      (1)   This phase will begin when the Water System Operator issues a water
shortage advisory. The consumers will be notified by one of the methods noted
in Phase I. All users will be required to adhere to the voluntary conservation
measurers as noted in §
97.07. Class III uses will be banned. Class II uses will be allowed although
outdoor vegetative watering will be limited according to the resident's street
address. Even numbered addresses will be allowed to water on even days of the
month. Odd numbered addresses will be allowed to water on odd days of the
month.
      (2)   Failure to adhere to the Phase II (mandatory) required conditions
will result in a written notice of violation for the first offense and/or a $50
fine. Thereafter, each violation increases by a factor of $50. Any violation
past a fourth offense shall result in a disruption of water service to the
offending party until Phase II has been rescinded.
   (C)   Phase III: Emergency conservation.
      (1)   This phase will commence with the issuance of a water shortage
emergency declaration from the Water System Operator. Users will be notified by
any or all of the methods noted in Phase I. All users will be required to use
voluntary conservation measures outlined in §
97.07. Class III uses will be banned and Class II uses will be allowed with the
exception of vegetative watering. Industrial users will be required to
implement their water reduction program immediately.
      (2)   Failure to comply with the mandates during Phase III will require
the offending party to pay $100 fine for the first offense, $350 fine for the
second offense and disruption of service for the third offense.
      (3)   In addition, residential users will be allotted 1,000 gallons per
month per person per connection. If the user uses 1,001 to 1,250 gallons per
month per person per connection, a surcharge of 25% will be added to the
monthly bill. If the user uses 1,251 to 1,500 gallons per month per person per
connection, a surcharge of 75% will be added to the monthly water bill. If the
user uses 1,501 gallons or more per month per person per connection, a
surcharge of 150% will be added to the monthly bill.
      (4)   Commercial, industrial and institutional facilities will be
required to reduce their monthly water consumption by 25% of the previous 12-
month water consumption average to maintain the current water rate for that
month. The average water use can be evaluated on an individual basis for
facilities with seasonal demand fluctuations. A 10% to 24% water use reduction
from the previous 12-month water use average will require the village to impose
a 25% surcharge on the monthly water bill. A 0% to 9% water use reduction from
the previous 12-month water use average will require the village to impose a
50% surcharge on the monthly water bill. An increase of 1% to 25% above the
previous 12-month water use average will result in surcharge of 100% added to
the next monthly bill. Any amount used above 25% of the previous 12-month
average water use will require the village to add a surcharge of 150% to the
monthly bill.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of mandatory conservation and associated fines will be the
responsibility of the Water System Operator under the direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.06 WATER SHORTAGE RESPONSE PLAN CANCELLATION.
   As the determining parameter(s) decrease in severity and return to
acceptable levels, the village will lift the WSRP. The cancellation process
will be in the reverse order of the WSRP implementation.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.07 CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   Users are directed to adopt the following conservation measures.
   (A)   Indoor residential use.
      (1)   Conservation for voluntary and mandatory conservation phases.
         (a)   Use dishwashers only when they are full. Washing dishes by hand
(do not let the tap run) saves about 25 gallons.
         (b)   Adjust water level on clothes washing machines, if possible. Use
full loads only, if not adjustable.
         (c)   Turn off faucets while brushing teeth, etc. Saves about five
gallons per day.
         (d)   Reduce water used per flush by installing toilet tank
displacement inserts, a plastic jug may often be used as an alternative. DO NOT
USE BRICKS as they disintegrate when soaked and the resulting grit hinders
closing of the flap valve.
         (e)   Do not use the toilet as a trash can.
         (f)   Use sink and tub stoppers to avoid wasting water.
         (g)   Keep a bottle of chilled water in the refrigerator for drinking.
         (h)   Find and fix leaks in faucets and water-using appliances.
Faucets can usually be fixed cheaply and quickly by replacing washers.
         (i)   Adapt plumbing with flow-restricting or other water-saving
devices. These are usually inexpensive and easy to install.
         (j)   Learn to read your water meter so you can judge how much water
you use and what difference conservation makes.
         (k)   Take shorter showers and shallow baths. Saves about 25 gallons.
         (l)   Reduce the number of toilet flushes per day. Each flush uses
about five gallons (two to three gallons if you have water-saving toilets).
         (m)   Do not use a garbage disposal.
         (n)   Use non-phosphate detergent and save laundry water for lawns and
plants.
      (2)   Conservation for emergency conservation or rationing phase. In
addition to measures listed in division (A)(1) above.
         (a)   Turn off shower while soaping up;
         (b)   Use disposable eating utensils.
   (B)   Outdoor residential use.
      (1)   Conservation for normal conditions and voluntary conservation
phase.
         (a)   Lawns.
            1.   Water before 10:00 a.m. to present evaporation which occurs
during the hottest part of the day. Morning is better than evening, when the
dampness encourages growth of fungus.
            2.   Water only when lawn shows signs of wilt. Grass that springs
back when stepped on does not need water.
            3.   Water thoroughly, not frequently. Water long enough to soak
roots, a light sprinkling evaporates quickly and encourages shallow root
systems, Water slowly to avoid runoff.
            4.   Do not let the sprinkler run any longer than necessary. In an
hour, 600 gallons can be wasted.
            5.   Allow maximum of one inch of water per week on your lawn. To
measure, place cake tins outside to collect rain and water from sprinklers.
            6.   Use pistol-grip nozzles on hoses to avoid waste when watering
flowers and shrubs.
            7.   Aerate lawns by punching holes six inches apart. This allows
water to reach roots rather than run off surfaces.
            8.   Position sprinklers to water the lawn, not the pavement.
            9.   Avoid watering on windy days when the wind not only blows
water off target, but also causes excess evaporation.
            10.   Keep sprinkler heads clean to prevent uneven watering.
            11.   Adjust hose to simulate a gentle rain. Sprinklers that
produce a fine mist waste water through evaporation.
            12.   Know how to turn off an automatic sprinkler system in case of
rain.
            13.   Use an alarm clock or stove timer to remind you to shut off
sprinklers that do not have timers.
         (b)   Vegetable and flower gardens.
            1.   Water deeply, slowly and weekly. Most vegetables require
moisture to a depth of six to eight inches.
            2.   Keep soil loose so water can penetrate easily.
            3.   Keep weeds out to reduce competition for water.
            4.   Put the water where you want it and avoid evaporation by using
soil-soakers or slow-running hoses, not sprinklers.
         (c)   Trees and shrubs.
            1.   Water deeply using a soil-soaker or drip-irrigation.
            2.   Water only when needed. Check the depth of soil dryness by
digging with a trowel.
            3.   Mulch to reduce evaporation, a two- to three-inch layer of
wood chips, pine needles, grass clippings, or straw keeps the soil cool in
summer.
            4.   Dig troughs around plants to catch and retain water.
            5.   Water trees growing in full sun more often than those in
shade.
            6.   Do not use sprinklers. Apply water directly at base.
            7.   Do not fertilize during the summer. Fertilizing increases a
plant's need for water.
            8.   Postpone planting until fall or spring when there is generally
less need for water.
            9.   Install trickle-drip irrigation systems close to the roots of
your plants. By dripping water slowly, the system doesn't spray water in to the
air. Use soil probes for large trees.
            10.   Water when cloudy, at night, or even when a light rain is
falling.
      (2)   Conservation for voluntary conservation phase (in addition to
measures listed in division (B)(1) above.
         (a)   Do not allow children to play with hose or sprinklers.
         (b)   Limit car washing.
         (c)   Be ready to catch rainfall that occurs. Place containers under
drain spouts.
         (d)   Use leftover household water if available.
         (e)   Consider delaying the seeding or sodding of new lawns.
         (f)   Determine the amount of water being used outdoors by comparing
water bills for summer and winter.
      (3)   Conservation for mandatory conservation phase (in addition to
measures listed in divisions (B)(1) and (2) above).
         (a)   Vegetable gardens and food trees should be given minimal amounts
of water on an individual basis only.
         (b)   Do not water lawns and inedible plants.
         (c)   Do not use sprinklers.
      (4)   Emergency conservation. Most outdoor watering is prohibited under
emergency conservation conditions.
   (C)   Commercial uses.
      (1)   Reduce laundry usage or services by changing bed linens, etc. only
when necessary to preserve the health of patients or residents.
      (2)   Use disposable food service items.
      (3)   Identify and repair all leaky fixtures and water-using equipment.
Give special attention to equipment connected directly to water lines, such as
processing machines, steam-using machines, washing machines, water-cooled air
conditioners, and furnaces.
      (4)   Assure that valves and solenoids that control water flows are shut
off completely when the water-using cycle is not engaged.
      (5)   Adjust water-using equipment to use the minimum amount of water
required to achieve its stated purpose.
      (6)   Shorten rinse cycles for laundry machines as much as possible;
implement lower water levels wherever possible.
      (7)   For processing, cooling, and other uses, either re-use water or use
water from sources that would not adversely affect public water supplies.
      (8)   Advise employees, students, customers, and other users not to flush
toilets after every use. Install toilet tank displacement inserts; place flow
restrictors in shower heads and faucets; close down automatic flushes
overnight.
      (9)   Install automatic flushing valves to use as little water as
possible or to cycle at longer intervals.
      (10)   Place water-saving posters and literature where employees,
students, customers, etc. will have access to them.
      (11)   Check meters on a frequent basis to determine consumptive
patterns.
      (12)   Review usage patterns to see where other savings can be made.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2008; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.08 PUBLIC COMMENT.
   Customers will have multiple opportunities to comment on the provisions of
the Water Shortage Response Plan. First, a draft Plan will be will be available
at the village offices for customers to view. A notice will be included in
customer water bill notifying them of such. All subsequent revisions to the
draft Plan will be published at least 30 days prior to an adoption vote by the
Village Council.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.09 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The effectiveness of the Water Shortage Response Plan will be determined by
comparing the stated water conservation goals with observed water use reduction
data. Other factors to be considered include frequency of plan activation, any
problem periods without activation, total number of violation citations,
desired reductions attained and evaluation of demand reductions compared to the
previous year's seasonal data.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.10 REVISION.
   The Water Shortage Response Plan will be reviewed and revised as needed to
adapt to new circumstances affecting water supply and demand, following
implementation of emergency restrictions, and at a minimum of every five years
in conjunction with the updating of the local water supply plan. Further, a
Water Shortage Response Planning Work Group will review procedures following
each emergency or rationing stage to recommend any necessary improvements to
the Plan to Village Council, The Village Clerk is responsible for initiating
all subsequent revisions.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.11 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflict with other laws. Whenever the requirements of this chapter
conflict with the requirements of another statute, or another ordinance, the
more restrictive standard shall govern.
   (B)   Severability. Should any section or provision in this chapter be
declared invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such declaration shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any
part thereof which is not specifically declared to be invalid or
unconstitutional.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. passed 2-23-2018)
CHAPTER 98: DILAPIDATED, DETERIORATED, OR DISTRESSED STRUCTURES
Section
   
98.01   Dilapidated, deteriorated, or distressed structures; list
   
98.02   Investigation; posting; notice
   
98.03   Hearing
   
98.04   Order to remedy
   
98.05   Appeals; condemnation
   
98.06   Demolition and disposal by owner
   
98.07   Demolition by village; lien for costs
   
98.08   Lien; filing and collection
   
98.09   Existing actions and violations
§ 98.01 DILAPIDATED, DETERIORATED, OR DISTRESSED STRUCTURES; LIST.
   A list of dilapidated, deteriorated, or distressed structures shall be kept
in the Zoning Administrator's Office listing the address, owner(s), tax PIN
number, and photograph of each structure. The list may come from citizen
complaints, as well as from staff observations. Anonymous complaints shall be
verified before action is taken. Priority shall be given to sites in close
proximity to residences, schools, and businesses.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 98.02 INVESTIGATION; POSTING; NOTICE.
   The Rutherford County Building Inspector, in consultation with the
Rutherford County Fire Inspector, shall investigate for conditions that are
dangerous and injurious to public health, safety and welfare and identify
circumstances under which a public necessity exists for the repair, closing or
demolition of such structures based upon G.S. 160A to G.S. § 160A-432 and G.S.
§ 160A-439. Proper posting of the property, as determined by the County
Building Inspector and the County Fire Inspector, shall be given by placing a
notice upon the main entrance of the structure. Notice shall be sent by the
Chimney Rock Village Zoning Administrator to the owner(s) of a structure that
has been so identified by certified mail at the owner's last known address, and
notice of a public hearing before the Chimney Rock Village Council shall be
given in the letter with an established time, date, and location not less than
10 or more than 45 days after the date of the notice, as per G.S. §§ 160A-426
to 160A-432 and G.S. § 160A-439. If the name or the whereabouts of the owner(s)
cannot be located after due diligence, a notice of a hearing shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation at least once, but not later than 10 days
before the hearing.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 98.03 HEARING.
   A staff hearing shall be held to assess the necessity of condemnation,
demolition, repairs, and any other remedies for the structure. Staff level
hearings may consist of the County Building Inspector, the County Fire
Inspector, and the Village Zoning Administrator, the Village Finance Director,
and the Village Clerk. Following the meeting, the County Building Inspector may
issue any order to repair, close, vacate, condemn, or demolish the structure,
as decided at the staff meeting.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 98.04 ORDER TO REMEDY.
   The County Building Inspector, in consultation with the County Fire
Inspector, shall issue a written order, directed to the owner(s) of the
structure, requiring the owner(s) of the structure to remedy the defective
conditions within 60 days of the written order. If there is imminent danger to
life or other property, it is at the discretion of the County Building
Inspector to prescribe corrective action to be taken in a lesser period.
Failure to comply within the 60 day period could result in condemnation and
demolition.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 98.05 APPEALS; CONDEMNATION.
   The Village Council shall serve in the capacity as the final appellate board
for the condemnation and or demolition of the structure(s), and such order
shall be signed by the Mayor, or the Mayor's designee, and kept on file in the
Village Clerk's Office. After the staff level hearing, if the order to condemn
the structure still stands, the property owner(s) shall have the opportunity to
furnish a written notice of appeal to the Village Council within 10 days of the
order being issued. In the absence of an appeal, the decision rendered at the
staff level hearing is final. Every condemnation order shall be signed by the
Mayor, or Mayor's designee, before physical demolition shall take place.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 98.06 DEMOLITION AND DISPOSAL BY OWNER.
   The owner(s) of a posted property shall have the option to demolish, clean
up, and dispose of the structure at a permitted landfill, and shall address any
asbestos, lead paint, or other toxic waste issues in a proper manner.
Demolition permits must be obtained from the Village Zoning Administrator's
Office and the proper disposal of any asbestos, lead paint, or other toxic
waste is required. Structure debris will not be permitted to be buried on site.
Remains of the structure shall not be moved on the current site or transferred
to another site. Burning on site will be permitted only after permits are
obtained from the County Fire Inspector, the Fire Administrator's Office, and
the NCDENR Air Quality Davison. It shall be required of the owner(s) to produce
to the Village Zoning Administrator receipts from the permitted landfill or
recycling center where the materials were disposed of to ensure compliance with
the chapter within 15 days after the structure was demolished.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 98.07    DEMOLITION BY VILLAGE; LIEN FOR COSTS.
   After due notice being provided to the owner(s) as above stated, and the
exhaustion of all appeals of the condemnation order, Chimney Rock Village may
initiate the removal or demolition of the structure(s). The costs of such
demolition or removal shall become a lien against the real property upon which
the cost was incurred, including, but not limited to, costs of removal,
disposal, filing fees, reasonable attorney fees, and the like.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 98.08 LIEN; FILING AND COLLECTION.
   The lien shall be filed with the Clerk of Superior Court Office and shall
have the same priority as a lis pendens against the real property and can be
collected in the same manner as a lien for special assessments including an
actual sale of the said real property to recover all costs incurred by the
village.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
§ 98.09 EXISTING ACTIONS AND VIOLATIONS.
   The enactment of this chapter shall in no way affect the running of any
amortization provision or enforcement actions, or otherwise cure any existing
violations.
(Ord. 01-12, passed 10-16-2012)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
112.   FORMULA BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Control; public display and consumption
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 CONTROL; PUBLIC DISPLAY AND CONSUMPTION.
   The Village Council adopts the following chapter governing the public
display and consumption of malt beverages, unfortified wines, fortified wines,
spirituous liquors or mixed beverages within the municipal limits of the
incorporated village:
   (A)   No person shall display or consume malt beverages, unfortified wines,
fortified wines, spirituous liquors, or mixed beverages, as defined in G.S. §
18B-101, on or within the rights-of way of the public streets, alleys, or
sidewalks, or on any public or private properties commonly used by the general
public, such as parking lots, river banks, river, or common open areas,
excepting the Chimney Rock Village Amphitheater.
   (B)   Private property being used by the owner or those provided specific
permission to use private property are exempted from this chapter but are
subject to all other applicable alcoholic beverage control laws within the
State of North Carolina.
(2002 Code, Ch. 100, § 100.01) (Am. Ord. 02-12, passed 9-18-2012) Penalty, see
§
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Violators of this chapter are subject to all the penalties as are provided
within this Code of Ordinances and any other such penalties as may be
applicable within the State of North Carolina.
(2002 Code, Ch. 100, § 100.01)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Unlawful to peddle
   
111.03   Sale of articles within the right-of-way boundaries
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ESTABLISHED MERCHANT. Any person or business that is licensed in North
Carolina, or is registered in North Carolina with a privilege license or has a
valid sales tax license and engages in the lawful sales of products or
services, either as the property owner or tenant of the property from which
business is transacted.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person not being an established merchant of the
village, who shall expose for sale, either on the street or street right-of-
way, any goods, wares or articles of merchandise. Exception for fresh fruits,
vegetables and similar food products grown on the same property; yard sales not
more than one per quarter located on the property on which the sale is taking
place; and sales on the premises of the Chimney Rock Volunteer Fire Department.
   PEDDLER. Any person engaged in the act of peddling articles or merchandise.
   PEDDLING. The sale or offering for sale from house to house, or business to
business, by any person from a cart, truck automobile, or other vehicle
operated over and upon the streets and highways any articles of merchandise,
including, without limitations, fresh fruits and vegetables, farm products,
household medicines, remedies and other articles.
(2002 Code, § 62.10) (Am. Ord. passed 7-21-2009; Am. Ord. passed 12-16-2014)
§ 111.02 UNLAWFUL TO PEDDLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or itinerant merchant to peddle any
articles of merchandise within the village. Charitable and non-profit
organizations or special events may be exempted from this requirement upon
request made in writing to the Council a minimum of 21 days prior to a regular
meeting of the Council. Exemption requests shall be presented to the Village
Clerk.
(2002 Code, § 62.10) (Am. Ord. passed 7-21-2009; Am. Ord. passed 12-16-2014)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 SALE OF ARTICLES WITHIN THE RIGHT-OF-WAY BOUNDARIES.
   No person shall sell articles of merchandise from any location within the
right-of-way boundaries of any public street or highway within the village.
(2002 Code, § 62.10) (Am. Ord. 7-21-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: FORMULA BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Applicability
   
112.03   Prohibited uses in all zoning districts
   
112.04   Legal status provisions
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COFFEEHOUSE. Small restaurant type facilities serving various beverages and
which may serve other refreshments such as pastries and the like.
   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. An eating place, whether a principal use or accessory
use, which sells:
      (1)   Prepared food intended for consumption in vehicles that may or may
not be parked on the site; or
      (2)   Provides for the ordering of food while the customers are seated in
vehicles.
   DRIVE-THROUGH RESTAURANT. A restaurant having drive-up window and paved area
serving as a queuing or staging area for motorists to receive food that they
have ordered.
   DRIVE-UP WINDOW. Having a window opening to the outdoors designed to furnish
food or beverages to motorists.
   FAST FOOD RESTAURANT. An eating place, whether a principal use or accessory
use, selling food to be consumed on or off the site and (a) food is quickly
made upon the customer’s order or pre-made and wrapped before customers place
orders, and /or (b) food is served with disposable tableware for on-site food
consumption. A FAST FOOD RESTAURANT also exhibits two or more of the following
characteristics: food is ordered from a wall menu at a service counter; food
consumed on the premises is ordered while customers are standing; payment is
made by customers before food is consumed; the service counter is closer to an
entry/exit than is the seating/dining area, maintains a drive-up or walk-up
window.
   FORMULA/STANDARDIZED BUSINESS. A group or chain of 5 or more establishments
which satisfies at least 2 of the following descriptions: the same name or
similar name, same brand or trade name or trademark as others in the same group
or chain, logos, standard group characteristics, décor, employee uniforms,
exterior design or architecture, signage, required by contract to sell only
standardized services or products.
   FULL-SERVICE RESTAURANT. An eating place, whether a principal use or
accessory use, serving a full line of prepared food and drinks using either
non-disposable or disposable plates, glasses and utensils for immediate
consumption on the site. The business provides tables and chairs, table
service, and is available to persons of all ages. The use shall not exhibit the
characteristics of a drive-in, formula or fast food establishment .Customers
normally are provided with individual menus while seated at a table or standing
at a counter. Food sold for consumption off the premises shall be incidental to
the primary use.
   LODGING FACILITIES. Accommodations such as motels, hotels and inns, and
shall include campgrounds and recreational vehicles facilities.
   RETAIL STORE. The sale of goods or commodities in small quantities directly
to consumers from a fixed location.
   TAKE-OUT RESTAURANT. An eating place, whether a principal use or accessory
use, selling ready-to- eat, prepared food for consumption off the site.
   WALK-UP WINDOW. Having a window opening to the outdoors designed to furnish
food or beverages to pedestrians.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2011)
§ 112.02 APPLICABILITY.
   The establishments considered for the purposes of this chapter to be formula
or standardized business include retail stores, food service restaurants,
coffeehouses, hair stylist salons, and lodging facilities.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2011)
§ 112.03 PROHIBITED USES IN ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Formula (standardized) businesses, as defined herein.
   (B)   Formula/standardized retail stores.
   (C)   Formula/standardized coffeehouses.
   (D)   Formula/standardized food service restaurants, which include drive-in
restaurant, drive-through restaurant, fast food restaurant, take-out
restaurant.
   (E)   Formula/standardized hair stylist salons.
   (F)   Formula/standardized lodging facilities
(Ord. passed 6-21-2011)
§ 112.04 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   Conflict with other laws. Whenever the requirements of this chapter conflict
with the requirements of another statute, or another ordinance, the more
restrictive standard shall govern.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2011)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Discharge of firearms
   
130.02   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.03   Injury to village property
   
130.04   No smoking permitted in public areas
   
130.05   Nuisances
   
130.06   Skateboards and skates
Loud, Disturbing and Raucous Noise
   
130.20   Unnecessary and persistent noise
   
130.21   Scope
   
130.22   Definitions
   
130.23   General regulation
   
130.24   Sound measurement
   
130.25   Vehicle inspection
   
130.26   Maximum sound levels
   
130.27   Exceptions
   
130.28   Prohibitions
   
130.29   Non-exclusivity
   
130.30   Enforcement
Outdoor Events
   
130.40   Restricted generally
   
130.41   Application fee; agreement
   
130.42   Requirements
   
130.43   Application
   
130.44   Denial of permit
   
130.45   Appeal
   
130.46   Exceptions
   
130.47   Revocation of permit
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any firearm,
rifle, gun, pistol, or other such weapon within 200 feet of the primary
vehicular artery (U.S. Hwy 64/74-A) as it passes through the village municipal
limits.
   (B)   Only in areas beyond the immediate business district, and at a
distance greater than 200 feet beyond the primary vehicular artery (U.S. Hwy
64/74-A) as it passes through the village municipal limits, would the uses of
any firearm be appropriate for hunting by the property owner, or when
permission has been provided by the owner to persons accessing property for the
purpose of hunting.
(Ord. passed 9-18-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or to
create any disturbance at or near any public activity, entertainment, official
or unofficial meeting.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.02) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 INJURY TO VILLAGE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure, damage, deface, trespass upon, break or
injure any property belonging to the village.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 NO SMOKING PERMITTED IN PUBLIC AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke, burn or use any tobacco
product within any building or facility owned, leased, occupied, managed,
controlled and/or exclusively operated by the municipality of Chimney Rock
Village, except in designated smoking areas. The Village Council shall have the
authority to designate smoking areas within each municipal building or
facility. An area within a building or facility may be designated as a smoking
area only if the ventilation of the area is sufficient that any adverse impact
on municipal employees and members of the public is minimal, and no fire or
other safety hazard will be created by smoking in the area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke, burn or use any tobacco
product within any vehicle now or hereafter owned or leased by the municipality
of Chimney Rock Village.
   (C)   This section controlling tobacco use shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Police or law enforcement vehicles; and/or
      (2)   Fire Department or emergency management vehicles.
   (D)   Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable in
accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 NUISANCES.
   Continuing nuisances are prohibited, which shall mean any 1 or combination
of the following:
   (A)   Any physical condition, any attractive nuisance, or any action which
may prove detrimental to health, repose, safety or neighboring property value;
   (B)   Any action or condition that disturbs the peace, the tranquillity;
disturbs or annoys the inhabitants of the surrounding area; and/or
   (C)   Any physical condition that may constitute a fire hazard as determined
by a fire official.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.08)
Cross-reference:
   Dilapidated, deteriorated, or distressed structures, see
Chapter 98
   Weeds, grass and refuse, see
Chapter 95
§ 130.06 SKATEBOARDS AND SKATES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      POTENTIALLY HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY. Skateboarding and skating.
      INHERENT RISK. Those dangers or conditions that are characteristic of,
intrinsic to, or an integral part of skateboarding and skating.
   (B)   No person may ride roller skates, roller blades, in-line skates, or
skateboards upon any municipal owned parking lot.
   (C)   No person upon roller skates, roller blades, in-line skates, or
skateboards shall at any time interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
(Ord. passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
LOUD, DISTURBING AND RAUCOUS NOISE
§ 130.20 UNNECESSARY AND PERSISTENT NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, create or assist in creating,
permit, continue or permit the continuance of loud, raucous or disturbing
noise, which term shall mean any sound which, because of its volume, intensity,
audibility, duration or character, annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the
comfort, health, enjoyment of life or property, peace, quietude or good order
or the safety of reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities within the
village. It is the policy of the village that the residents and visitors have a
right to and should be ensured an environment free from excessive noise that
may jeopardize their health, welfare, safety or degrade the quality of life.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.04) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.21 SCOPE.
   This subchapter shall apply to all sound, sound vibration, and noise
originating within the corporate limits and the exterritorial jurisdiction of
Chimney Rock Village. Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit or
prevent the village or any person from pursuing any other legal remedies for
damages or the abatement of noises in the village.
(Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBIENT SOUND LEVEL. The all-encompassing noise associated with a given
environment, being a composite of sounds from many sources, near and far.
AMBIENT SOUND LEVEL is the average noise level excluding random or intermittent
noises and excluding the alleged offensive noise.
   AMPLIFIED SOUND. Any sound or noise, including the human voice, that is
increased in volume or intensity by means of mechanical and / or electrical
power.
   ANEMOMETER. An instrument used to test and measure the wind speed, with an
accuracy of +/- 10% at 20 mph.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound level pressure level in decibels as
measured on a sound level meter using the A-weighting network proscribed for
sound level meters which is designed to reflect the acuity of the human ear.
The level so read is designated dB(A) or dBA.
   A-WEIGHTING SCALE. A sound filtering system contained in a sound meter that
adjusts (weights) the incoming sound energy to approximate human hearing.
   BACKGROUND SOUND LEVEL. See AMBIENT SOUND LEVEL.
   CALIBRATOR. A device used to standardize the reading of a sound meter or
other device.
   CONSTRUCTION. The erection, repair, assembly, alteration, landscaping, or
demolition of any building or building site.
   CONTINUOUS NOISE. A noise level that is without interruption in the same
mode. Examples would be machinery such as a pump or blower. Sound measurements
shall be made with the sound level meter using the A-weighting scale and on the
slow response setting.
   DECIBEL OR DB(A). A unit to measure the amplitude of sounds. As a sound
measured in decibels increases, so does its loudness.
   FIELD CALIBRATION. Calibration of the sound level meter using an external
sound level calibrator for the purpose of ensuring the accuracy of sound level
readings.
   IMPULSIVE NOISE. A noise characterized by brief excursions of sound pressure
whose peak levels are much greater than the ambient noise level, typically with
short duration. Examples would be noise from a gunshot or firecracker. Sound
measurements shall be made with the sound level meter using the A- weighting
scale and on the fast response setting.
   INTERMITTENT NOISE. A noise level that cycles or is discontinuous, or a
noise level that increases and decreases. Examples would be noise from a
passing airplane or vehicle. Sound measurements shall be made with the sound
level meter using the A-weighting scale and on the fast response setting.
   MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any vehicle as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(49) including, but
not limited to:
      (1)   Excursion passenger vehicles as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)a.
      (2)   Common carriers of passengers as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)c.
      (3)   Motorcycles and mopeds as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)d. and d.1.
      (4)   Truck tractors as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(48).
      (5)   Farm tractors as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(11).
   NOISE. Any sound that annoys or disturbs humans or that causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound or noise which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the health or safety of humans or animals;
      (2)   Endangers or injures personal or real property; or
      (3)   Disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensitivity or interferes
with normal human activity.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, for purposes of this subchapter, a
sound will be considered a NOISE DISTURBANCE if it exceeds the decibel level
thresholds established by the sound level according to the time of day.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, firm, partnership, corporation, or
business entity.
   REVOLUTIONS PER MINUTE (RPM). The number of times the crankshaft of an
engine revolves in 1 minute.
   SOUND. Any disturbance of the air or other medium that is detectable by the
unaided human ear or which produces vibrations detectable by reasonable persons
of normal sensitivity.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument that includes an omnidirectional
microphone, a windscreen, an amplifier, an output meter, and frequency-
weighting network for measurement of sound level, such as the A-weighting
scale. A sound meter shall be a Type 1, Type S1A, Type 2 or Type S2A meter,
meeting the standards specified by the ANSI S1.4-1983 (R2006). Sound meters
shall be operated and calibrated as recommended by the manufacturer.
   STATIC OR STATIONARY NOISE LEVEL TEST. Test levels are checked by utilizing
a sound meter according to the methods and standards contained in this
subchapter.
   TACHOMETER. A device used to measure revolutions per minute (RPM) of an
engine. TACHOMETERS may be permanently affixed to the vehicle, or may be
portable units such as hand-held electric, vibrating reed, or inductive
tachometers.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.04) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.23 GENERAL REGULATION.
   Except as allowed in this subchapter, no person shall willfully engage in
any activity within the village, whether on private or public property, which
activity produces or constitutes a noise disturbance on neighboring premises or
on a public area.
(Ord. passed 7-19-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.24 SOUND MEASUREMENT.
   (A)   Sound from a vehicle operating on a public road or highway shall be
measured at a distance
of 25 feet or greater from the center of the lane of travel.
      Vehicle Sound Test Procedure:
      Noise sound levels shall be measured at a height of at least 4 feet above
the immediate surrounding surface and at least 8 feet away from reflective
surfaces; which include any person, building, tree trunk, vehicle or any other
obstruction other than the person making the measurement. The sound level shall
be recorded, along with the description of the vehicle that is the source of
the dominant noise, the vehicle’s approximate location, the location of the
measurement, the approximate time of the measurement, sufficient information to
identify the instrument used and its settings, calibrations, weather, wind
speed, ambient sound level, and the name of the person taking the measurement.
   (B)   Sound from a vehicle operating on private property or public property
which is not a road or highway, shall be measured 25 feet from the dwelling
nearest the sound source at issue.
      Vehicle Sound Test Procedure:
      Noise sound levels shall be measured at a height of at least 4 feet above
the immediate surrounding surface and at least 8 feet away from reflective
surfaces; which include any person, building, tree trunk, vehicle or any other
obstruction other than the person making the measurement. The sound level shall
be recorded, along with the description of the vehicle that is the source of
the dominant noise, the vehicle’s approximate location, the location of the
measurement, the approximate time of the measurement, sufficient information to
identify the instrument used and its settings, calibrations, weather, wind
speed, ambient sound level, and the name of the person taking the measurement.
   (C)   Sound from a non-vehicular source shall be measured 25 feet beyond the
property line from which the sound originates, or if that is not physically
possible or practical, measurement may be taken in the right-of-way of any
public street or highway.
      Non-Vehicular Sound Test Procedure:
      Noise sound levels shall be measured at a height of at least 4 feet above
the immediate surrounding surface and at least 8 feet away from reflective
surfaces; which include any person, building, tree trunk, vehicle or any other
obstruction other than the person making the measurement. The sound level shall
be recorded, along with the description of the source of the dominant noise,
the source’s approximate location, the location of the measurement, the
approximate time of the measurement, sufficient information to identify the
instrument used and its settings, weather, wind speed, ambient sound level, and
the name of the person taking the measurement, name of complainant, if known.
   (D)   Sound from a parked, non-moving vehicle for a roadside static or
stationary noise level test shall be measured in accordance with the following
methods and standards:
      (1)   Test site. The test site should be an open surface free of large
reflecting surfaces, (other than the ground), parked vehicles, signboards,
buildings, large rocks or hillsides located within a 8-foot radius of the
vehicle being tested and the location of the microphone of the sound level
meter.
      (2)   Ambient conditions. The ambient conditions shall be observed during
measurements:
         (a)   Wind speed. Sound level measurements shall not be made when wind
speed is in excess of:
            1.   Twenty mph for the close static or stationary noise level
tests; or
            2.   Twelve mph for all other tests.
         (b)   Precipitation. Sound level measurements shall not be made when
precipitation is falling in such a manner to affect the equipment or the
measurement readings.
         (c)   Background sound level. The ambient sound level, including wind
effects, at the test site due to sources other than the sound source being
measured, shall be at least 10 dB(A) lower than the sound produced by the
vehicle under test.
      (3)   Battery check. A battery check shall be conducted on all
instruments before calibration and measurement.
      (4)   Wind speed check. An anemometer shall be used to check wind speed
for determining ambient conditions prior to sound level measurements.
      (5)   Sound meter. Calibration of the sound level meter using an
acoustically coupled sound level calibrator with an accuracy of +/- 0.5 dB
shall be made immediately before the first test of the day; and prior to the
test and after the test. Field calibration should be made at intervals not
exceeding 2 hours when the instrument is to be used for more than a 2-hour
period. A type 1 or type 2 sound level meter shall be used. The sound level
meter shall be returned once per year to the manufacturer or to a qualified
laboratory, to be calibrated to standards traceable to the ANSI S1.4-1983
standards. The sound meter shall be set for the A-weighting scale and shall be
set for slow dynamic response.
      (6)   Tachometer. (For set or swept RPM tests) The tachometer shall be
either of 1 of 2 types: electric or vibrating reed. The electric tachometer
shall be an inductive type pickup type of easy attachment to any spark plug,
containing its own external power supply. The vibrating reed tachometer shall
be designed for use on any internal combustion engine. All tachometers shall be
calibrated once per year in accordance with the manufacturer specifications.
      (7)   Sound level measurements.
         (a)   While making sound level measurements, not more than 1 person
other than the operator, the measurer, and the assistant, if necessary, shall
be within 8 feet of the vehicle under test or the microphone of the sound level
meter and that person shall be directly behind the measurer on a line through
the microphone and the sound level meter and the measurer. For 2-wheeled
vehicles, the operator may sit astride of the vehicle, in a normal riding
position with both feet on the ground. If that is not possible because of the
seat height of the vehicle, an assistant may hold the vehicle by the forks,
front wheel or handlebars so that it is stationary with its longitudinal plane
of symmetry vertical.
         (b)   The engine of the vehicle being tested shall be at normal
operating temperature during the test. Tests shall be made on each side of the
vehicle having an exhaust outlet. The microphone of the sound level meter shall
be located 20 inches, +/- ½ inch, behind the exhaust outlet. If there is more
than 1 exhaust outlet per side, the microphone of the sound level meter shall
be located with reference to the rear most outlet. The microphone of the sound
level meter shall be at the same height as the center of the exhaust outlet if
possible, but no closer to any surface than 8 inches. The microphone of the
sound level meter shall be at a 45 degree angle, +/- 10 degrees, to the normal
travel line of the vehicle. The longitudinal axis of the sound level meter
shall be in a plane parallel to the ground plane. No wire or rigid means of
distance measurement shall be attached to the sound level measuring system. A
windscreen of open cell foam, or other acoustically invisible material as shall
be provided by the manufacturer, shall be placed over the microphone to protect
it from moisture, exhaust gases and wind effects.
      (8)   Automotive and diesel test.
         (a)   Automobile and diesel engine test RPM. 
            1.   Automobiles and trucks. The sound level measurement shall be
made with the engine speed stabilized at 2,500 RPM.
            2.   Diesel engine vehicles. The sound level measurements shall be
made at the vehicle’s maximum governed no-load speed. If the engine is not
provided with a governor, the vehicle shall be operated at 2,500 RPM.
         (b)   Automobile and diesel engine test IDLE. The engine of the
vehicle under test shall be at normal operating temperature. The engine shall
be run at idle speed. If the engine will not run without stalling, the throttle
shall be opened the minimum amount required to keep the engine running. The
engine shall be run at idle speed for at least 5 seconds.
         (c)   Motorcycle test IDLE and RPM. 
            1.   Idle test. The engine of the motorcycle under test shall be at
normal operating temperature. The engine shall be run at idle speed. If the
engine will not run without stalling, the throttle shall be opened the minimum
amount required to keep the engine running. The engine shall be run at idle
speed for at least 5 seconds.
            2.   Set RPM test. The sound level measurement shall be made with
the engine speed stabilized at 1 of the following values:
               a.   For less than 3 cylinders or more than 4 cylinders test
motorcycle at 2,000 RPM (+/- 200 RPM) or 75% of maximum engine speed whichever
is less; or
               b.   For 3 cylinders or 4 cylinders test motorcycle at 5,000 RPM
(+/- 200 RPM) or 75% of maximum engine speed whichever is less.
         (d)   Sound level. The recorded sound level shall be the highest value
obtained at the appropriate, constant engine speed and shall exclude peaks due
to unrelated ambient noise, engine noise or extraneous impulsive-type noise. At
least 2 measurements shall be made.
      (9)   Test recording. The sound level shall be recorded, along with the
description of the vehicle being the source of the noise, the location of the
measurement, the approximate time of the measurement, sufficient information to
identify the various instruments used and their settings, calibration, battery
check, weather, wind speed, ambient background sound level, results of the
sound level test, and the name of the person, along with any assistant(s)
taking the measurement.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.04) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.25 VEHICLE INSPECTION.
   (A)   An inspection of the vehicle may be conducted to see if the following
defects or modifications exist:
      (1)   The absence of a muffler;
      (2)   The presence of a muffler cut-out, bypass or similar device which
is not standard or normal equipment for the exhaust system being inspected;
      (3)   Defects, including but not limited to, holes or rusted areas
through the muffler or pipes;
      (4)   The presence of equipment which may produce excessive or unusual
noise from the exhaust system, such as a straight pipe or a hollow core
muffler;
      (5)   It has a muffler labeled for off-road competition; and
      (6)   Operation of a motorcycle manufactured after 31 December 1982 that
is not equipped with an exhaust muffler bearing the Federal EPA required
labeling compliance applicable to the motorcycle’s model year, as set out in
the Code of Federal Regulations; or that exceeds a measured noise level of more
than the maximum sound levels established in §
130.26 MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS.
   (B)   Using the human ear as a sensing device, if the exhaust noise is
discernibly louder than the engine noise, or if any of the defects or
modifications listed above exist, then the vehicle operator may be requested to
submit the vehicle to sound level measure procedures contained in this section.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.04) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.26 MAXIMUM SOUND LEVELS.
   The following are established as maximum sound levels:
   (A)   Vehicular source other than a motorcycle operating on a public road or
highway: maximum sound level may not exceed 92 dB(A).
   (B)   Other vehicular source other than a motorcycle operating on private
property or public property which is not a road or highway: maximum sound level
may not exceed 92 dB(A).
   (C)   Non vehicular source:
      (a)   Daytime/evening hours: 7:00 a.m. until 11:00 p.m., maximum sound
level may not exceed 65 dB(A).
      (b)   Nighttime hours: 11:01 p.m. until 6:59 a.m., maximum sound level
may not exceed 60 dB(A).
   (D)   Vehicular roadside static or stationary noise level test - idle or RPM
rest:
      (1)   Automotive vehicle maximum sound level may not exceed: 92 dB(A);
      (2)   Light trucks under 10,000 lbs. - maximum sound level may not
exceed: 92 dB(A);
      (3)   Trucks 10,000 lbs. and over - maximum sound level may not exceed:
92 dB(A);
      (4)   Motorcycle maximum sound levels may not exceed:
         (a)   Idle test 92 dB(A);
         (b)   Set RPM less than 3, more than 4 cylinders 96 dB(A);
         (c)   Set RPM 3 or 4 cylinders 100 dB(A).
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.04) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.27 EXCEPTIONS.
   Sound or noise associated with the following are excepted from the
application of this subchapter:
   (A)   Construction activity performed by an agency of government provided
that all equipment is operated in accordance with manufacturer’s specifications
and is equipped with all noise-reducing equipment in proper condition;
   (B)   Construction or repair work and regulated activities of utilities
regulated by the North Carolina Utilities Commission;
   (C)   Construction activities associated with building construction and home
improvements between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.;
   (D)   Lawnmowers and other turf management equipment operated between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. when operated in accordance with
manufacturer’s specifications and with all standard noise reducing equipment in
place and in proper condition;
   (E)   Refuse collection vehicles operating during daylight hours;
   (F)   Safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure relief valves, and
church bells and chimes;
   (G)   Outdoor entertainment events and events at the Gathering Place
Amphitheater only to the extent authorized in an event permit issued by the
village;
   (H)   Film and video production activities for which permits have been
issued by the village; provided all equipment such as generators are properly
muffled;
   (I)   Lawful fireworks;
   (J)   Properly equipped aircraft operated in accordance with applicable
federal rules and regulations;
   (K)   Governmental emergency vehicles and firearms in the course of the
performance of official duties;
   (L)   Emergency vehicles; and
   (M)   Agricultural equipment/land clearing operations/tree harvesting
operated between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. when operated in
accordance with manufacturer’s specifications and with all standard noise
reducing equipment in place and in proper condition.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.04) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.28 PROHIBITIONS.
   The following acts are declared to be loud, annoying, frightening,
disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this section. Any of the
following acts, among others for which the enumeration shall not be deemed to
be exclusive, which result in the creation of noise which exceeds the
applicable sound levels are prohibited. In the absence of a specific maximum
noise level, a noise level which exceeds the ambient noise level by 5 dB(A) or
more, when measured at the nearest property line shall be deemed a prima facie
violation of this subchapter. Although a violation may occur without a
measuring test, for the purpose of determining and classifying any noise as
loud, disturbing, and raucous, the following tests or measurements may be
applied.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle unless the motor vehicle
is equipped with a muffler, or other exhaust system of the type installed at
time of manufacture, in good working and is in constant operation to prevent
excessive loud, raucous and disturbing noise. The original noise abatement
devices shall not have been:
         (a)   Physically altered causing them to be less effective in reducing
noise;
         (b)   Either removed or replaced by noise abatement devices which are
not as effective in reducing noises as the original devices such as straight
pipes or hollow core mufflers; or
         (c)   Altered with devices added to the original noise abatement
devices, such that the noise levels are increased.
      (2)   No person shall create unnecessary loud, raucous or disturbing
noise by operating any motor vehicle by the rapid throttle advance and throttle
closing of an internal combustion engine, thereby sharply increasing and
decreasing the rpm’s (revving), resulting in increased noise from the engine.
      (3)   No person shall create unnecessary loud, raucous or disturbing
noise by operating an un-mufflered “Jake Brake” on a motor vehicle resulting in
increased noise from the engine, unless the “Jake Brake” is used for emergency
purposes.
   (B)   The sounding of any horn or signal device or any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if another vehicle is approaching out of control, or if in motion
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of any such device for
an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (C)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police, fire
or other emergency vehicles;
   (D)   The use or operation of any air horn, piano, musical instrument,
manual or automatic music player, phonograph, radio, loudspeaker or any other
instrument, or sound amplifying devices so loudly as to disturb persons in the
vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as renders the same a public nuisance;
   (E)   The owning, possessing, harboring or controlling of any animal which
barks, bays, cries or makes any other noise continuously or incessantly for a
period of 10 minutes or makes the noise intermittently for ½ hour or more
causing a noise disturbance; provided however, that at the time the animal is
making the noise no person is trespassing or threatening to trespass upon
private property in or upon which the animal is situated;
   (F)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building or structure in a residential or business district other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.; except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit or
letter from the Mayor or designee, which permit may be renewed for a period of
3 days while the emergency continues;
   (G)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any stationary
internal combustion engine or motor vehicle except through a muffler or other
device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom;
   (H)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, court or public meeting facility, or within
150 feet of any hospital or medical office or facility, which unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution, provided conspicuous signs are
displayed indicating that the same is a school, court, public facility or
medical facility;
   (I)   The sounding of any bell, gong, loudspeaker or amplifier attached to
any building or premises which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the
vicinity thereof;
   (J)   The use of any drum, musical instrument, loudspeaker or amplifier or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation
of noise to any performance, display of merchandise, show or sale;
   (K)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other stationary or moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes;
and/or
   (L)   Operation of outdoor amplified music or public address systems between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.04) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.29 NON-EXCLUSIVITY.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent or limit any person
from seeking any remedy available in law or equity for activities that are or
may be subject to regulation by this subchapter, or from pursuing the remedy
simultaneously with proceedings under this subchapter, nor shall any of the
procedures specified herein be a condition precedent to the initiation of any
legal action.
(Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
§ 130.30 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations of the provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to
the criminal and civil penalties set forth in §
10.99 of this code. In addition to the penalties set forth therein, second or
subsequent violations of the provisions of this section by the same person for
the same activity occurring within one year of the first such violation shall
be subject to civil penalties as follows:
      First violation (per Village Code § 10.99)      $50.00
      Second violation               100.00
      Third violation               200.00
      Fourth or subsequent violation, per offense      300.00
   (B)   In addition to the penalties provided for above, the village may
enforce the provisions of this subchapter by appropriate equitable remedies.
   (C)   This subchapter may be enforced by the Rutherford County Sheriff, the
Town of Lake Lure Police Department, and by other persons or entities as
designated by the Village Council.
(Ord. passed 7-19-2011)
OUTDOOR EVENTS
§ 130.40 RESTRICTED GENERALLY.
   Outdoor events shall mean concerts, festivals, races, walks, triathlons,
circuses, carnivals, shows, exhibitions and similar outdoor events, whether
operated totally outdoors, or on stage, under tents or with the use of
temporary buildings or structures, to which the public are invited as
participants or spectators. Outdoor events shall not be permitted to locate in
the village except as provided in this subchapter.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003)
§ 130.41 APPLICATION FEE; AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The Village Council may, after an application has been filed and
reviewed, and after passage of an appropriate motion, permit events coming
under the provision of this subchapter to operate within the village for
temporary periods of time. The application shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator not less than 60 days in advance of the beginning date of the
event and shall contain a detailed proposal of the event. The applicant shall
pay a fee established by the Village Council when the application is filed and
submit any additional information required by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   If the information submitted by the applicant is responsive and if the
Zoning Administrator has reviewed and approved the application, the village
shall prepare and submit to the applicant an agreement incorporating the terms
and conditions listed in §
130.42 and the other terms and conditions as the village may specify.
   (C)   No person or organization shall hold an outdoor event prior to the
delivery to the village of properly executed copies of the agreement and
certificate of insurance provided for in this subchapter.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003)
§ 130.42 REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Outdoor events may be held in TB, CB, MR and CF Zoning Districts.
   (B)   The agreement for outdoor events shall contain the following terms and
conditions:
      (1)   The use of fireworks shall comply with all applicable state laws
and requires a permit from the Fire Department.
      (2)   Sanitary facilities shall be provided and shall be of the type and
in a sufficient number as to meet the requirements established by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide certification that the Rutherford
County Building Department has conducted electrical inspections of all
electrical facilities whether power is supplied by local utilities or is self-
provided by generator systems.
      (4)   Sponsors of events at which food or beverages will be sold or
distributed shall meet all applicable state and county health codes.
      (5)   Current flameproof certificates must be provided for all canvas
tents, awnings or canopies and shall be submitted for approval to the Fire
Department.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator may require the applicant to provide and
pay for security personnel for crowd control and traffic direction purposes,
and for the provision of emergency medical services. The Fire Department may
require the applicant to provide and pay for fire watch personnel.
      (7)   The applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance satisfactory
to the Village Council and the Village Attorney, the insurance to be
comprehensive general liability insurance in a minimum amount of $1,000,000
combined single limit coverage, naming the village as an additional insured.
The applicant shall also agree to indemnify and hold harmless the village for
any damage to person or property which might occur during or as a result of the
operation of the outdoor event.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003)
§ 130.43 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application, at a minimum, shall include:
      (1)   The name, address and phone number of the applicant;
      (2)   The purpose of the event and if the event is proposed to be
conducted for, on behalf of, or by an organization, the name, address and
telephone number of both the headquarters of the organization and its
authorized head, and a local number for the organization if there is 1;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person to be present
and responsible for the conduct of the event;
      (4)   The date(s) the event will be held;
      (5)   The proposed location of the event;
      (6)   The proposed times at which the event will begin and terminate;
      (7)   How the trash and debris will be handled;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the event will occupy all or a portion of
any streets, sidewalks, parks or other public places;
      (9)   The approximate number of persons, animals (if any) and vehicles
expected to participate, and the type of animals (if any) and a description of
any vehicles;
      (10)   Any alternate date proposed in case of inclement weather or other
emergency conditions arising between date of permit issuance and the event
date; and
      (11)   Any additional information which the Zoning Administrator shall
find reasonably necessary to a fair determination as to whether a permit should
be issued.
   (B)   The application, and information provided within, shall be a part of
any permit that is granted.
   (C)   If the event will create noise which will violate the noise ordinance,
a noise permit must also be obtained.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003)
§ 130.44 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The application for a permit will be denied if the Zoning
Administrator makes any of the findings listed below:
      (1)   Adequate provision cannot be made for safe and orderly movement of
both pedestrian and vehicular traffic contiguous to the event or within the
village.
      (2)   The event cannot be held without unreasonable interference with the
provision of normal police or fire protection or emergency services to the
public.
      (3)   The event cannot be held without unreasonable interference with the
right of property owners in the area to enjoy peaceful and lawful use and
occupancy of their property.
      (4)   The event will require the closing of, or unreasonably restrict the
flow of vehicular traffic along adjacent roadways.
   (B)   In the event the Zoning Administrator denies an application, the Clerk
shall notify the applicant, in writing, specifying the reasons for denial.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003)
§ 130.45 APPEAL.
   The action or decision of the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the
Village Council by the filing of a written “notice of appeal of the action of
the Zoning Administrator” and filed with the Village Mayor or his or her
designee. The written notice shall identify the person filing the appeal and
shall specify with particularity the facts and basis for the appeal. The
Village Council shall hear an appeal at the first regularly scheduled Village
Council meeting at which the law allows the matter to be considered following
receipt of the notice of appeal.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003)
§ 130.46 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Public schools, churches, governmental entities and other charitable
or non-profit organizations may hold events regulated by this subchapter at any
location or zoning district in the village, provided Village Council approval
is first obtained at a regularly scheduled Council meeting not less than 20
days prior to the event. A self-insured governmental entity may be exempted
from the insurance requirements only if prior approval is granted by the
Village Council.
   (B)   Events sponsored or co-sponsored by the village and held at village
facilities or on other property owned or controlled by a governmental entity
are exempt from the provisions of the ordinance, provided however, that the co-
sponsor of a co-sponsored event may be required to provide the required
insurance certificates at the option of the Village Council or the governmental
entity.
   (C)   Minor outdoor activities, which is an activity which will be attended
by less than 100 persons, which will have limited impact on traffic, parking
and noise in surrounding neighborhoods, and does not exceed the capacity of the
facility or the property proposed to be used, is exempted from the provisions
of this subchapter, if the Zoning Administrator determines that the above
provisions will be met. The relevant information shall be furnished to the
Zoning Administrator not less than 10 days in advance of the event in order to
assure compliance.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not apply to outdoor events at the Chimney Rock
Volunteer Fire Department Building.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003)
§ 130.47 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Zoning Administrator may revoke any permit for an event for the
following causes:
   (A)   The substantial violation of this subchapter or the terms and
conditions of the permit; or
   (B)   The violation of other laws by those participating in the event.
(2002 Code, Ch. 84, § 84.07) (Ord. passed 6-23-2003)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   SIGNS
      
152.   [RESERVED]
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PROTECTION
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Telecommunication Tower and Antenna
   
150.01   Permits required
   
150.02   Telecommunication and communication infrastructure towers
   
150.03   Sanctions
Building Regulations
   
150.20   Scope
   
150.21   Building code adopted
   
150.22   Plumbing code adopted
   
150.23   Heating code adopted
   
150.24   Electrical code adopted
   
150.25   Residential building code
   
150.26   Amendments to codes
   
150.27   Compliance to codes
   
150.28   Copies to be filed
   
150.29   Authorization for county inspection
   
150.30   Alternative remedies
   
150.31   Sanitary facilities
   
150.32   Foundation survey required
Land Disturbance, Erosion and Sedimentation Control
   
150.50   Purpose
   
150.51   Land disturbance permit required
   
150.52   Application
   
150.53   Permit review
   
150.54   Maintenance
   
150.55   Protection
   
150.56   Exemptions
   
150.57   Restoration
Steep Slope Development
   
150.70   Purpose
   
150.71   Definition
   
150.72   Average slope determination
   
150.73   Development regulated
   
150.74   Manufactured slope and new roadways
   
150.75   Structure height and location
   
150.76   Density
   
150.77   Steep slope development review process
   
150.78   Issuance of grading permit
   
150.79   Existing lots or parcels
   
150.80   Tree and other specified vegetation preservation
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   
Appendix: Procedures
Cross-reference:
   Dilapidated, deteriorated, or distressed structures, see
Chapter 98
Statutory reference:
   Adoption of technical codes by reference, see GS § 160A-76
   Building permit requirements, see GS §§ 160A-411 et seq.
   Municipal Inspection Department, see GS §§ 160A-411 et seq.
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER AND ANTENNA
§ 150.01 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)    A completed written permit application and at least 1 copy (or per
Zoning Administrator's request up to 6 copies) shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator at least 30 days prior to a regularly scheduled Planning Board
meeting.
   (B)   Any application not containing all required information shall be
returned to the applicant for correction and re-submission.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall recommend to the Planning Board either
approval, approval with conditions or disapproval. In making their
recommendations, the Zoning Administrator may include any appropriate
conditions they deem should be placed on issuing the permit.
   (D)   The Planning Board will be presented with the permit application at
its next regularly scheduled meeting after receiving the Zoning Administrator's
recommendation.
   (E)   The Planning Board shall take formal action to approve, approve with
conditions or disapprove the permit application within 60 days. If the action
is to disapprove the permit application, the reasons for the action shall be
stated in the minutes. If the Board fails to act within the specified time
period, the application shall be considered approved or disapproved as
recommended by the Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   The Planning Board recommendation shall, within 60 days, be presented
to the Village Council for their review and final determination. The Village
Council has the final decision on any required permits issued by the village
other than those that are administratively issued. The Village Council has up
to 60 days to have any public hearings as may be required and approve, approve
with conditions or disapprove of any permits.
   (G)   All permits issued by Chimney Rock Village, whether administrative by
the Zoning Administrator or by a vote of the Village Council, are considered in
effect for up to 12 months. Any permit not acted upon and put into use will be
considered terminated at that time and a new application will be required. The
process as applied for that particular permit application will then be
followed.
   (H)   If there are reasonable circumstances, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, and there are no substantive changes in a permit application,
there may be granted by the Zoning Administrator a one-time 180 day extension
to utilize a permit issued by the village, whether issued by Council or by the
Zoning Administrator. Should this permit not be used by the end of this one-
time extension, it shall terminate and the application process will begin again
with the submission of a new application and shall follow all such procedures
and pay required fees as apply to the specific permit being requested.
(2002 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2022)
§ 150.02 TELECOMMUNICATION AND COMMUNICATION INFRASTRUCTURE TOWERS.
   (A)   The applicant shall demonstrate through substantial evidence that a
bona fide need exists for the proposed tower and the applicant must have
written evidence of commitment for at least 1 communication device prior to the
issuance of a building permit. Any proposed tower shall provide a needed
service or benefit to the residents of Chimney Rock Village that cannot
otherwise be met.
   (B)   If there is an existing tower (built or permitted and not yet
constructed) within the service area of the proposed tower location, the
applicant must prove to the satisfaction of the Village Council that the
proposed facilities cannot be accommodated on the existing tower.
   (C)   Public use of the facilities may be required for public safety and
local communication by the village.
   (D)   A design plan of the tower certified by a registered engineer and a
site plan certified by a registered surveyor must be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator.
      (1)   The surveyor shall provide:
         (a)   The applicant(s) name and property owners name and addresses,
tax parcel identification number, the latitude and longitude coordinates;
         (b)   The name and addresses and tax identification numbers of all
owners of adjacent property;
         (c)   The proposed fall area; and
         (d)   The ground elevation of the tower base.
      (2)   The Engineer shall provide:
         (a)   The foundations for all proposed structures and all proposed
improvements, including access roads and utility connections;
         (b)   The proposed tower design loads and an elevation showing
proposed tower height, tower lighting, tower color and all proposed antennae;
         (c)   A map or description of the proposed service areas; and
         (d)   An analysis of the fall zone.
   (E)   Towers shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local
regulations. A copy of the applicant’s FCC license shall accompany the
application. Applicants shall provide documents indicating the power density
levels the proposed facility will generate and will not exceed any federal
standards for electromagnetic radiation or the American National Standard
Institute Standards for Telecommunication Towers, whichever provides the
stricter standards.
   (F)   Applicants shall provide assurance to the village that the applicant
accepts sole responsibility for the tower, holding the village free from all
liability and that the applicant has general liability coverage of at least
$1,000,000. The liability insurance company and policy number must be furnished
to the village and the village shall be added as an insured party to the above
policy and shall contain a requirement that the insurance company notifies the
village 30 days prior to cancellation, modification or failure to renew the
insurance coverage required.
   (G)   All towers shall be of the freestanding monopole type without guy
wires and shall have a property line setback of at least 3/4 of the height of
the tower. No tower shall exceed 150 feet in height. The removal of trees or
other vegetation for the purpose of improving reception is not permitted. No
graphics or text shall be displayed on towers.
   (H)   The applicant shall provide a view shed analysis showing all areas
from which the tower would be visible. No telecommunication tower site shall be
located within 200 feet of an existing or a proposed residence. Generators may
not be used as a primary electrical power source. Backup generators shall only
be operated during power outages or for testing and maintenance purposes.
   (I)   A telecommunication tower not in use for 6 consecutive months shall be
removed. This removal shall occur within 60 days of the end of the 6 month
period. Upon removal, the site shall be restored to its previous appearance
where appropriate. A bond shall be submitted as surety. The amount of the bond
shall be equal to the funds sufficient for removal, as deemed appropriate by
the Board.
   (J)   Following the Board's approval of the permit application, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue a tower permit. The permit owner shall acknowledge
and agree to all permit conditions approved by the Board. The application shall
be void and of no effect unless construction commences within 6 months and is
completed within 6 months from the date of the approval of the application. No
permit under the state building code shall be issued until, or unless, any
tower permit required by this subchapter is granted.
(2002 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002; Am. Ord. passed 1-16-2016; Am.
Ord. passed 5-17-2022)
§ 150.03 SANCTIONS.
   In the event of failure to comply strictly with the plans, documents and
other assurances submitted and approved with the application, the permit shall
thereupon immediately become void. No further construction under the permit
shall take place and all improvements to the land which were the subject of the
application shall thereupon be regarded as non-conforming and shall be subject
to sanctions.
(2002 Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 9-17-2002)
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 150.20 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this subchapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and appurtenances thereof; or
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.01)
§ 150.21 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina State Building Code, as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended and in its current edition, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.02)
§ 150.22 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina State Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code)
edition as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended
in its current edition, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.03)
§ 150.23 HEATING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building Code) edition
as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended in its
current edition, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.04)
§ 150.24 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Electrical Code (North Carolina State Building Code)
edition as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended
in its current edition, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth
herein.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.05)
§ 150.25 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   The North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Code edition with
amendments, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, and in its
current edition, is adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.06)
§ 150.26 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective within the municipal limits of Chimney
Rock Village at the time the amendments are officially on file with Rutherford
County and are being fully implemented by the Rutherford County Building
Inspection Department.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.07)
§ 150.27 COMPLIANCE TO CODES.
   All buildings or structures intended for any use within the municipal limits
of Chimney Rock Village, which are hereafter constructed, reconstructed,
erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished, or moved shall
conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions of all the
volumes of the North Carolina State Building Code as well as all volumes as are
in effect that pertain to the various construction trades. These include but
are not limited to general construction, plumbing, heating and air
conditioning, electrical or residential construction. All building codes in
effect as are being observed and inspected for by the Rutherford County
Building Inspection Department are fully applicable within Chimney Rock
Village.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.08)
§ 150.28 COPIES TO BE FILED.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be maintained on file in the office of the
Rutherford County Building Inspection Department or other locations as are
required of the county government.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.09)
§ 150.29 AUTHORIZATION FOR COUNTY INSPECTION.
   Chimney Rock Village hereby authorizes the Rutherford County Inspection
Department to have full powers within the municipal limits to inspect and
insure compliance with all applicable state and county building codes. This
does not limit the ability of the Village Council to establish additional code
requirements as from time to time may be necessary or from the establishment of
its own Inspection Department as allowed by General Statutes. All the
procedures, permits or other applications as may be required by the County
Inspection Department are hereby accepted and are applicable within the
municipal limits of Chimney Rock Village.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.10)
§ 150.30 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the village to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to
enforce this subchapter by criminal process, and the enforcement of any remedy
provided herein shall not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or
remedies provided herein or in other ordinances or laws.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.58)
§ 150.31 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   In order to provide for the health, welfare and safety of citizens and
visitors to Chimney Rock Village, it has been deemed necessary to require
commercial uses to provide sanitary facilities for employees.
   (A)   Each and every new commercial structure shall be equipped with
sanitary facilities. Facilities may be unisex and must be handicap accessible
as per state or federal regulations.
   (B)   Any commercial use not equipped with sanitary facilities as set forth
in division (A) above shall be subject to a fine of $25 per day for each day
the violation remains unabated.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 91.10)
§ 150.32 FOUNDATION SURVEY REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, after a review of the plans and
specifications submitted with an application for a Zoning Ordinance compliance/
land disturbance permit, may determine, due to the complexity of the proposed
project, that a foundation survey is required prior to construction of any
portion of a new structure, or an addition to an existing structure, that will
be located within 5 feet of any required yard setback.
   (B)   The required survey shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor or
civil engineer shall be made to insure that the proposed structure will be
located as shown on the approved plans. This survey shall be conducted after
the corners of the structure are staked out, but prior to construction of any
footer, foundation, or post. The survey shall also indicate the location of
proposed roof overhangs, decks, chimneys and any other proposed appurtenances
that extend beyond the walls of the structure.
   (C)   This survey shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review
and, if in accord with the approved plans, the Zoning Administrator shall issue
a statement of setback approval. This statement shall be required before any
certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Rutherford County Building
Inspections Office. If the survey is not performed, or if the survey shows the
structure is not in accord with the approved plans, the Zoning Ordinance
compliance/land disturbance permit shall be rescinded until the time as a
survey shows the location of the structure is in conformance.
   (D)   In the event the certificate of zoning compliance is rescinded, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the Rutherford County Building Inspections
Office that the building permit is no longer valid.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2003)
LAND DISTURBANCE, EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
§ 150.50 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to preserve Chimney Rock Village's unique
visual character, and to address safety and environmental issues, as well as
aesthetic considerations, relating to the cutting, grading and filling of land,
and to regulate certain land disturbing activity to control accelerated erosion
and sedimentation, in order to prevent the pollution of water and other damage
to lakes, watercourses and other public and private property.
(2002 Code, § 91.02) (Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 150.51 LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall initiate any land disturbing activity that uncovers more
than 1 contiguous acre within any area of the village, or the village
extraterritorial jurisdiction, without having an erosion control plan approved
by the Land Quality Section of the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources. Written documentation of such approval shall accompany the
land disturbance permit application. A land disturbance permit shall be
required prior to commencement of any of the following development activities
within the village limits:
   (A)   Construction. Any construction, repair or remodeling of any structure,
either temporary or permanent in nature, that requires the issuance of a
building permit prior to construction, and will:
      (1)   Affect or disturb more than 2,500 square feet of land area; or
      (2)   In the case of an area within 200 feet of a river, creek or other
watercourse, affect or disturb more than 500 square feet of land area.
   (B)   Change. Any change or alteration to unimproved or improved state of
land, including changes to soil, geology, hydrology, including mining,
dredging, filling or grading of land.
   (C)   Filling and grading. Any filling or grading of any slope that will
result in an angle greater than the angle of repose for saturated soil
conditions applicable for the type of soil involved; or in any case, will
result in an un-retained cut slope exceeding a ratio of greater than 1:1, or an
un-retained fill slope exceeding a ratio of greater than 2:1. In any case, the
angle shall be no greater than the angle that can be retained by vegetative
cover or other adequate erosion control devices or structures. In order to
provide stabilization of graded slopes and fills, a sufficient setback must be
provided between all property lines and the top of graded slopes (cuts) and the
toe of fills.
   (D)   The filling of land with other than clean fill. The term CLEAN FILL
includes dirt, gravel and sand. CLEAN FILL may include rocks or boulders, but
does not contain trash, garbage, vegetation or other foreign material. FILLING
shall include the placing, storing or dumping of fill material upon the ground.
   (E)   Clearing.  Clearing of forested land or other similar land disturbing
activity, including but not limited to, the harvesting of more than 5 trees.
   (F)   Tree removal. 
      (1)   It is the intent of this division that tree removal shall conform
to the proposed use of the property, and in particular, to the placement of
structures and necessary appurtenances thereto, while protecting the natural
scenic beauty that is vital to the village's tourist-based economy. For any
plot of land, 5 acres or less in size, the applicant must first make
application for a land disturbance permit:
         (a)   Where there will be the intended removal of 20% or more of the
natural vegetation; or
         (b)   Prior to the removal of more than 5 trees, 6 caliper inches or
more in diameter.
      (2)   The application shall include:
         (a)   The location, size and common name of all trees 6 caliper inches
or more in diameter, as measured 4 feet above ground level. Groups of trees may
be designated as “clumps”, with the predominant type, size and estimated
quantity shown;
         (b)   The location of existing or proposed structures and any other
improvements;
         (c)   Existing and proposed ground elevations;
         (d)   Proposed fill or excavation affecting any existing tree
location;
         (e)   Location of existing or proposed utilities; and
         (f)   Location of existing or proposed roadways.
      (3)   The removal of more than 5 trees without first obtaining a tree
removal permit shall be permissible only for the purpose of the removal of a
tree located in the buildable area for a proposed new structure, if the tree is
dead or diseased, or if the tree presents a danger to persons or existing
structures.
      (4)   On plots of land greater than 5 acres in size, trees may only be
removed for the purpose of:
         (a)   Timber harvesting, upon the approval of a harvest plan that is
for agricultural purposes only, i.e. the production of a timber crop, and not
for land development purposes. The harvest plan shall include a detail of all
proposed logging roads, showing method for minimizing erosion, soil
stabilization during operations, and re-vegetation of the logging roads upon
completion;
         (b)   The placement of a utility, providing an area no greater than 20
feet in width is cleared;
         (c)   The placement of a roadway, providing an area no greater than 50
feet in width is cleared; and
         (d)   A valid agricultural use, provided that, if the agricultural
area is converted to a future use other than agriculture, the Village Council
may require that the owner or future owner plant a quantity of trees on the
site that will equal the cumulative caliper dimension of desirable trees
removed.
   (G)   Grading. A grading plan shall be submitted, showing existing ground
topography and proposed topography at completion of the work, including
finished elevations of buildings and other structures, driveways and roadways.
No more than 1-1/2 acres may be disturbed at 1 time, on a slope of 15% or more,
without completion of stabilization and erosion control measures.
(2002 Code, § 91.02) (Ord. passed 9-16-2003; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 150.52 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for a land disturbance permit shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator, and no building permit shall be issued without prior
issuance of an applicable land disturbance permit, if the land disturbance
permit is required under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Each application shall contain a copy of a blueprint or sketch of
proposed construction, and shall contain a written proposal of the procedures
the owner or contractor will utilize to control soil erosion and/or
sedimentation, and prevent other damage to proximate property owners or to
existing road rights-of-way.
   (C)   After a review of the submitted application, the Zoning Administrator
may determine that a land disturbance permit is not needed, or may determine
that the information submitted is insufficient to determine the scope of the
project and that additional information is required. The Zoning Administer may
require that the additional information be reviewed by a professional engineer
engaged by the village, whose fee shall be paid by the applicant.
   (D)   Each application for a land disturbance permit shall be accompanied by
an application fee as set by the Village Council from time to time.
   (E)   In addition to the application fee, all land disturbance permits for
other than new building construction, the repair or remodeling of existing
structures, clearing, and tree removal shall be accompanied by a surety bond,
cash deposit or letter of credit in the amount of funds to restore the
particular site to its original condition, or to a condition that does not
endanger or is not likely to cause damage to neighboring properties. An
estimate of such funds to accomplish the foregoing shall be first furnished for
review to the Zoning Administrator, who may utilize outside consultants to
assist in the determination of the estimated costs. The applicant shall be
responsible for the cost of outside review if such review be deemed necessary.
(2002 Code, § 91.02) (Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 150.53 PERMIT REVIEW.
   After receipt of the land disturbance permit application, accompanying
application fee, blueprint or sketch of the proposed construction, and written
proposals of procedures to be followed, the Zoning Administrator shall review
same within 15 business days. If the application and written proposal are
deemed sufficient, reasonable and adequate to control sedimentation and/or
erosion problems, and prevent damage to proximate property owners, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue the land disturbance permit.
(2002 Code, § 91.02) (Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 150.54 MAINTENANCE.
   During the development of a site, the person conducting the land disturbing
activity shall install and maintain all temporary and permanent erosion and
sedimentation control measures as required. After site development, the
landowner or the person in control of the land shall install and/or maintain
all necessary permanent erosion and sediment control measures. Whenever it is
determined that significant sedimentation is occurring as a result of land
disturbing activities, despite application and maintenance of protective
devices, the person conducting the land disturbing activity shall take
immediate additional protective action.
(2002 Code, § 91.02) (Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 150.55 PROTECTION.
   Persons conducting land disturbing activities shall take reasonable measures
to protect all public and private property from damage caused by the activity.
(2002 Code, § 91.02) (Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 150.56 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Land disturbing activities conducted by the following agencies shall
be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
      (1)   The State of North Carolina;
      (2)   The United States; and
      (3)   The Village of Chimney Rock, except that the village hereby
declares its intent that all of its departments, contractors and subcontractors
shall also comply with the regulations set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Re-grading and similar maintenance of existing roadways;
   (C)   Agricultural tilling and similar agricultural uses; and small home
gardening plots, providing that the use is not closer than 50 feet to a water
body;
   (D)   Activities undertaken on forest land for the production and harvesting
of timber products conducted in accordance with best management practices set
out in Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water Quality; and
   (E)   The removal of dead or diseased trees.
(2002 Code, § 91.02) (Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 150.57 RESTORATION.
   The Village Council may require restoration of the water and land affected
by the failure to retain sediment generated by the land disturbing activity so
as to minimize the detrimental effects of the resulting pollution by
sedimentation.
(2002 Code, § 91.02) (Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
STEEP SLOPE DEVELOPMENT
§ 150.70 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate development on steep
slopes in order to preserve Chimney Rock Village's unique visual character, to
preserve scenic views and vistas that are inherent to the character of the
village, conserve the public health, safety, and general welfare, and promote
environmentally sound design and planning, to promote public safety by ensuring
that development on steep slopes areas addresses slope stability in an
effective manner, provide opportunities to reduce the length of roads, of
utilities, and amount of grading and paving. The mountains and steep slopes
constitute a significant natural topographic feature of the community and
create a desirable setting, visible to the residents, the visiting public, and
the tourist community which constitutes the village's sole economy. In order to
insure the preservation of the mountains and steep slopes, the regulations of
this subchapter are established to recognize that development of land on steep
slopes or mountainous areas involves special considerations and unique
situations which result from the slope of the land. These special
considerations and unique situations include, but are not limited to, increased
hazards to development from rock falls, earth movement, storm water runoff, and
geologic hazards. In addition, steeply sloped land presents design limitations
to roadways, cuts and fills, and buildings, and difficulties in providing
public services.
   (B)   The following objectives shall serve as general guidelines to fulfill
the purpose of this section:
      (1)   To protect life and property from all potentially hazardous
conditions particular to steep slopes;
      (2)   To preserve and enhance the scenic and environmental resources of
the landscape by encouraging the maximum retention of prominent natural
topographic features;
      (3)   To encourage innovative site and architectural design and planning
in order that the development adapts to the natural terrain and is harmonious
with the character of the area;
      (4)   To minimize grading and cut and fill operations consistent with the
retention of the natural character of the steep slope;
      (5)   To minimize storm water runoff and erosion problems incurred by the
development on and off the site;
      (6)   To preserve, where possible, natural streams, ponds and associated
riparian vegetation;
      (7)   To encourage the on-site retention of significant tree and other
vegetation which stabilizes steep slopes, retains moisture, prevents erosion,
and enhances the natural scenic beauty; and to encourage the retention of
vegetation throughout the site instead of just in the periphery area of the
development;
      (8)   To encourage minimal grading which relates to the natural contour
of the land;
      (9)   To provide land use densities to promote the best possible
development of steep slopes in order to retain significant natural features;
      (10)   To encourage road design which follows the natural topography
wherever possible in order to minimize cutting and grading; and
      (11)   To preserve predominant views from and of the steep slopes in
order to retain the sense of identity and imagery that the river, the creeks,
the hills and mountains now impart to Chimney Rock Village.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.71 DEFINITION.
   (A)   Steep slope defined. For the purposes of this subchapter, a STEEP
SLOPE is defined as any lot, parcel, plot, or tract of land which meets all the
following standards:
      (1)   Is located within any zoning district of Chimney Rock Village and
its extraterritorial jurisdiction; and
      (2)   Has an average slope of its natural terrain of 15% or greater; and
      (3)   Has an elevation of 1200 feet above mean sea level or greater,
provided only that portion of a lot, parcel, plot, or tract which has an
elevation of 1200 feet above mean sea level or greater shall be defined as a
"steep slope" and any portion below said elevation shall not be defined as a
"steep slope".
   (B)   Previously approved developments exempt. Any portion of the lot,
parcel, or tract of land which has been approved as a subdivision prior to the
adoption of this subchapter or developed prior to the adoption of this
subchapter shall not be included within the definition of a steep slope if no
further development is proposed within that portion of the lot, parcel, or
tract of land.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.72 AVERAGE SLOPE DETERMINATION.
   To verify the average slope of the land falling under the Steep Slope
Ordinance determination, the subdivider shall obtain a professional survey and
apply the procedures set forth in the Appendix following this chapter.
   (A)   Contour map required. Each application for a development which meets
the standards set forth in the steep slope definition shall include a contour
map which includes a scale and contour interval on the site plan to determine
the average slope of a lot, parcel, plot, or tract of land in its natural
state.
   (B)   Calculation of natural average slope. The natural average slope is
calculated using the following formula:
   S= 0.0023 x I x L/A
   Where:
   S = Average natural slope of parcel in percent
   I = Contour interval of map in feet, with said contour intervals to be five
feet or less
   L = Total length of the contour lines within the parcel in feet
   A = Area of the parcel in acres
   0.0023 = Constant which converts square feet into acres
   Once "S" or the average natural percent is calculated and rounded off to the
nearest whole number, that number shall be used to determine development
requirements.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.73 DEVELOPMENT REGULATED.
   Developments which meet the standards set forth in the definition of steep
slope shall further be regulated with regard to the permitted density on the
site. The permitted density for residential uses shall be determined by the
average slope of a site to be developed for residential use. If historic grade
cannot be calculated due to prior grading or development activities, it shall
be estimated using best available resources by the Zoning Administrator whose
determination shall be final.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.74 MANUFACTURED SLOPE AND NEW ROADWAYS.
   Manufactured slopes are slopes created by grading operations. Manufactured
slopes shall be modulated by landscaping to create natural appearing slopes and
hillsides. The minimization of retaining walls and preservation of trees is a
priority for maintaining the natural appearance of manufactured slopes.
Manufactured slopes shall not exceed 2:1 cut slopes and 2:1 fill slopes.
Roadway grades shall not be established to a grade point higher in elevation
than a minimum of 20 feet below a mountain ridge line.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.75 STRUCTURE HEIGHT AND LOCATION.
   (A)   The maximum height of principal structures in the Steep Slope Overlay
District shall be limited to 2 stories (maximum 25 feet to top of roof/ridge)
on the uphill side of the structure and 3 stories (maximum 35 feet to top of
roof/ridge) on the downhill side of the structure, regardless of height
allowances elsewhere in this code. For development sites where structures are
not located so as to have an uphill or a downhill side, the maximum height of
principal structures shall be limited to 2 stories (maximum 25 feet to top of
roof/ridge). Accessory structures shall not exceed 20 feet in height to top of
roof ridge on any side.
   (B)   In any case, neither the roof/ridge of any building, nor of any
accessory structure, nor shall any portion of a building or structure shall be
constructed on, extend above, or be visible above a mountain ridge.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.76 DENSITY.
   As the definition of steep slope indicates, any proposed development whose
average natural slope is less than 15% is not subject to the regulations for
permitted density as set forth herein. Any proposed development which meets the
definition of steep slope and whose average natural slope is above 30% is
subject to the most restrictive site density.
   (A)   15.0% to 19.9% slope: 1 dwelling unit per 3 acres.
   (B)   20.0% to 24.9% slope: 1 dwelling unit per 5 acres.
   (C)   25.0% to 29.9% slope: 1 dwelling unit per 7.5 acres.
   (D)   30.0% slope and greater: 1 dwelling unit per 10 acres.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.77 STEEP SLOPE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Information required. Compliance with this subchapter and the
subdivision review process.
   (B)   Additional information. In addition to the application information
required for a site plan review or subdivision review, those proposed
developments which meet the standards of the steep slope definition must
include the following information:
      (1)   A site plan which includes the boundaries and acreage of the
parcel, the scale and contour
interval, existing and proposed contours, the limits and area of grading, and
percent of site to be graded;
      (2)   Average natural slope calculations which include the average
natural slope in percent, contour intervals of 5 feet or less, individual and
total length of contour lines in feet and area of the parcel in acres;
      (3)   Other information or descriptions or maps which may be requested by
the Zoning Administrator, and/or the Chimney Rock Village Planning Board to
address concerns regarding geologic hazards, soil stability, building-to-site
relationships, and similar characteristics.
      (4)   A geological survey prepared by a professional geologist and a
geotechnical engineer.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.78 ISSUANCE OF GRADING PERMIT.
   No land disturbance permit, grading permit, or any other permit which would
permit development of the site shall be issued for a parcel of land or
subdivision which meets the standards set forth in the definition of steep
slope until the site review and subdivision plat review have been completed.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.79 EXISTING LOTS OR PARCELS.
   Construction of a single-family residence shall be permitted on any lawfully
established lot or parcel existing as of the date of adoption of this
subchapter, even if the parcel does not meet the maximum density requirements
listed in the table above. In such cases, however, the requirements of §§
150.71,
150.74 through
150.78 and
150.80 shall still apply.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.80 TREE AND OTHER SPECIFIED VEGETATION PRESERVATION.
   (A)   All trees defined under this section that do not lay within the
buildable area of a dwelling unit or a permitted accessory structure shall be
preserved on individual lots or properties located in the Steep Slope Overlay
District. For the purpose of this section, "trees and other specified
vegetation" shall mean all native trees of 6 or more inches in diameter at
breast height (dbh) . For developments to which this section applies, a tree
survey shall be required to identify the trees required to be preserved. The
tree survey shall graphically show the location of each tree and note the
species and diameter at breast height. Only trees defined in this section shall
be shown on the survey; non-native invasive species shall not be included and
may be removed. During construction, these treed areas to be preserved shall be
clearly designated using tree protection fencing to protect them from
disturbance or damage.
   (B)   Fines for the unauthorized removal and the requirement of tree
replacement for removal of trees (or both fines and replacement) in
preservation areas, unless such trees are determined to be dead, dying or
represent a threat to property by the Zoning Administrator or other designated
person(s) and said removal is thereby authorized. Replacement trees shall be a
minimum of 3 inches diameter at breast height. (dbh). In the event that the
Zoning Administrator or other designated person(s) determines that the site
cannot accommodate the replacement planting due to size, slope, location, or
other related condition, the payment of a fee-in-lieu of replacement planting
shall be required. The fee-in-lien tree replacement fee amount shall be set by
the Village Council, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any firm, person, or corporation violating the provisions of §§
150.20 et seq. shall be subject to all the applicable punishments, penalties
and equitable relief provided for through the General Statutes of North
Carolina as well as all the penalties provided for within this municipal code.
(2002 Code, Ch. 90, § 90.78)
APPENDIX: PROCEDURES
(1)   To verify the average slope of the land being subdivided, and to
accurately map any steep slopes and/or deep depressions occurring on that land,
the subdivider shall obtain a professional survey as described below:
   (a)   The survey shall be computed in sufficient detail to produce a
topographical map with contour lines at no greater than 5 foot intervals by a
field topographical survey by a NC Professional Surveyor or by an aerial
topographic mapping. produced to the following standards:
   (b)   The aerial topographic mapping will be produced to National Map
Accuracy Standards as published by the USGS.
      1.   Horizontal: 90% of all visible planimetric features will be within
1/40th of an inch, based on the mapping scale, of their correct coordinate
positions, and no such well defined features shall be in error by more than 1/
20th of an inch, based on the mapping scale.
      2.   Vertical: 90% of all contours on clear unobscured ground will be
correct to within ½ of the contour interval. The remaining 10% will not exceed
in error by more than the contour interval. 90% of all spot elevations on clear
unobscured ground will be correct to within 25% of the specified contour
interval, and none will be in error by more than 50% of that contour interval.
      3.   Obscured and Uncertifiable Areas: Obscured areas and areas that can
not be certified to the above accuracies, by an Aerial Mapping Finn, must be
supplemented by field surveyed topo, produced by a NC Professional Land
Surveyor, in critical design areas such as proposed roads, all proposed cut &
fill areas, and any other areas deemed critical by the Villages Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
CHAPTER 151: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Authority
   
151.03   Purpose
   
151.04   Jurisdiction
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Sign maintenance and tree cutting
   
151.07   Nonconforming signs, and reconstruction of damaged signs
   
151.08   Administration, enforcement, and appeals
   
151.09   Amendments
Sign Regulations
   
151.25   Permitted signs
   
151.26   Signs prohibited
   
151.27   Signs exempted
Permits
   
151.40   Permits
   
151.41   Permit application
   
151.42   Application requirements
   
151.43   Plans, specifications and data required for permit
   
151.44   Permits; issuing
   
151.45   Permit fees
   
151.46   Permit transfers
   
151.47   Permit revocations
   
151.48   Notice given for refusing to issue permit
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Sign Control Ordinance
for Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina."
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.02 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by G.S. Ch. 160A-174, Chimney Rock
Village hereby ordains and enacts into law the following divisions and
sections.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.03 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted to regulate and control signs and advertising
devices and their illumination, in order to enhance the health, safety, visual
communication, and the visual environment of the community. This chapter is
intended to benefit the general community by protecting property values,
promoting tourism, protecting the public health, safety, and welfare, and by
preserving the character and integrity of the community.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.04 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply within the incorporated area and
the extraterritorial jurisdiction areas of Chimney Rock Village.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide
business, lessor, service, owner, product, or activity; or a sign, the contents
of which pertains to a place, time event, or purpose which no longer exists,
applies, or which has occurred.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign or object used to attract attention that uses or
incorporates flashing, blinking, or strobe lighting; reflective materials or
devices, sound; moving parts or components that provide the sign motion or give
the illusion of motion or movement.
   ATTACHED SIGN. Any sign that is permanently attached to an existing
building. ATTACHED SIGNS include wall signs, projected signs, banners, or
window signs.
   BANNER. Any sign that is made of non-rigid material with no enclosing
framework such as, but not limited to, cloth, fabric, plastic, or paper. These
would be for temporary display of special events, activities, or celebrations
and only available for limited periods of time.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. Any sign designed so that the letters or numbers
attached to the sign can be periodically changed to indicate a different
message.
   EXEMPT SIGN. Any sign which is specifically listed as exempt from certain
provisions of this chapter.
   FLAG. A piece of cloth or flexible material varying in size, color, and/or
design, used as a symbol, standard, signal, or emblem.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. The general term for any sign, which is supported from
the ground and not attached to a building or other structure.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN.
      (1)   A sign that was erected and is placed prior to the adoption of this
chapter and which does not conform to the provisions of this chapter, is
declared a nonconforming sign.
      (2)   A sign that is erected and that is in place and which conforms to
the provisions of this chapter at the time it is erected, but which does not
conform to an amendment to this chapter enacted subsequent to the erection of
the sign, is declared a nonconforming sign.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. Any sign used for the purpose of displaying, advertising,
identifying or directing attention to a product, business, service, activity,
or place, including products or services sold or offered for sale on premises
other than on the premise where the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISE ADVERTISING SIGN. Any sign advertising or identifying a product,
service, business, or activity sold, located or conducted on the premises where
the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISE DIRECTIONAL AND INFORMATIONAL SIGN. An on-premise sign which
provides directions or information for persons on the premises including, but
not limited to, entrance and exit signs, parking information, and handicapped
access.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. Any sign used for the purpose of displaying, advertising,
identifying, or directing attention to a business, product, operation, service,
or activity sold or offered for sale, or to other information offered on the
premises where the sign is located.
   PORTABLE (MOBILE) SIGN. A sign with a permanent frame and display area for
changeable copy or non-changeable copy, designed or intended to be relocated
and not permanently affixed to the ground or a structure. This shall include
signs on wheels, trailers, or any other device, which can be moved, or is
intended to be moved, from one location to another.
   PREMISES. A tract of real property in single ownership, which is not divided
by a public street or right-of-way.
   PROHIBITED SIGN. Any sign, or element of a sign, which is specifically
listed as prohibited shall not be permitted within the jurisdiction of this
chapter.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign that projects more than 6 inches from its mounting
surface.
   ROOFLINE. The highest continuous line on a roof, excluding any mansards,
cupolas, pylons, chimneys, or minor projection. On a sloping roof, the ROOFLINE
is a principal ridgeline, or the highest line common to 1 or more principal
slopes of a roof. On a flat roof, the ROOFLINE is the highest continuous line
of the roof or parapet, whichever is higher.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected or attached to the roof of a building, or any
sign which is attached to or supported by a building, and extends vertically
above the roofline.
   SIGN. Any display of letters, words, numbers, figures, devices, emblems,
pictures, logos, flashing lights and/or other means whereby the same are made
visible for the purpose of making anything known, whether the display be made
on, or attached to, or as a part of a structure, surface, or any other object
whether natural or manmade. The term SIGN shall include the structure to which
it is attached.
   SIGN, DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. A sign designed to give forth artificial light
directly (or through transparent or translucent material) from a light source
within or attached to the sign. A cabinet or box sign is an example of a
directly illuminated sign, whether or not the sign is actually illuminated.
   SIGN HEIGHT. The distance from the ground directly below the center of the
sign or from the grade of the closest point in the traveled way of the street
where the sign is located, whichever is higher, to the uppermost point of the
sign or sign structure.
   SIGN, INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED. A sign designed to have illumination from a
detached light source, shielded so that no direct rays from the light source
are visible elsewhere than on the lot where the illumination occurs.
   SIGN, NON-ILLUMINATED. A sign that has neither direct nor indirect
illumination.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from a marquee, canopy, or other
overhead support.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign with or without a structural frame, not permanently
attached to a building, structure, or ground, that may be mobile and is
intended for a limited period of display.
   TRAVELED WAY. That portion of any alley, road, street, or highway upon which
vehicles normally travel and which is marked by gravel, asphalt, concrete, or
packed dirt.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign attached to a building facade. The sign may be painted
on a wall of a building, attached flush with a building wall, or may be
attached to project from a wall of a building. WALL SIGNS include WINDOW SIGNS
and BANNER SIGNS.
   WINDBLOWN SIGN. Any sign, part of a sign or series of signs, designed or
erected to move when subjected to wind. This definition shall include banners,
pennants, and similar devices made from lightweight fabric, plastic, or similar
material that are attached to a structure. WINDBLOWN SIGNS may or may not
contain a message, symbol, or logo.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign which is applied to, attached to, painted on, or
suspended behind the glassed area of a building and located such that the
message, symbol, insignia, visual representation, logo, or other material which
communicates information can be read from off the property. For the purposes of
this chapter, WINDOW SIGNS shall be considered a WALL SIGN.
   YARD SALE SIGN. A temporary sign which advertises the location, date, and/or
time of an individual or civic yard or garage sale at a residence, place of
worship, or civic facility. YARD SALE SIGNS shall not include advertisements or
announcements for commercial sales or flea markets.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.06 SIGN MAINTENANCE AND TREE CUTTING.
   (A)   Sign maintenance.
      (1)   All signs and their structures shall be maintained in good repair
and safe condition and shall conform to the standards in this section.
Maintenance carried out in accordance with this section shall not be performed
such that the sign is enlarged, moved, or altered in any manner that would
create or increase a nonconforming condition. Any sign violating these
requirements shall be repaired or removed as required. Signs that require the
placement of landscaped areas shall be adequately and properly maintained.
      (2)   No existing sign or sign structure shall be allowed to remain as a
permitted sign if a business or a use no longer exists. Signs that are no
longer permitted and signs that are abandoned shall be removed within 30 days.
      (3)   If a sign is damaged, any repair or replacement shall be done in
conformance with this chapter and shall be completed within 30 days from date
of damage.
   (B)   Unlawful cutting of trees or shrubs. No person may, for the purpose of
increasing or enhancing the visibility of any sign, damage, trim, or remove any
trees, shrubs, or other vegetation, located within any public road or highway
right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 NONCONFORMING SIGNS, AND RECONSTRUCTION OF DAMAGED SIGNS.
   (A)   Nonconforming signs. Any nonconforming sign or sign component as
herein defined, shall be allowed to continue and shall be maintained as
provided in this chapter, but shall not be: changed, altered, or replaced by
another nonconforming sign, (except that copy may be changed on an existing
sign); not expanded or modified in any way which increases the sign's
nonconformity; structurally altered, except to meet safety requirements; re-
established after it has been removed, or has been abandoned for 90 days or
more; continued in use after the cessation or change of the business owner or
activity to which the sign pertains; re-established after damage or destruction
if the damage to the sign exceeds 50% of the sign's current value as herein
defined. The extent of damage shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Reconstruction of damaged signs. Any conforming sign or sign structure
which has been damaged may be repaired and used as previously, provided all
repairs are initiated and completed within 30 days of the damage. However, if
the sign should be declared unsafe by the Zoning Administrator, the owner of
the sign, or the owner of record of the real property whereon the sign is
located, shall immediately correct all unsafe conditions to the Zoning
Administrator's satisfaction. If the Zoning Administrator discovers that a sign
is damaged or is in an unsafe condition, the Zoning Administrator will promptly
notify either the sign owner or the owner of record of the real property
whereon the sign is located. The affirmative duty and liability shall, however,
remain with the owner of the sign to keep each sign in a safe and undamaged
condition in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed 12-16-2014; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.08 ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Administration and enforcement. The Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Chimney
Rock Village Council hereby appoints the Zoning Administrator to administer and
enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Authority. The Zoning Administrator shall have the following
authority.
      (1)   Notice of violation. The Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to issue a notice of violation of all violations of this chapter.
Where the owner of a sign is indicated on the sign or is otherwise apparent or
known to the Zoning Administrator, a copy of the notice of violation shall be
delivered to the sign owner by hand delivery or by certified mail. In all other
cases, a copy of the notice of violation may be posted on the sign if the sign
is readily accessible. A copy of the notice of violation shall also be
delivered by hand delivery or certified mail to the property owner as shown on
the Rutherford County tax records. In addition, service hereunder may be made
in accordance with Rule 4 of the North Carolina Rules of Civil Procedure.
      (2)   Time to remedy violation. All violations shall be remedied within
30 days. The 30 day period shall commence upon the service of the notice of
violation as set forth above.
      (3)   Extension of time for compliance. The Zoning Administrator shall
have the authority to grant a single 30 day extension of time within which to
remedy the violation. An extension of time may be issued based upon a written
request for extension of time, which sets forth valid reasons for not complying
within the original time period.
      (4)   Remedies for failure to comply. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175, the
Zoning Administrator, in consultation with the Village Attorney, may choose
from the remedies set forth below to enforce the requirements of this chapter
when there is a failure to comply with the notice of violation. Those remedies
are as follows.
         (a)   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in
this section, the Zoning Administrator may issue a citation setting forth a
civil penalty of $50, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c). In the case of a
continuing violation, each 24 hour period during which the violation continues
to exist shall constitute a separate violation. The citation shall be served
upon the person(s) described in division (B)(1) above by the means set forth
therein. In the event the offender does not pay the penalty within 30 days of
service of the citation, the civil penalty shall be collected by the village in
a civil action in the nature of debt, which shall not subject the offender to
the penalty provisions of G.S. § 14.4.
         (b)   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in
this section, the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to issue a
remove order for any sign not brought into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter within the time required by the foregoing provisions. Remove
orders shall be issued to and served upon the person(s) described in division
(B)(1) above by the means set forth therein. The sign shall be removed within
30 days after the service of the remove order at the expense of the offender.
The remove order shall describe with particularity the location of the sign to
be removed and all of the reasons for issuance of the remove order, including
specific reference to the provisions of this section which have been violated.
In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in this section, the
Zoning Administrator or his or her designee shall have the right to remove or
cause to be removed any sign or structure located in any public or private road
or highway right-of-way in violation of this chapter.
         (c)   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in
this section, the Village Attorney may seek injunctive relief in the
appropriate court.
      (5)   Removal of dangerous signs. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-412, the Zoning
Administrator shall have the authority to summarily remove, abate, or remedy a
sign, which the Rutherford County Building Inspector determines to be dangerous
or prejudicial to the public health or safety. The expense of the action shall
be paid by the sign owner, or if the sign owner cannot be determined, by the
property owner, and if it is not paid, shall be a lien upon the land or
premises where the nuisance arose, and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
      (6)   Stay upon appeal. In the event of a timely appeal of a decision of
the Zoning Administrator to the Board of Adjustment, enforcement of all
proceedings and furtherance of the action appealed from is stayed, unless the
Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of Adjustment that a stay would
cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (7)   Appeals. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide all appeals
from any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator, provided the appeal is made, in writing, within 30 days of
receipt of the order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
Zoning Administrator. Pending appeal, the time limits set out in the notice or
order shall be suspended. If the Board of Adjustment finds that the action of
the Zoning Administrator has been taken for good cause and in accordance with
this chapter, it shall so declare and the time period for compliance shall run
from the issuance of the Board's findings. If the Board of Adjustment sustains
the appeal of the petitioner, no further action will be taken by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (8)   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment. Appeals from the Board of
Adjustment may be taken to the courts within 30 days of the decision of the
Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.09 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Amendments. This chapter may be amended by the Village Council in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. Proposed amendments or changes to this
chapter may be initiated by the Village Council, the Zoning Administrator, or
any person affected by any provision of this chapter. Proposed amendments shall
be submitted to the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Council action. The Village Council may enact any amendment to this
chapter by a majority vote at any meeting held of the Council.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 151.25 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Permit required. The following listed permitted signs shall not be
installed until a valid sign permit has been issued by the Zoning
Administrator, or his or her designee.
   (B)   Permitted signs. The following signs are regulated by this chapter:
      (1)   Signs permitted in Non-Residential Districts. TB Tourist Business
District, CB Community Business District, CF Community Facility District, CG
Campground and Recreational Vehicle District, and MF Medical Facility District.
The following signs are allowed in the above listed Non-Residential Districts,
subject to the standards set forth in this section and other applicable
provisions of this chapter.
         (a)   Projecting signs. Any projecting sign shall not project more
than 5 feet from the facade of a building to which it is attached and shall be
a minimum of 8 feet above the grade below the sign as measured from the lowest
point on the sign.
         (b)   Changeable copy signs. A changeable copy section of a wall sign,
or a permitted freestanding sign, is allowed as an integral part of a sign.
Changeable copy signs may be non-illuminated or indirectly illuminated.
         (c)   Freestanding signs. All freestanding signs, where permitted, are
subject to setback requirements as required by the Code of Ordinances. No
freestanding sign shall exceed 16 feet in height. Freestanding signs may be
non-illuminated or indirectly illuminated.
            1.   A property may have 2 freestanding signs provided that:
               A.   The signs are not erected within 150 feet of each other;
               B.   They are not within visual sight of each other; and
               C.   The property shall have a minimum of 250 lineal feet along
the highway.
            2.   TB Tourist Business District. No freestanding signs are
permitted, with the exception of those that have made application and been
considered and approved for a Conditional Use Permit for the use and placement
of a freestanding sign.
               A.   One freestanding sign may be considered for a Conditional
Use Permit for being located on a property within the Tourist Business
District.
                  i.   This requires a Conditional Use Permit application,
Village Planning Board review, a public hearing as part of the Planning Board
consideration, and for the Planning Board to make their recommendation(s) and
any condition(s) to the Village Council.
                  ii.   The Village Council may then consider the application.
Council must then hold a public hearing and may approve the Conditional Use
Permit.
                  iii.   Planning Board, Village Council public hearings, and
final consideration may occur on the same date.
               B.   Conditions for consideration for having a freestanding sign
within the Tourist Business District:
                  i.   The property where the existing business operates has
sufficient property where a freestanding sign could be placed;
                  ii.   The sign placement cannot interfere with potential or
existing parking;
                  iii.   Sign placement may not block, impede, or adversely
affect pedestrian traffic, walkways, or sight lines of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic in any manner;
                  iv.   The sign must conform to all other design, lighting,
and size requirements as are within this chapter for any other commercial signs
or freestanding signs;
                  v.   Must maintain the same location of any existing sign,
and the sign size and other guidelines as may apply must be retained or
included in the repairs or changes to any existing or newly proposed
freestanding sign;
                     a.   A Conditional Use Permit will be required for any
freestanding sign already existing within the Tourist Business District at the
time of any change in property use or when a new property owner takes
possession of the property.
                     b.   Current businesses or property owners may change
copy, color, brand, or logo, and any other business defining aspects of the
sign presentation and/or make repairs, but cannot enlarge or expand as a non-
conforming sign or change beyond the conditions set forth in any Conditional
Use Permit issued.
                     c.   Freestanding sign Conditional Use Permits are granted
to the existing property owner and these permits do not convey in any manner to
a new property owner.
                     d.   New property owners must make a Conditional Use
Permit application for any existing, changing, or new freestanding sign.
            3.   CB Community Business District, CF Community Facility
District, CG Campground and Recreational Vehicle District, MF Medical Facility
District, and TB Tourist Business District. One freestanding, on premise sign
is permitted, provided the sign shall not exceed a maximum of 32 square feet in
area, and shall be set back off the adjacent right-of-way no less than 28 feet
in the Tourist Business District or 15 feet in the Community Business District
from U.S. Highway 64/74A, unless differing conditions are assigned through the
granting of a Conditional Use Permit for properties within the Tourist Business
District.
               A.   The conditions set forth in any Conditional Use permit for
a freestanding sign in the Tourist Business District may vary from the
guidelines within this chapter;
               B.   Should there appear to be a conflict with any of the
conditions set forth in any Conditional Use Permit with those within this
chapter, those conditions granted and applied within the Conditional Use Permit
prevail.
         (d)   Temporary, portable, and banner signs.
            1.   A.   A non-profit entity may obtain a permit to post signs
advertising its activities provided that the entity may post the sign or signs
for no longer than 30 days in advance of the scheduled event and the sign must
be removed within 48 hours after the conclusion of the event.
               B.   For the purpose of this section, the term NON-PROFIT ENTITY
shall be defined to include any organization which has been recognized by the
Internal Revenue Service as tax exempt pursuant to § 501(c) of the Internal
Revenue Code. Temporary signs may be non-illuminated or indirectly illuminated
and may not exceed 36 square feet in area.
            2.   Any other entity, business, or commercial, governmental, or
other similar agencies, and any other unincorporated group may apply for and be
considered for a temporary sign or banner sign permit provided that they follow
the following guidelines:
               A.   A sign permit application should be completed and submitted
no less than 30 days prior to the use of any temporary or banner sign by any
entity other than a § 501(c)(3) non-profit;
               B.   Temporary or banner signs may not exceed 36 square feet in
area;
               C.   These signs may not remain in use and be visible for more
than 30 days prior to the event and must be removed within 48 hours upon the
end of the event date;
               D.   If lighted, must follow all regulations within this chapter
for the lighting of any signs; and
               E.   Temporary or banner signs may only be used twice during any
12 month period.
            3.   Temporary business or commercial, portable (mobile) signs are
permitted for short term or daily use provided they do not block or interfere
with pedestrian or vehicular movement, and must not cause or create a safety
hazard. Signs may have 2 sides with each face not to exceed 2 feet by 4 feet
with the base to be no more than 2 feet in width or depth.
      (2)   Signs permitted in Residential Districts: LR Low Density
Residential District, MR Medium Density Residential District, and HZ Holding
Zone District. The following signs shall be allowed in all residential
districts, subject to the standards set forth in this section and other
applicable provisions of this chapter:
         (a)   Subdivision or multi-family identification signs;
         (b)   An on-premise, freestanding sign containing the name of the
subdivision or multi-family development is permitted on 1 or both sides of each
entrance into the subdivision or development, provided that a minimum of 50
square feet of landscaped area be provided at the base of the signs. These
signs may be non-illuminated or indirectly illuminated; and
         (c)   A subdivision or multi-family identification sign conforming
with the above requirements may also be located within the median of an
entrance with a divided median, provided the sign is set back a minimum of 10
feet from the intersection of the entrance road and the adjacent road right-of-
way, and a minimum of 28 feet from U.S. Highway 64/74-A. The sign may be non-
illuminated or indirectly illuminated.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed 12-16-
2014; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.26 SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   The following signs and sign features or components are prohibited:
   (A)   Any sign or sign structure, whether temporary or permanent, located in
any public or private road or highway right-of-way, with the exception of
governmental signs;
   (B)   Any sign that obstructs the view of motorists entering or exiting
roads or highways, or interfering with a driver's view of approaching, merging,
or intersecting traffic;
   (C)   Any sign that is located in any manner or place so as to constitute a
hazard to traffic. Windblown signs, permanent or temporary moving signs, or any
device used to attract attention, all or part of which is set in motion by
wind, mechanical, electrical, or other means;
   (D)   Animated signs or blinking signs;
   (E)   Directly illuminated signs and internally lit signs;
   (F)   Freestanding signs in the TB Tourist Business District unless granted
a Conditional Use Permit following the guidelines outlined within this chapter
(see §
151.25(B)(1)(c)2);
   (G)   Tethered balloons or inflated signs;
   (H)   Off-premise advertising signs and off-premise directional signs;
   (I)   Any non-governmental sign resembling a public safety warning sign or
traffic signal;
   (J)   Roof signs;
   (K)   Any sign painted or displayed on a vehicle or trailer, if the vehicle
or trailer is parked in a location for the primary purpose of displaying the
sign, or placed in a location where the sign is not otherwise permitted, except
for signs that are painted on or attached to commercial vehicles which are not
parked for the primary purpose of displaying the sign; and
   (L)   Any sign constructed, posted, or maintained upon a tree, utility pole,
or attached to a natural feature.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.27 SIGNS EXEMPTED.
   The following signs are exempted from this subchapter with the exception
that all signs shall be erected, constructed, and maintained in accordance with
the North Carolina State Building Codes:
   (A)   Government signs including, but not limited to, traffic, warning,
regulatory, and informational signs, including building identification,
directional, and welcome signs;
   (B)   A flag or insignia of any government, governmental agency, or
charitable, civic, fraternal, patriotic, religious, or similar organization,
provided the flag or insignia is not displayed as an advertising device;
   (C)   Signs that are posted upon property to identify private parking areas,
or to warn the public against trespassing or danger from animals;
   (D)   Signs that give the name and address of the occupant of a building,
mailboxes, and similar uses customarily associated with residential and non-
residential structures;
   (E)   Private, unofficial traffic signs indicating entrances or exits,
parking, or the direction of traffic on the property, provided that each sign
does not exceed 2 square feet in area.
   (F)   Real estate signs advertising the rental, sale, or lease of the
property on which the sign is located, provided that:
      (1)   A maximum of 1 sign per property for each street frontage is
permitted;
      (2)   For properties containing structures, the sign shall not exceed a
maximum area of 12 square feet; and
      (3)   For vacant properties without structures, the sign shall not exceed
a maximum area of 16 square feet. The sign shall not be located closer than 10
feet from the nearest edge of the traveled way of any public or private road or
highway, and shall be placed no closer than 28 feet from U.S. Highway 64/74-A.
   (G)   Construction signs associated with the construction of residential or
non-residential structures on the property, or construction of a residential
subdivision, provided that no more than 1 such sign is permitted on a
residential or non-residential property, or 1 such sign at each entrance to a
residential subdivision. Signs shall not exceed a maximum of 16 square feet in
area, and shall not exceed a height of 6 feet;
   (H)   Historic markers, monuments, or signs erected or approved by public
agencies. Signs denoting the location of underground utilities;
   (I)   Signs posted in association with village, county, state, or federal
authorities for crime prevention, public safety, and health;
   (J)   Trade names and graphics which are located on newspaper, soft drink,
gasoline pumps, and similar vending devices which are in active use;
   (K)   Warning signs posted by utility or construction companies;
   (L)   Signs on operational motor vehicles indicating the name of a business,
provided the vehicle is not intended for a display of signs and is not so
parked or placed as to act as a sign location;
   (M)   Signs required by law, statute, or ordinance;
   (N)   Decorations or displays of a temporary nature that are associated with
any national, local, or religious holiday or celebration;
   (O)   Window signs, neon, or other types denoting hours of operation,
emergency telephone numbers, credit card acceptance information, "open" and
"closed", and similar informational signage;
   (P)   Yard sale signs located on the property at which sale is taking place.
Yard sales are permitted only 1 per quarter year, with a maximum of 4 sales per
year; and
   (Q)   Flush mounted signs are permitted on buildings but shall not exceed 4
inches in depth as measured from the wall it is mounted.
(Ord. passed 10-19-2004; Am. Ord. passed 12-16-2014; Am. Ord. passed - -)
PERMITS
§ 151.40 PERMITS.
   All signs listed in §
151.25 of this chapter shall require a sign permit prior to being constructed,
moved, altered, placed, or repaired. Sign permits shall be issued by the Zoning
Administrator. If a sign permit is denied, the decision may be appealed to the
Chimney Rock Village Board of Adjustment within 45 days of the decision.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.41 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   No sign permit shall be issued until an application for each separate sign
or sign structure is completed, submitted, and approved by the Zoning
Administrator. The initial permit shall be valid until revoked by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.42 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   An application for a sign permit may be filed by the owner of the
property on which the sign is to be erected; or by an agent, lessee, or
contract purchaser specifically authorized by the owner to file the
application. Where an agent, lessee, or contact purchaser files the
application, the agent, lessee, or contract purchaser shall provide the village
with written documentation that the owner of the property has authorized the
filing of the application.
   (B)   An application for a sign permit shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on a form prescribed by the village, along with the fee for the
permit as prescribed by the village.
   (C)   Each application for a sign permit shall contain the information
required on the application form and other information regarding the proposed
sign as the Zoning Administrator may deem necessary in order to determine
whether the proposed sign complies with the applicable requirements of this
chapter and other applicable ordinances of the village.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the application is
complete. If it is determined that the application is not complete, then the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of any deficiencies and shall
take no further steps to process the application until the applicant remedies
the deficiencies.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.43 PLANS, SPECIFICATIONS AND DATA REQUIRED FOR PERMIT.
   The application shall be accompanied by complete information as required on
forms provided by the Zoning Administrator and shall include, without being
limited to: a site plan and elevation drawings of the proposed sign, indicating
the proposed location of the sign, setbacks, height, dimensions and square
footage; the type of illumination of the proposed sign; and any other data as
the Zoning Administrator may determine is necessary for review of the
application. The Zoning Administrator shall not issue a sign permit unless the
plans, specifications, and intended use of the sign conform in all respects to
the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.44 PERMITS; ISSUING.
   A permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator upon proper application
and upon finding that the proposed sign satisfies the requirements set forth in
this chapter. New sign construction shall not commence until a permit is
issued. The sign must be erected and completed within 90 days of the date the
permit was issued or the sign permit shall become null and void.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.45 PERMIT FEES.
   A permit fee shall be paid for all new signs required to obtain a sign
permit. Existing sign structures are exempt from the permit fee. A fee schedule
for sign permits shall be determined by the Chimney Rock Village Council.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.46 PERMIT TRANSFERS.
   Valid sign permits may be transferred to new sign owners.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.47 PERMIT REVOCATIONS.
   Valid sign permits for new signs and permitted nonconforming signs may be
revoked for any 1 of the following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresenting material facts by the applicant on the permit;
   (B)   Failing to construct the sign structure within 90 days from the permit
issue date. Altering, enlarging, rebuilding, or relocating a sign, except in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Allowing a sign to reach a state of dilapidation or disrepair as
determined by the Zoning Administrator; and
   (D)   Any violation of §
151.06 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.48 NOTICE GIVEN FOR REFUSING TO ISSUE PERMIT.
   The Zoning Administrator shall refuse to issue a permit for a proposed sign
that will not conform to this chapter and shall notify the owner of the
proposed sign by first class mail as to why the proposed sign does not comply.
(Ord. passed 11-14-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific penalty
is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 152: RESERVED
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD DAMAGE PROTECTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Objectives
   
153.001   Statutory authorization
   
153.002   Findings of fact
   
153.003   Statement of purpose
   
153.004   Objectives
   
153.005   Interpretation
   
153.006   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
153.007   Existing structures
General Provisions
   
153.020   Definitions
   
153.021   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
153.022   Basis for establishing the Special Flood Hazard Areas
   
153.023   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
153.024   Compliance
   
153.025   Abrogation and greater restrictions
Administration
   
153.040   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
153.041   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
153.042   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
153.043   Corrective procedures
   
153.044   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.065   General standards
   
153.066   Specific standards
   
153.067   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
153.068   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations,
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
153.069   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations, but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas
Legal Status Provisions
   
153.085   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
protection ordinance
   
153.086   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
   
153.087   Effective date
 
   
153.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES
§ 153.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21 of
Chapter 143; Parts 3, 5, and 8 of Article 19 of Chapter 160A; and Article 8 of
Chapter 160A of the North Carolina General Statutes, delegated to local
governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote
the public health, safety, and general welfare. Therefore, the Village Board of
Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina, does ordain this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of Chimney Rock Village,
North Carolina, and its extraterritorial jurisdictions (ETJs), are subject to
periodic inundation, which may result in loss of life and property, hazards to
public health and safety, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
damage to and disruption of public utilities, extraordinary public expenditures
for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These losses and hazards are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains, which increase flood heights and velocities, and
by the occupancy in flood-prone areas by uses that are vulnerable to floods, or
hazardous to other properties, because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed, or otherwise protected from flood damages.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property, due to water or erosion, or increases in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses that are vulnerable to floods, including facilities
that serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers that accommodate and restrain floodwaters;
   (D)   Prevent or control filling, grading, dredging, and other development
that may increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters, or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas; and
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.005 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of the
governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.006 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the Special Flood Hazard Areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of Chimney Rock Village, or by any officer or employee thereof, for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter, or any
administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.007 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair of a building or structure
existing on the effective date of this chapter, and located totally or
partially within the floodplain, floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream
setback; provided there is no additional encroachment below the regulatory
flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area, or stream
setback; and provided that such repairs meet all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.020 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage,
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure, and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as accessory structures on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. Refer to SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. Otherwise known as the 100-year flood.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a Special Flood Hazard Area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using
FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. Refer to STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste, or any constituent part of the solid
waste, may enter the environment, be emitted into the air, or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building that has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the Special Flood Hazard
Areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The Flood Insurance Study report includes
Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs).
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Insurance Rate Map that
reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Refer to FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property,
water and sanitation facilities, structures, and their contents. Floodproofing
of structures is not permitted within the jurisdiction of Chimney Rock Village.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation by more than 1.0 foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation to account for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the freeboard
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility that cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. 130A, Article 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register,
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of Interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks in
communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
      (4)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program.
Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US Department of
the Interior, in cooperation with the North Carolina Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer, as having met the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended in
1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage, in an area other than
a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that
such an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of
the applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter. Please refer
to the definition of REFERENCE LEVEL.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. Market value may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of this chapter, the National Geodetic Vertical
Datum (NGVD) as corrected in 1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as
corrected in 1988, or other vertical control datum used as a reference for
establishing varying elevations within the floodplain, to which base flood
elevations shown on a FIRM are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to
determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management
regulations, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation by more than 1
foot, as designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after the effective date of the initial Flood
Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before the effective date of the initial Flood Insurance
Rate Map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE and/or NUISANCE. Anything injurious to the safety or health
of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons,
or that unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary manner,
of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less, when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of
the lowest floor for structures within all Special Flood Hazard Areas. In order
for a new or substantially improved structure to be in compliance with this
chapter, the REFERENCE LEVEL shall be at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In Special Flood Hazard Areas where base flood elevations have been
determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus 2.0 feet of freeboard. In
Special Flood Hazard Areas where no BFE has been established, this elevation
shall be at least 2.0 feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
chapter, or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, including but not limited to,
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
153.022 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START OF
CONSTRUCTION means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor
does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations, or
the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds, not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period, whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. Refer to the definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure, for the more restrictive of either:
      (1)   On 2 separate occasions during a 10-year period, for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred; or
      (2)   On a single occasion where the structure in inundated with 4.0 feet
or greater of flood water above the lowest finished floor.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, including
structures that have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the actual
repair work performed, taking place during the life of the structure, for the
more restrictive of either:
      (1)   The increase of total area under roof by more than 35%; or
      (2)   The cost or the improvements equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the start of construction of the improvement.
The term does not include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications that have been identified by the
community code enforcement official, and that are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure whose planned use on a parcel is generally
less than 3 months.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in §§
153.040 et seq. and §§
153.065 et seq. is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSEL). The height, in relation to mean sea level,
of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal
or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature, on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.021 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all Special Flood Hazard Areas within the
jurisdiction, including extraterritorial jurisdictions (ETJs), of Chimney Rock
Village, North Carolina, and within the jurisdiction of any other community
whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such applicability.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.022 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The Special Flood Hazard Areas are those identified under the
Cooperating Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina
and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) and its accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), for Rutherford
County, North Carolina and Incorporated Areas, dated July 2, 2008, and any
revisions thereto, which are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of
this chapter.
   (B)   The initial Flood Insurance Rate Maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date:
      (1)   Rutherford County Unincorporated Area, dated June 1, 1987; and
      (2)   Chimney Rock Village, dated June 1, 1987.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.023 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within Special Flood Hazard Areas, determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
153.022 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.024 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.025 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another regulation conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.040 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator for Chimney Rock Village, hereinafter referred to
as the Floodplain Administrator, is hereby appointed to administer and
implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.041 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within Special Flood Hazard Areas. To apply for a floodplain
development permit, the following items shall be presented to the Floodplain
Administrator:
      (1)   A plot plan, drawn to scale, which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary(ies) of the Special Flood Hazard Area, the floodway
(s), and non-encroachment area(s), as delineated on the FIRM or other flood map
as determined in §
153.022, or a statement that the entire lot is within the Special Flood Hazard
Area, floodway, and/or non-encroachment area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area, as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map, and the base flood elevation, where
provided, as set forth in §
153.022;
         (d)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (e)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
Special Flood Hazard Area, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or protected;
      (3)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to, the proposed method of
elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill, solid backfilled foundation, open
foundation on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
      (4)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, to be located
and constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (5)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      (6)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles, when
applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
153.066(F) are met.
      (7)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse, and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
      (8)   Application fees. A non-refundable application fee of $1,000 shall
be included with the permit application.
      (9)   Review fees. A retainer of $1,000 shall be included with the permit
application to cover the costs associated with the review of the permit
application. The final review fee shall be the actual cost, based upon the
number of hours and an established hourly rate, to review the permit
application. Prior to issuing the floodplain development permit, the Floodplain
Administrator shall subtract the amount of the review fee from the retainer,
and refund the remaining amount to the applicant with the permit. If the amount
in the retainer falls below $500, the Floodplain Administrator, at this or her
discretion, may require an additional amount to make the retainer whole before
continuing with the review of the permit. If the applicant fails to respond to
this request within 14 days, the permit shall be denied and the applicant shall
be prohibited from refilling the project for 90 days.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit.
      (2)   The Special Flood Hazard Area determination for the proposed
development, in accordance with available data specified in §
153.022.
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level, all attendant utilities, and all public utilities.
      (4)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines.
      (5)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the Special Flood Hazard Area of any watercourse.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation Certificates.
         (a)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by such review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   An Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required before
final approval of the footing/foundation inspection, in order to establish the
reference level. Within 7 calendar days of establishment of the reference level
elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the reference
level, in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the 7-day calendar
period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit
holder's risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
         (c)   A final as-built Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Deed restriction. A copy of the deed will be submitted to the
Floodplain Administrator. The deed will note the location of the SFHA and the
BFE, and the restrictions of any development in these areas.
      (3)   Placement of some manufactured homes. If a manufactured home is
placed within Zone A or AE, and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36
inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is
required, in accordance with the provisions of §
153.066(B).
      (4)   Watercourse alteration or relocation. If a watercourse is to be
altered or relocated, a description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation; a professional engineer's certified report on the effects of the
proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse, and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map showing
the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation shall all be
submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain development
permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. Recreational vehicles meeting
requirements of §
153.066(F)(1), if located within Zone A or AE, are exempt from the elevation
certification requirements specified in items (1) and (2) of this division.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.042 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
   (B)   Review all proposed development within Special Flood Hazard Areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received.
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of Crime
Control and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator
for the National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation
of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal
Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained.
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas.
   (F)   In accordance with §
153.041(C), obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
following:
      (1)   The reference level (including basement) and all attendant
utilities of all new and substantially improved structures, and
      (2)   Of all public utilities.
   (G)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the Special Flood Hazard Areas, floodways, or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation, as provided in this subchapter.
   (H)   When base flood elevation, floodway or non-encroachment area data has
not been provided in accordance with §
153.022, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data,
along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state, or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
153.068(B)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   When base flood elevation is provided, but no floodway or non-
encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of §
153.022, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source, in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure, or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a Special Flood Hazard Area is above
the base flood elevation, advise the property owner of the option to apply for
a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the LOMA issued
by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file.
   (K)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter, and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended.
   (L)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community, at any reasonable hour, for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (M)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building, or part
thereof, is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (N)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked.
   (O)   Make periodic inspections throughout the Special Flood Hazard Areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department, at any reasonable hour, for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action.
   (P)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
153.043.
   (Q)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests.
   (R)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited to,
the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
153.022 of this chapter, including any revisions thereto, including Letters of
Map Change issued by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs.
   (S)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMS, including Letters of
Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) and Letters of Map Revision (LOMR).
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.043 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than 10 days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel, and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within 60 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body, by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within 10 days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E) Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made, or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.044 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Village Appeal Board as established by Chimney Rock Village,
hereinafter referred to as the “appeal board”, shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures, upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure, and that the
variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
153.020 of this chapter, provided provisions of §
153.044(I)(2), (3), and (5) have been satisfied, and such
facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood, and create no additional threats to public safety.
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage, and the effect of such damage on the individual owner,
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
153.020 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development,
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice, specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built, and that such construction
below the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that
the issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood
elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25
per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification shall be maintained with a
record of all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions, and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency
and the State of North Carolina upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create a nuisance, cause fraud on or
victimization of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in Special Flood Hazard Areas, provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community.
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the Special Flood
Hazard Area.
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws.
      (5)   Chimney Rock Village has notified the Secretary of the North
Carolina Department of Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to
grant a variance at least 30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.065 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas, the following provisions are required of
all development activities:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following criteria:
      (1)   Shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   Shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant
to flood damage.
      (3)   Shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages.
   (B)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These
include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters, and electric outlets/switches.
   (C)   All new and replacement water supply systems and sanitary sewage
systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters
into the system.
   (D)   New and replacement sanitary sewerage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
   (E)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (F)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements to a structure
shall meet the requirements of new construction as contained in this chapter.
   (G)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
153.044(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use, or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility, may be located in a Special Flood Hazard Area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated to at least the regulatory flood
protection elevation, and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
153.041(C).
   (H)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall meet
the following criteria:
      (1)   Shall be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (2)   Shall have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
electrical, and water systems, located and constructed to minimize flood
damage.
      (3)   Shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      (4)   Shall have received all necessary permits from those governmental
agencies for which approval is required by federal or state law, including
Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33
U.S.C. 1334.
   (I)   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard Area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (J)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.066 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all Special Flood Hazard Areas where base flood elevation data has been
provided, as set forth in §
153.022 or §
153.068, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
153.065, are required:
   (A)   Residential and non-residential construction. New construction and
substantial improvement of any residential or non-residential structure shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.020 of this chapter.
   (B)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
153.020 of this chapter.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (D) below.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (C)   Fill. The placement of fill in the Special Flood Hazard Area is
prohibited.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed areas of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which are below the base flood elevation,
are not permitted.
   (E)   Additions/improvements. Additions and/or improvements to a structure,
when the addition and/or improvements, in combination with or without any
interior modifications to the existing structure, are:
      (1)   Not a substantial improvement, only the addition and/or
improvements must comply with the standards for new construction.
      (2)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is READY FOR HIGHWAY
USE if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect-type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including those
outlined in §
153.066(A) and (B).
   (G)   Temporary structures.
      (1)   Temporary structures shall be elevated so that the reference level
of the lowest floor is no lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation,
as defined in §
153.020 of this chapter.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for a
temporary structure, the applicant must submit to the Floodplain Administrator
a plan for the removal of such structure(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash
flood or other type of flood warning notification. The following information
shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain Administrator for review and
written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed 3 months, renewable up to 1 year;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual
responsible for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the Special Flood Hazard Area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages, and the like) are to be placed within a Special Flood Hazard Area, the
following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall be elevated so that the reference level
of the lowest floor is no lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation,
as defined in §
153.020 of this chapter.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (3)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (6)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
153.065(A);
      (7)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
153.065(B); and
      (8)   An elevation certificate.
         (a)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation
certificate.
         (b)   Elevation certifications are required for all other accessory
structures in accordance with §
153.041(C)(1).
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.067 FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the Special Flood Hazard Areas established in §
153.022. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to the
standards outlined in §§
153.065 and
153.066, shall apply to all development within such areas.
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, manufactured homes and other developments, shall be permitted in
a floodway or non-encroachment areas, with the exception of the following
activities:
      (1)   Transportation projects such as roads and bridges, sidewalks, paths
and trails;
      (2)   Public utilities (potable water, and wastewater mains and treatment
plants, electric power, telephone, cable television and other transmission
lines, natural gas mains, and the like);
      (3)   Parks and greenways; and
      (4)   Stream restoration/enhancement projects, provided that such
activities satisfy the requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   No encroachments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood,
based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator,
along with a no-rise certificate signed and sealed by a qualified licensed
engineer prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion of
the proposed encroachment.
   (C)   If division (B) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.068 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS,
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Within the Special Flood Hazard Areas there are areas designated as
Approximate Zone A and established in §
153.022, where no base flood elevation data has been provided by FEMA. In
addition to the provisions of §§
153.065,
153.066 and
153.067, the following provisions shall apply to all development within such
areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development, except activities listed in §
153.068(A), shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet each side from top
of bank or 5 times the width of the stream, whichever is greater, unless
certification, with supporting technical data, by a registered professional
engineer is provided, demonstrating that such encroachments shall not result in
any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   The base flood elevation used in determining the regulatory flood
protection elevation shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When base flood elevation data is available from other sources, all
new construction and substantial improvements within such areas shall also
comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter, and shall be elevated or
floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
153.065 and
153.066.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §§
153.065 and
153.066.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation data, if development is greater
than 5 acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such base flood
elevation data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with §
153.041, and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated
or floodproofed (non-residential) to or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation, as defined in §
153.020. All other applicable provisions of §
153.066 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.069 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS, BUT
WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation data is provided by FEMA
or is available from another source, but neither floodway nor non-encroachment
areas are identified for a Special Flood Hazard Area on the FIRM or in the FIS
report, the following requirements shall apply to all development within such
areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
153.065 and
153.066; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted, unless certification, with supporting
technical data, by a registered professional engineer is provided,
demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any point
within the community
(Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 153.085 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PROTECTION ORDINANCE.
   (A)   This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage protection ordinance enacted November 4, 1996,
as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal, but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced. The enactment of this ordinance shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage protection
ordinance of Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina enacted on November 4, 1996,
as amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   The date of the initial flood damage protection ordinance for
Rutherford County Unincorporated Areas is March 16, 1987.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.086 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development, or any part thereof,
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator, or his or her authorized agents, before the effective date of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of 6 months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
§ 153.087 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective April 15, 2008.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
  § 153.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each violation of an
individual provision of this chapter, and each day such violation continues,
shall be considered a separate offense (30 days in jail or $50 per day, per
violation). Nothing contained herein shall prevent Chimney Rock Village from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2008)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Short title
   
154.002   Authority and enactment clause
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Purpose
   
154.005   Definitions
   
154.006   Variance
   
154.007   Amendments procedures
   
154.008   Fees
   
154.009   Effective date
Compliance
   
154.025   Approval of plats
   
154.026   Permits
   
154.027   Selling of lots
Procedure for Review and Approval of Subdivision Plats
   
154.040   General
   
154.041   Procedure for approval of minor subdivisions
   
154.042   Sketch plan and preliminary plan
   
154.043   Preliminary plat
   
154.044   Improvements installation or guarantees
   
154.045   Final plat
   
154.046   Recording of the final plat
   
154.047   Exceptions
General Requirements
   
154.060   Conformity to existing maps or plans
   
154.061   Continuation of adjoining street system
   
154.062   Large tracts or parcels
   
154.063   Street names
   
154.064   Surveying and placement of monuments
   
154.065   Contour map
   
154.066   Air quality
   
154.067   Access to lot
Improvements Required and Minimum Standards of Design
   
154.080   Suitability of land
   
154.081   Streets and roads
   
154.082   Water and sewer systems
   
154.083   Sedimentation control
   
154.084   Blocks
   
154.085   Sidewalks
   
154.086   Lots
   
154.087   Building setback lines
   
154.088   Easements
Legal Provisions
   
154.105   Abrogation
 
   
154.999   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Steep slope development, see §§
150.70 through
150.80
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 SHORT TITLE.
   These regulations shall be known and may be cited as the “Subdivision
Regulations of Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina”.
(2002 Code, Art. I) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT CLAUSE.
   The Chimney Rock Village Council, pursuant to the authority conferred by an
act of the General Assembly of the State of North Carolina (G.S. Art. 19, Part
2 of Ch. 160A), does hereby ordain and enact into law these sections and
chapters.
(2002 Code, Art. II) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   On and after the date of adoption, these regulations shall govern each and
every subdivision of land within Chimney Rock Village and its Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction (hereinafter referred to as the “village”).
(2002 Code, Art. III) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.004 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to support and guide the proper subdivision
of land within the defined jurisdiction of Chimney Rock Village, as identified
in §
154.003, in order to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
the village. This chapter is designed to provide for the orderly development of
Chimney Rock Village; for the coordination of streets and highways with other
public facilities; for the dedication or reservation of rights-of-way or
easements for streets and utility purposes; and for the distribution of
population and traffic, which shall avoid congestion and overcrowding, and
which will create conditions essential to public health, safety and the general
welfare. This chapter is designed to further facilitate adequate provision for
water, sewerage, parks, schools and playgrounds, and also to facilitate the
further re-subdivision of larger tracts into smaller parcels of land.
(2002 Code, Art. IV) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. A conservation development district shall
mean an area of land that has been zoned as a conservation development
district. A subdivision of conservation development district land (applied for
subdivision under § 154.047 of this chapter) shall permit lots to be reduced
below the minimum size and dimension requirements of the subdivision ordinance,
provided an amount of common open space not less than 50% shall be designated,
dedicated, reserved, and restricted in perpetuity from further development and
is set aside in perpetuity for open space and preservation. The number of lots
in a conservation development district subdivision shall not exceed that
permitted in a conventional subdivision allowed for that subdivision were it to
be developed without a conservation development district overlay.
   DOUBLE-FRONTAGE LOT. A continuous lot of the same depth as the width of a
block containing 2 tiers of lots and which is accessible from both of the
streets upon which it fronts.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner for use by the public, a corporation
or person(s) of a strip of land for specified purposes.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWER SYSTEM. Any septic tank, privy or other source used to
supply a single connection.
   INDIVIDUAL WATER SYSTEM. Any well, spring, stream or other source used to
supply a single connection.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership or for development or both. The word LOT
includes the words “plot” or “parcel”.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision of a tract of land into not more than 4
lots where the intention is not to further subdivide the tract of land and
where no new street right-of-way is involved except where defined by the Zoning
Administrator as a private minor road. The Zoning Administrator shall determine
if a subdivision may be considered as a minor subdivision only after the
following conditions have been met:
      (1)   The subdivision meets the requirements for a minor subdivision as
defined in this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator has received a signed letter of intent
from the subdivider or his or her agent in a form acceptable to the Zoning
Administrator, clearly stating that the application for consideration of the
subdivision as a minor subdivision is in no way submitted to circumvent the
requirements of this chapter pertaining to subdivisions other than minor
subdivisions.
      (3)   That the subdivider or his or her agent fully understands, to the
satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator, that any further subdivision of the
parent tract of land or any lots or parcels of land therefrom subdivided which
are subject to the provisions of this chapter shall not be considered as a
minor subdivision.
   OFFICIAL MAPS OR PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Village
Council as a guide for the development of the village.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Chimney Rock Village Planning Board.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be or has been
subdivided.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY. A roadway serving 2 or fewer lots, buildings sites or
other parcels of land, and not intended for public ingress or egress.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. Any sewer system owned and operated by a local unit of
government in Rutherford County, or other sewage treatment facility serving 2
or more connections, or any wastewater treatment system having a discharge to
surface waters when approved by the Division of Environmental Management of the
Department of Natural Resources and Community Development, or ground absorption
system serving 2 or more connections when approved by the County Sanitarian.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Water systems serving 15 or more connections or serving
more than 25 year-round residents are classified as public water supplies by
state law, and plans and specifications must be approved by the Department of
Human Resources, Division of Health Services. Also, water supply systems
serving from 2 to 14 connections shall be regulated by the appropriate County
Board of Health.
   SINGLE TIER LOT. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier or a nonresidential use and to which access from
the rear of the lot is usually prohibited.
   STREET. A defined access way for vehicular traffic including all rights-of-
way.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel into 2 or more lots,
building sites or other divisions when any 1 or more of those divisions is
created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate or
future) and shall include all divisions of land involving the dedication of a
new street or a change in the existing streets; but the following shall not be
included within this definition nor be subject to the regulations authorized by
this chapter:
       (1)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots where the total number of lots is not increased
and the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the village as
required by this chapter;
      (2)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved;
      (3)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets for public transportation system corridors;
      (4)   The division of a tract in single ownership whose entire area is no
greater than 2 acres into not more than 3 lots, where no street right-of-way
dedication is involved and where the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the
standards of the village as required by this chapter; and
      (5)   The village may allow a minor subdivision, defined as the
subdivision of a tract of land into not more than 4 lots where the intention is
not to further subdivide the tract of land and where no new street right-of-way
is involved other than as a private minor road; a private minor road being
defined as a road serving a minor subdivision and having access to an existing
state-maintained road, and which private minor road shall have a right-of-way
in accordance with the Division of Highways' “Minimum Construction Standards”
for subdivision roads for the eventuality of constructing a public road by the
residents of the private minor road; provided, however, the seller shall be
made aware by the subdivider of the provision of G.S.§ 136-102.6.
   WORD INTERPRETATION. For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be
interpreted as follows:
      (1)   MAY.  Is permissive.
      (2)   ORDINANCE and REGULATIONS. The Subdivision Regulations for Chimney
Rock Village, North Carolina.
      (3)    REGISTER OF DEEDS. The Register of Deeds of Rutherford County,
North Carolina.
      (4)   SHALL and WILL. Are mandatory.
      (5)   VILLAGE. Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina.
      (6)   The present tense includes the future tense and the future tense
includes the present tense.
      (7)   The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the
singular.
    ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator as designated by the Chimney
Rock Village Council.
(2002 Code, Art. VI) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005; Am.
Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
§ 154.006 VARIANCE.
   Where, because of severe topographical or other conditions peculiar to a
site, strict adherence to the provisions of this chapter would cause an
unnecessary hardship, the Planning Board may authorize a variance to the terms
of this chapter only to the extent that is absolutely necessary and not to an
extent which would violate the intent of this chapter. Any variance thus
authorized is required to be entered in writing in the minutes of the Planning
Board and the reasoning on which the departure was justified set forth.
(2002 Code, Art. X) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.007 AMENDMENTS PROCEDURES.
   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Village Council as
herein specified, but no amendment shall become effective unless it shall have
been proposed by or shall have been submitted to the Planning Board for review
and recommendation. The Planning Board shall have 60 days from the date of
presentation to the Planning Board within which to submit its report. If the
Planning Board fails to submit a report within the specified time, it shall be
deemed to have recommended approval of the amendment. No amendment shall be
adopted by the Village Council until they have held a public hearing on the
amendment. Notice of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in Rutherford County at least once a week for 2 successive calendar
weeks prior to the hearing. The initial notice shall appear not more than 25 or
less than 10 days prior to the hearing date. In computing the 10 to 25 days
prior, the date of publication is not to be counted, but the date of the
hearing is.
(2002 Code, Art. XI) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.008 FEES.
   Any fees presented by outside consultants engaged by Chimney Rock Village,
when deemed necessary to assist in the review and enforcement of the
subdivision regulations, shall be the obligation of the subdivider, and shall
be paid in full prior to approval of any preliminary or final plat by Chimney
Rock Village.
(Ord. passed 5-25-2005)
§ 154.009 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption
by the Chimney Rock Village Council on October 18, 2005.
(2002 Code, Art. XII, § 1203) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
COMPLIANCE
§ 154.025 APPROVAL OF PLATS.
   A plat shall be prepared, approved and recorded pursuant to this chapter
whenever any subdivision of land occurs within the defined jurisdiction of
Chimney Rock Village. All plats for the subdivision of land shall conform to
the requirements of this chapter and shall be submitted in accordance with the
procedures and specifications established herein. No plat of a subdivision of
land within the defined jurisdiction of Chimney Rock Village shall be filed or
recorded by the Rutherford County Register of Deeds until it has been submitted
to and given final approval as provided herein and until the approval is
entered on the face of the final plat by the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of
the Chimney Rock Village Planning Board.
(2002 Code, Art. V, § 500) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.026 PERMITS.
   No building permit shall be issued for any construction in any subdivision
for which a plat is required to be approved until the final plat has been
approved and recorded.
(2002 Code, Art. V, § 501) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.027 SELLING OF LOTS.
   (A)   Penalties for transferring lots in unapproved subdivisions. Any person
who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land thereafter subdivides
his or her land in violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by
reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision
of the land before the plat has been properly approved under this chapter and
recorded in the office of the appropriate Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of
a Class 1 misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of
transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land
shall not exempt the transaction from this penalty. The village may bring an
action for injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance, or sale
of land and the court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction and
order requiring the offending party to comply with the subdivision regulations.
Building permits may be denied for lots that have been illegally subdivided. In
addition to other remedies, the village may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the unlawful subdivision of land, to restrain, correct,
or abate the violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct.
   (B)   Transferring or selling of lots. The provisions of this section shall
not prohibit any owner or its agent from entering into contracts to sell or
lease by reference to an approved preliminary plat for which a final plat has
not yet been properly approved under this subdivision regulation or recorded
with the Register of Deeds, provided the contract does all of the following:
      (1)   Incorporates as an attachment a copy of the preliminary plat
referenced in the contract and obligates the owner to deliver to the buyer a
copy of the recorded plat prior to closing and conveyance;
      (2)   Plainly and conspicuously notifies the prospective buyer or lessee
that a final subdivision plat has not been approved or recorded at the time of
the contract, that no governmental body will incur any obligation to the
prospective buyer or lessee with respect to the approval of the final
subdivision plat, that changes between the preliminary and final plats are
possible, and that the contract or lease may be terminated without breach by
the buyer or lessee if the final recorded plat differs in any material respect
from the preliminary plat;
      (3)   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat does not
differ in any material respect from the plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than 5 days after the delivery of a copy of the final recorded plat;
and
      (4)   Provides that if the approved and recorded final plat differs in
any material respect from the preliminary plat referred to in the contract, the
buyer or lessee may not be required by the seller or lessor to close any
earlier than 15 days after the delivery of the final recorded plat, during
which 15-day period the buyer or lessee may terminate the contract without
breach or any further obligation and may receive a refund of all earnest money
or prepaid purchase price.
   (C)   Construction, lease contracts. The provisions of this section shall
not prohibit any owner or his or her agent from entering into contracts to sell
or lease land by reference to an approved preliminary plat for which a final
plat has not been properly approved under this subdivision regulation or
recorded with the Register of Deeds where the buyer or lessee is any person who
has contracted to acquire or lease the land for the purpose of engaging in the
business of construction of residential, commercial, or industrial buildings on
the land, or for the purpose of resale or lease of the land to persons engaged
in that kind of business, provided that no conveyance of that land may occur
and no contract to lease it may become effective until after the final plat has
been properly approved under this subdivision regulation and recorded with the
Register of Deeds.
(2002 Code, Art. V, § 502) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005;
Am. Ord. passed 6-20-2006)
PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF SUBDIVISION PLATS
§ 154.040 GENERAL.
   (A)   No final plat of a subdivision within the defined jurisdiction of
Chimney Rock Village shall be recorded by the Register of Deeds of Rutherford
County until it has been approved as provided herein. To secure approval of a
final plat, the subdivider shall follow the procedure established in this
section. Furthermore, no street shall be accepted for ownership and
maintenance, nor shall water, sewer or other public facilities or services be
extended to or connected with any subdivision for which a final plat has not
been approved.
   (B)   Prior to the submittal of a subdivision plat, every subdivision
applicant is required to meet with the Zoning Administrator in a pre-
application conference. The purpose of this conference is to provide
clarification and assistance in the preparation and submission of plats for
approval. The Zoning Administrator shall also determine whether the proposed
subdivision qualifies as a minor or major subdivision.
   (C)   To assure that adequate public utilities and services are available,
the Zoning Administrator shall review for compliance with this section and
other village ordinances and regulations. The Zoning Administrator may meet
with any agency or officials deemed necessary to adequately review the plat.
The Zoning Administrator and shall complete such review within 15 days after
submittal. If all applicable provisions of this section and other village
ordinances and regulations are met, the Zoning Administrator shall permit the
applicant to proceed for sketch plan approval.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 700) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005;
Am. Ord. passed 6-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 154.041 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In lieu of the procedures set forth in the remaining sections of this
subchapter, the subdivider may apply for final approval for any minor
subdivision through the procedure set forth herein.
   (B)   This procedure is designed to eliminate the requirement for submission
of a preliminary plat, thus allowing the subdivider to submit only the final
plat for approval.
   (C)   The final plat for a minor subdivision shall contain all information
required in §
154.045, and the subdivision shall be subject to all development requirements
of this chapter. Seven copies of the final plat and all supporting information
for all minor subdivisions must be presented to the Zoning Administrator on a
business day at least 10 days prior to a regular or special meeting of the
Planning Board.
   (D)   The application, the final plat and all supporting information must be
deemed complete a minimum of 10 days prior to a Board meeting in order to be
scheduled for a Board meeting. Additional time may be required if outside
technical review assistance is needed. The Planning Board shall review each
minor subdivision and shall find that it either does or does not meet the
requirements of this chapter. The finding shall be in writing and recorded in
the records of the Planning Board.
   (E)   Based upon the findings, the Planning Board shall approve, approve
conditionally or disapprove the proposed minor subdivision within 32 days after
its first consideration. A conditional approval shall be made upon a finding of
the Planning Board that all conditions have been met except for minor
provisions which are easily completed or corrected. If the plat is approved
conditionally, the conditions shall be specified by the Planning Board and if
it so provides by a majority vote of those present, it may delegate to the
Zoning Administrator the right to approve the final plat upon a finding that
the conditions have been met.
   (F)   The Planning Board shall note on the plat that the Zoning
Administrator shall have authority to sign the final plat. If the Planning
Board, however, reserves the right to approve the final plat, first
consideration shall be given of the plat at the next regular or special meeting
after the final plat has been submitted in accordance with this section. If the
Planning Board disapproves the final plat, the Planning Board shall find in
writing the provisions of this chapter with which the plat does not comply and
the facts constituting non-compliance for the provisions.
   (G)   One copy of the findings shall be sent to the subdivider within 14
days of disapproval, and 1 copy shall be retained by the Planning Board as a
part of its proceedings. If the plat is disapproved, the subdivider may make
the changes as needed to bring the plat into compliance with the provisions of
this chapter and resubmit the same for reconsideration by the Planning Board
pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section.
   (H)   If the proposed minor subdivision is approved by the Planning Board,
or approved conditionally as set forth above, a statement to that effect must
appear on each copy of the plat presented. The approved subdivision plat must
be recorded by the subdivider with the Rutherford County Register of Deeds
within 30 days after approval.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 701) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-16-2002;
Am. Ord. passed 8-23-2005; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-20-
2006)
§ 154.042 SKETCH PLAN AND PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Sketch plan.
      (1)   General. The subdivider may submit a sketch plan prior to
submitting a preliminary plat. The purpose of submitting the sketch plan is to
afford the subdivider an opportunity to obtain the advice and assistance of the
Zoning Administrator, in order to facilitate the subsequent preparation and
approval of the preliminary plat. The Zoning Administrator shall discuss with
the applicant any problems found from review of the sketch plan that would need
to be addressed prior to submittal of a subdivision plat. This procedure does
not require formal application or fee.
      (2)   Suggested information. It is suggested that the sketch design plan
depict or contain the following information:
         (a)   A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the subdivision in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads and waterways;
         (b)   The boundaries of the tract and the portion of the tract to be
subdivided;
         (c)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
         (d)   The existing and proposed uses of land within the subdivision
and adjoining it;
         (e)   The proposed street and lot layout;
         (f)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner;
         (g)   Street and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties; and
         (h)   The zoning classification(s) of the tract and adjacent
properties, if applicable.
   (B)   Preliminary plan.
      (1)   General. The subdivider must submit a preliminary plan prior to
submitting a preliminary plat. The purpose of submitting the mandatory
preliminary plan is for the Planning Board to ascertain the scope of the
proposed project, and to afford the subdivider an opportunity to obtain the
advice and assistance of the Planning Board, in order to facilitate the
subsequent preparation and approval of the preliminary plat. This procedure
requires a formal application and fee.
      (2)   Information required.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit the information listed above, plus
any other information that will assist in detailing the scope and magnitude of
the proposed project.
         (b)   The applicant shall furnish cost estimates for the
infrastructure to be associated with the construction of the project
facilities, such as potable water, wastewater facilities, soil investigation
for onsite wastewater facilities, earthwork as preparation for paving, erosion
control, bridges, drainage and electric power.
      (3)   Bond requirement.  As a condition of proceeding toward the approval
of a preliminary plat, no permit, such as a land disturbance permit, shall be
issued for that which cause development or improvement of the land, or any
other action on the land, until a surety bond, a cash deposit, or a letter of
credit is deposited with the village, in an amount of 150% of the projects'
estimated cost, as approved by the Village Engineers and the Zoning
Administrator.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 702) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-16-2002;
Am. Ord. passed 8-23-2005; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-20-
2006; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 154.043 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   General. For all subdivisions, the subdivider shall submit a
preliminary plat, containing all required information, to the Zoning
Administrator at least 15 days prior to the regular Planning Board meeting at
which the plat is to be considered. Seven copies of the preliminary plat and
all supporting information shall be required, provided that additional copies
may be required by the Planning Board. The application, the preliminary plat,
and all supporting information must be deemed complete a minimum of 15 days
prior to a Board meeting in order to be scheduled for a Board meeting.
Additional time may be required if outside technical review is needed.
   (B)   Staff review and approval. Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, the
Zoning Administrator shall review it for compliance with this section and other
ordinances and regulations of the village. The Zoning Administrator shall meet
with any person or agency deemed necessary for adequate review of the plat, and
shall complete such review within 15 days after submittal. If all applicable
requirements of this section are met, the Zoning Administrator shall approve
the plat and submit it to the Planning Board. If all applicable requirements of
this section are not met, the Zoning Administrator shall disapprove the plat
and return it to the applicant with deficiencies noted.
   (C)   Information required. The preliminary plat shall be clearly and
legibly drawn at a scale of not less than 200 feet to 1 inch. The preliminary
plat shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor, and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Title block. Subdivision name, subdivider's name, address and
telephone number; north arrow; scale (denoted graphically and numerically);
date of plat preparation; location of subdivision (township, county and state);
name, address, telephone number and seal of registered surveyor preparing plat.
      (2)   Boundaries. The boundaries of the tract or portion thereof to be
subdivided, with all bearings and distances accurately shown.
      (3)   Property lines. Property lines and owners' names of adjoining
properties and/or adjoining subdivisions of record.
      (4)   Natural features. Significant natural features including wooded
areas, marshes, major rock outcrops, lakes or streams or other natural features
affecting the site.
      (5)   Physical features. Existing physical features including buildings,
streets, railroads, power lines, utility easements and village limit lines both
on or adjacent to the land to be subdivided.
      (6)   Land to be subdivided. If the land to be subdivided warrants
special consideration because of topographical, sloping land, rock outcrops, or
other conditions peculiar to the site, the subdivider shall submit upon
request, a topographic map of an appropriate interval.
      (7)   Vicinity map. A sketch vicinity map showing the location of the
subdivision in relation to the surrounding area.
      (8)   Street specifications. Proposed streets showing pavement widths, if
applicable, rights-of-way, curbing, if any, and proposed street names.
      (9)   Street plans. If a street is to be dedicated for public use, a
letter of approval for the proposed street plan shall accompany the preliminary
plat indicating that street plans have been reviewed and approved in the
following manner:
         (a)   Street plans shall be reviewed and approved by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation prior to preliminary plat approval;
         (b)   Street plans shall contain all data. Calculations and
information as required by the North Carolina Department of Transportation; and
         (c)   The developer shall meet all other requirements on G.S. § 136-
102.6.
      (10)   Water and sewer layouts. Sketch view of proposed water and sewer
system layouts (excluding individual wells and septic systems), shall show the
location of lines, line sizes, approximate location of manholes, pumps,
hydrants, force mains and the connection of the proposed system(s) with the
existing systems.
      (11)   Approval. Approval of proposed water and sewer systems (see §
154.082 for further details):
         (a)   If a new public water supply and/or sewage disposal system is to
be utilized, a letter of approval from the North Carolina Department of
Environment, Health and Natural Resources shall be submitted with the
preliminary plat. In addition, when any expansion of an existing public system
is utilized, the preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a letter of approval
from the owner of the public system.
         (b)   If individual wells and/or septic tanks are to be utilized, a
copy of the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Rutherford County Health
Department for review and recommendation. The subdivider shall submit a written
statement from the Health Department indicating that each lot is suitable for
the individual systems, or in the alternative, the subdivider shall submit a
written statement indicating that in lieu of the certification, the subdivider
will comply with the provisions of §
154.044 of this chapter.
      (12)   Lines. All proposed lot and street right-of-way lines with
approximate dimensions, lot and block numbers, all easements, designation of
any dedication or reservations to be made, and proposed use of land if other
than single-family detached residences.
      (13)   Acreage. Total acreage in tract to be subdivided; smallest lot
size in square feet; total number of lots; zoning district, if applicable.
      (14)   Setback lines. Building setback lines.
      (15)   Preliminary subdivision plat.
         (a)   The preliminary subdivision plat must be accompanied by
satisfactory evidence as to the proposed method and system of water supply and
sanitary sewage collection and disposal.
         (b)   The installation of all the systems except wells or septic tanks
serving only 1 connection shall be required prior to preliminary plat approval
unless financially guaranteed.
         (c)   The systems may be owned and operated by a public or private
entity. Any well or septic tank or alternative sewer disposal system serving
only 1 connection shall be approved by the County Health Department prior to
preliminary plat approval. For all new systems or expansion of existing systems
serving 2 or more connections, approval shall be according to state statutes.
All subdivisions containing 5 or more lots shall install water lines of 6
inches or greater to be able to serve property owners when water service
becomes available.
         (d)   Subdivisions having 10 or more lots shall be connected to the
village water system or shall be served by an independent community water
system. The system shall be designed to provide minimum fire protection as
required by the Village Council.
         (e)   Where access to the village water distribution system is
available within ½ mile of any new subdivision or the extension of an existing
subdivision, the subdivision or extension of an existing subdivision shall be
connected to the village water system. Where an independent community water
system is established, the system shall be connected to the village system and
dedicated to the village at the time as the village is able to provide service
to the subdivision.
         (f)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by written assurance
that plans for the new or expansion of existing systems have been approved by
the appropriate state and/or local agencies. If the developer wishes to install
the new or expanded systems prior to preliminary plat approval, then submission
of the preliminary plat shall be accompanied by written approval of the
installation of the systems by the appropriate state and/or local agencies.
Prior to preliminary plat approval, if the developer wishes to financially
guarantee the installation of the systems, then submission of the preliminary
plat shall be accompanied by written approval of plans for the systems from the
appropriate state and/or local agencies. In addition, the village will require
that all water and sewer installations meet the requirements contained within
this chapter, as may be amended from time to time. Whenever any conflict occurs
between these requirements and those of the appropriate state and/or local
agency, the stricter of the 2 requirements shall apply.
   (D)   Preliminary plat review procedure.
      (1)   First consideration of the preliminary plat shall be at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Board that follows at least 10 days
after the plat is submitted. The application, the preliminary plat, and all
supporting information must be deemed complete a minimum of 10 days prior to a
Board meeting in order to be scheduled for a Board meeting. The Planning Board
shall take action on the preliminary plat at its first consideration or within
60 days of its first consideration. Should the Planning Board fail to act on
the preliminary plat within a 60-day period the plat shall be deemed to have
been denied.
      (2)   Before acting on the preliminary plat, the Planning Board may
request a report from any person or agency directly concerned with the proposed
development, including the District Highway Engineer, County Health Department,
and the other officials or agencies thought necessary. The reports shall
certify compliance with or note deviations from the requirements of these
regulations and include comments on other factors which bear upon the public
interest.
      (3)   If the Planning Board approves the preliminary plat, the approval
shall be indicated on 4 copies by the Chairperson or other authorized member of
the Planning Board. One copy shall be returned to the subdivider, and 3 copies
shall be retained by the Planning Board.
      (4)   If the Planning Board disapproved the plat, the reasons for the
actions shall be stated in writing and entered in the records of the Planning
Board. One copy of this statement shall be transmitted to the subdivider within
14 days of disapproval and 1 copy shall be retained by the Planning Board as
part of its proceedings. The subdivider may make changes and submit a revised
plat which shall be submitted, reviewed and acted upon by the Planning Board
pursuant to this section.
      (5)   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be valid for 1 year unless a
written extension is granted by the Planning Board on or before the 1 year
anniversary of the approval. If the final plat is not submitted for approval
within the 1 year period or any period of extension, the approval of the
preliminary plat shall be null and void.
      (6)   The subdivision preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a filing
fee of $100 (plats approved by the Planning Department shall be accompanied by
a filing fee of $25).
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 703) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 8-6-2001;
Am. Ord. passed 10-16-2002; Am. Ord. passed 8-23-2005; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 154.044 IMPROVEMENTS INSTALLATION OR GUARANTEES.
   (A)   Provisions. Prior to the approval of the preliminary plat by the
Planning Board, the subdivider shall provide for provision of either the
installation of or the guarantee of the improvements required by the approval
of the preliminary plat. The provision of the installation of required
improvements, or the guarantee of the required improvements, may consist of a
portion of a final plat. Upon the approval of the preliminary plat, the
subdivider may proceed with the preparation of the final plat. Prior to
approval of a final plat, the subdivider may install the required improvements
or extend the guarantees for the required improvements, at the option of the
village, for a time period acceptable to the village.
   (B)   Improvements guarantees.
      (1)   Agreement and security required. In lieu of requiring the
completion, installation and dedication of all improvements prior to
preliminary plat approval, the village may, at the village’s option, enter into
an agreement with the subdivider, whereby the subdivider shall agree to
complete all required improvements as specified on the approved preliminary
plat for that portion of the subdivision to be shown on the preliminary plat
within a reasonable time, to be determined in the agreement. Once the agreement
is signed by both parties and security required herein is provided, the
preliminary plat may be approved by the Planning Board provided it meets with
the requirements of §
154.045. To secure this agreement, the subdivider shall provide, subject to the
approval of the Planning Board, either 1 or a combination of the following
guarantees not less than 1-1/2 times the entire cost as provided herein:
         (a)   Surety performance bond(s). The subdivider shall obtain a
performance bond(s) from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in
North Carolina. The bond(s) shall be payable to Chimney Rock Village and shall
be in an amount not less than 1-1/2 times the entire cost, as estimated by the
subdivider and approved by the Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee, of
installing all required improvements as specified for that portion of the
subdivision to be shown on the preliminary plat. The duration of the bond(s)
shall be until the time as the improvements are approved by the Planning Board.
The Planning Board shall not give the approval until it has been satisfied that
all required improvements have been installed as specified for that portion of
the subdivision to be shown on the preliminary plat.
         (b)   Cash or equivalent security. The subdivider shall deposit cash
or other instruments readily convertible into cash at face value, either with
the village or in escrow with a financial institution designated as an official
depository of the village. The use of any instrument other than cash shall be
subject to the approval of the Planning Board. The amount of deposit shall be
not less than 1-1/2 times the cost, as estimated by the subdivider and approved
by the Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee, of installing all required
improvements as specified for that portion of the subdivision to be shown on
the preliminary plat. If the cash or other instrument is deposited in escrow
with a financial institution as provided above, then the subdivider shall file
with the Planning Board an agreement between the financial institution and
himself or herself guaranteeing the following:
            1.   That the escrow account shall be held in trust until released
by the Planning Board and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider in any
other matter during the term of the escrow; and
            2.   That in the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the improvements, the financial institution shall, upon notification
by the Planning Board, immediately either pay to the village all funds in the
account, or deliver to the village any other instruments fully endorsed or
otherwise made payable in full to the village.
      (2)   Default. Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the
subdivider to complete, within the time period specified in the agreement in
division (B)(1) above, the required improvements for that portion of the
subdivision to be shown on the preliminary plat, then the Planning Board may
require the subdivider, the surety, or the financial institution holding the
escrow account to pay all or a portion of the bond or escrow account to the
village. Upon payment, the village shall expend the portion of the funds as it
deems necessary to complete all or any portion of the required improvements. A
shortage of funds shall constitute a lien on the property.
      (3)   Release of guarantee security. The Planning Board may release a
portion of any security posted as the improvements are completed and
recommended for approval by the Zoning Administrator. Within 32 days after
receiving the Zoning Administrator's recommendation, the Planning Board shall
approve or not approve the improvements. At the time the Planning Board
approves all improvements placed in the subdivision, then all security posted
shall be immediately released.
      (4)   Inspections. The developer may be required to obtain an inspection
of each individual lot by the appropriate health official as to the suitability
of each lot or the installation and use of a septic tank. However, if
individual inspections are not made prior to the recordation of the plat, the
recorded plat shall so reflect. Further, if individual inspections are not made
as to the suitability of a lot for septic tank and/or individual well use, then
in the event the developer must fully disclose this to the consumer and obtain
a signed acknowledgment indicating 1 or the following:
         (a)   That the purchaser of the lot has been advised that no
individual inspections of the subject lot has been made regarding its
suitability, or lack thereof, for individual septic tank and/or well;
         (b)   The consumer accepts the lot “as is” with no further recourse
against the developer or any other party regarding the suitability of the lot
for a septic tank and/or well; and
         (c)   The consumer accepts the lot subject to the consumer's right to
have the lot tested as to its suitability for a septic tank, and if it is not
suitable and a certification to that effect is obtained within 30 days of the
date of this acknowledgment by the Rutherford County Health Department, the
developer agrees to refund the purchase price within 30 days of the receipt of
the certification.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 704) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005;
Am. Ord. passed 6-20-2006)
§ 154.045 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General. The final plat shall constitute only that portion of the
preliminary plat which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the
time of submission. No final plat shall be approved unless and until the
subdivider shall have installed in that area represented on the preliminary
plat all improvements required by this chapter (with the exceptions of
individual water and sewer systems), or shall have guaranteed their
installation, at the village’s option, as provided for in §
154.044. The subdivider shall submit 7 copies and 1 original of the final plat
and all supporting information to the Zoning Administrator on a business day no
less than 10 days prior to the regular Planning Board meeting at which it shall
be considered for approval. The application, the final plat, and all supporting
information must be deemed complete a minimum of 10 days prior to a Board
meeting in order to be scheduled for a Board meeting. Additional time may be
required if outside technical review is needed. The final plat shall be
submitted within 1 year of the date of approval of the preliminary plat unless
an extension is given in accordance with §
154.043(A).
   (B)   Contents required. The original of the final plat shall be prepared on
linen or mylar film, drawn on a sheet not more than 18 inches by 24 inches, or
not less than 8-1/2 by 14 inches, or the other size acceptable to the Register
of Deeds of Rutherford County and at a scale of not less than 200 feet to 1
inch, and shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as approved. The
plat shall conform to the provisions of GS § 47-30, as amended. The final plat
shall be prepared by a registered land surveyor and shall show the following
information:
      (1)   Subdivision name; north arrow; scale denoted graphically and
numerically; date of plat preparation; township, county, and state in which the
subdivision is located; the name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s) of the
owner(s) and the registered surveyor(s) (including the seal(s) and registration
number(s) of the registered surveyor(s));
      (2)   The exact boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided fully
dimensioned by lengths and bearings, and the location of intersecting boundary
lines of adjoining lands;
      (3)   The names and deed references (when possible) of owners of
adjoining properties and adjoining subdivision of record (proposed or under
review);
      (4)   All visible and apparent rights-of-way, watercourses, utilities,
roadways and other improvements shall be accurately located where crossing or
forming any boundary line of the property shown;
      (5)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on
the ground every straight or curved boundary line, street line, lot line,
right-of-way line, dimensions, bearings or deflection angles, radii, central
angles and tangent distances for the center line of curved streets and curved
property lines that are not the boundary of curved streets;
      (6)   The blocks numbered consecutively throughout the entire subdivision
and the lots numbered consecutively throughout each block;
      (7)   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monument markers and
control points;
      (8)   Street names and right-of-way lines of all streets and the location
and width of all adjacent streets and easements;
      (9)   The location and dimensions of all rights-of-way, utility or other
easements, riding trails, natural buffers, pedestrian or bicycle paths and
areas to be dedicated to public or private use with the purpose of each stated;
      (10)   Plans for utility layouts, including sewers, storm sewers, water
distribution lines, natural gas, telephone and electric service, illustrating
connections to existing systems or plans for individual water supply and/or
sewage disposal systems. Plans must show line sizes, the location of fire
hydrants, blow-offs, manholes, pumps, force mains and gate valves; and
      (11)   Forms for final certifications. The following certificates shall
be lettered or rubber stamped on the final plat in such a manner as to ensure
that the certificate will be legible on any prints made therefrom.
         (a)   Certificate of approval by the Planning Board.
I,                                          , Chairman of the Planning Board
hereby certify that the said Board fully approved the final plat of the
subdivision entitled                                                           
on the              day of                                       ,
20             .
                                              Chairman
OR
I,                                              , Chairman of the Planning
Board hereby certify that the said Board has conditionally approved the final
plat and has delegated the Zoning Administrator to review successful completion
of these conditions and to sign the final approval.
                                             
Chairman
And I,                                                     , Zoning
Administrator do hereby certify all conditions have been met and the final plat
is hereby approved.
                                               
Zoning Administrator
         (b)   Certificate of ownership and dedication.
I (We) hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
(our) free consent and dedicate all streets, sewers, water lines, alleys,
walks, parks, and other sites to the public or private use as noted. Further, I
(we) certify the land as shown hereon is within the platting jurisdiction of
Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina.
                                         
Date    Owner
                                         
Owner
         (c)   Certificate of survey and accuracy.
I,                                     , certify that this map was (drawn by
me) (drawn under my supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual
survey made under my supervision) (deed description recorded in Book
                 , Page                             , etc.) (other); that the
error of closure as calculated by latitudes and departures is 1:
                         ; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken
lines plotted from information found in Book
                                        , Page                                
; and that this map was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended.
Witness my hand and seal this day of                                   , A.D.,
20                             .
                                          
Registered Surveyor
                                          
License or Registration Number
         (d)   Certification of approval of the installation and construction
of streets, utilities and other required improvements.
I hereby certify:
            1.   That streets, utilities and other required improvements as
shown on the preliminary plat for the portion of the subdivision shown on this
final plat have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to
specifications shown on the preliminary plat and standards in the subdivision
entitled                                                        , or
            2.   That a guarantee of the installation of the required
improvements in an amount or manner satisfactory to Chimney Rock Village has
been received; and
            3.   That a filing fee in the amount of $                       has
been paid to the village.
         (e)   Certificate of approval of water supply and sewage disposal
systems.
I hereby certify that each lot or group of lots sold has potentially suitable
soil conditions and land areas to accommodate on-site water treatment.
Individual permit issuance shall be based upon a field investigation of each
lot to determine suitability. Permitted lots will be required to have 100%
repair area.
                                                                                                                                            
Date    To be signed by appropriate state or local agency
OR in the alternative,
I hereby certify that the water supply and/or sewage disposal system (strike
any provision which does not apply if community or public water or sewage is to
be used) shall be by individual well/individual septic tank and that the
disclosures of §
154.044 (B)(4) of the Chimney Rock Village Subdivision Ordinance will be given
to initial purchasers within the subdivision and that all other requirements of
the section shall be met.
                                               
Subdivider
         (f)   Subdivision streets disclosure statement.
Under and pursuant of G.S. § 136-102.6 (f), prospective purchasers of lots, and
property in the                                                    described by
plat recorded in Book of Maps No.                    Page                 ,
Rutherford County Register of Deeds are hereby advised that:
            1.   The roads and streets in the subdivision are private roads and
streets and have not been and will not be constructed to minimum standards
sufficient to allow their inclusion in the State Highway System for
maintenance;
            2.   Responsibility for the construction and maintenance of the
private roads and streets rests with the owners of lots within the subdivision;
and
            3.   Any subsequent inclusion of the subdivision roads and streets
in the State Highway System may be upon the condition that lot owners
participate in the cost of initial improvement of the roads and streets
sufficient to meet minimum state standards.
         (g)   Certificate.
I                                , being duly sworn depose and say that I am a
registered surveyor in the State of North Carolina and that I am the surveyor
on the                                                                       
Subdivision. That, in my position as surveyor I designed the street within the
subdivision and prepared the specifications for their construction pursuant to
my authority under G.S. § 89C. That I have reviewed the construction of other
roads within the subdivision and that in my professional opinion the roads meet
minimum standards as required by the village regulations, they have an all
weather surface of stone/gravel or pavement a minimum width of 16 feet, with 2
foot shoulders. In my opinion the gravel consists of a minimum of 8 inches of
augured base with number 7 stone and an all weather surface of stone, gravel,
or pavement. All cul de sacs have a radius of 35 feet with a minimum of 8
inches of augured base with number 7 stone and an all weather surface of stone,
gravel, or pavement; with a minimum cul de sac right of way radius of 50 feet.
This is the                           day of                                   
, 20                         .
   (C)   Certificates. Certificates (b), (c), (d), (e) and (g) in division (B)
(11) above must be presented on the final plat and signed by the designated
person prior to Planning Board approval.
   (D)   Final plat review procedure.
      (1)   Submitting the final plat. The subdivider shall submit the final
plat to the Chairperson of the Planning Board or his or her designee within 1
year of the date of preliminary plat approval (unless an extension was granted)
and at least 15 days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting at which the plat
is to be considered, and shall submit at least 7 copies of the final plat plus
1 original of the final plat.
      (2)   Staff review and approval.  Upon receipt of the final plat, the
Zoning Administrator shall review for compliance with this section and other
ordinances and regulations of the village. The plat shall be accompanied by
written approval from the appropriate agencies that all streets, water, and
other required improvements have been installed in accordance with all required
specifications, unless a guarantee of such installations has been arranged in
accordance with §
154.044. The Zoning Administrator shall meet with any person or agency deemed
necessary for adequate review of the plat. The Zoning Administrator shall
complete such review within 15 days after submittal. If all applicable
requirements of this section are met, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit
the plat to the Planning Board. If all applicable requirements of this section
are not met, the Zoning Administrator shall disapprove the plat and return it
to the applicant with deficiencies noted.
      (3)   Reports on proposed development. Before acting on the final plat,
the Planning Board may request reports from any person or agency directly
affected by the proposed development. The reports shall certify compliance with
or note deviations from the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of
this chapter.
      (4)   First consideration. First consideration of the final plat shall be
at the next regular or special meeting of the Planning Board after the final
plat is submitted in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
The Planning Board shall take action on the final plat at its first
consideration or within 60 days of its consideration. If the Planning Board
fails to act on the final plat within the prescribed period, then the final
plat shall be deemed to have been denied. Prior to final plat approval,
certificates (b), (c), (d) (e) and (g) in division (B)(11) above must be
presented on the final plat and be signed by the designated persons.
      (5)   Approval of final plat. If the Planning Board approves the final
plat, the approval shall be indicated on the original and each copy of the
final plat by certificate (a) in division (B)(11) above. If the Planning Board
conditionally approves the final plat, the conditions shall be specified by the
Planning Board and if it is so provided by majority vote of those present, it
may delegate to the Zoning Administrator the right to approve the final plat
upon a finding that the conditions have been met. The Planning Board shall note
on the plat that the Zoning Administrator shall have authority to sign the
final plat. Conditional approval shall be only in those cases where only
minimal corrections are needed.
      (6)   Disapproval of final plat. If the Planning Board does not approve
or conditionally approve the final plat, but disapproves the final plat, the
Planning Board shall find in writing the provisions of this chapter with which
the plat does not comply and the facts constituting noncompliance with the
provisions. One copy of the finding shall be sent to the subdivider within 14
days of disapproval and 1 copy shall be retained by the Planning Board as a
part of its proceedings. If the final plat is disapproved, the subdivider may
make the changes as needed to bring the plat into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and resubmit the same for reconsideration by the
Planning Board pursuant to the procedures set forth in this section.
      (7)   Approval of certificates. If the final plat is approved by the
Planning Board, the approval shall be indicated by certificate (a) in division
(B)(11) above on the original tracing on each copy of the final plat. The
original tracing of the final plat shall be recorded by the subdivider with the
Rutherford County Register of Deeds within 30 days after the date of final
approval. Otherwise, the approval shall be null and void. One print shall
become a permanent record of the Planning Board.
      (8)   Effect of plat approval on dedications. The approval of a final
plat shall not be deemed to constitute or affect the acceptance by the village
of the dedication of any ground, public utility line or other public facility
shown on the plat. However, Chimney Rock Village may by resolution of the
Village Council accept any dedication made to the public of lands or facilities
for parks, public utility lines or other public purposes, when the lands or
facilities are located within its subdivision regulation jurisdiction.
      (9)   Re-subdivision procedures. For any re-platting or re-subdivision of
land, the same procedures, rules and regulations shall apply as prescribed
herein for an original subdivision. Lot sizes may, however, be varied on an
approved plan after recording, provided that:
         (a)   No lot or tract of land shall be created or sold that is smaller
than the size shown on the approved plan;
         (b)   Drainage easements or right-of-way shall not be changed;
         (c)   The property line between the back of the lots shall not be
changed;
         (d)   The rear portion of lots shall not be subdivided from the front
part; and
         (e)   The character of the area shall be maintained.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 705) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-16-2002;
Am. Ord. passed 8-23-2005; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005; A. Ord. passed 6-20-
2006; Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 154.046 RECORDING OF THE FINAL PLAT.
   Within 30 days after the final plat has been approved by the Chimney Rock
Village Planning Board, it shall have been recorded with the Register of Deeds
of Rutherford County. Should the 30 day time limit expire before the plat is
recorded, it must be resubmitted to the Chairperson of the Planning Board or
his or her designee for reprocessing. Upon adoption of these regulations, the
Register of Deeds shall not thereafter file or record a plat of a subdivision
located within the subdivision jurisdiction area of Chimney Rock Village until
the plat has been approved by the Planning Board. Without approval of the
Planning Board, the filing or recording of a subdivision plat shall be null and
void. The Clerk of Superior Court of Rutherford County shall not order or
direct the recordings of a plat where the recording would be in conflict with
these regulations.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 706) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.047 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Conservation Development District. An area of land that has been zoned
as a Conservation Development District Overlay zone as set forth in the Chimney
Rock Village Zoning Ordinance, is considered a subdivision and is thus subject
to these regulations. All requirements of this subdivision ordinance are
applicable to conservation development district subdivisions, unless
specifically exempted by this section. The following standards and review
procedures shall apply to conservation development district subdivisions.
   (B)   Purpose. Conservation development district overlay zoned subdivisions
under these provisions are intended to promote imaginative, well-designed
subdivisions which preserve common open areas in return for reduced individual
lot area, and which encourage a more cost effective approach to housing
development.
   (C)   Density. A conservation development district zoned subdivision shall
not contain a greater number of lots than would be allowed in a conventional
subdivision allowed for that subdivision were it to be developed without a
conservation development district overlay.
   (D)   Utilities. In any proposed conservation development district zoned
overlay subdivision, each proposed building lot shall be provided with safe and
adequate water and sewerage service. Approval for each lot in the proposed
subdivision shall be provided in writing from the local and/or state agencies
required to approve the proposed systems or facilities.
   (E)   Minimum lot area. Within a conservation development district overlay
zoned subdivision, the area of individual lots designed for building sites, as
determined in §
154.086, may be reduced provided:
      (1)   Utilities can be provided in accordance with requirements in this
chapter; and
      (2)   Common areas for conservation development or open space are
provided within the conservation development district overlay zoned subdivision
in an amount at least equivalent to the total reduction in lot sizes. In no
case shall the common area be less than 50% of the total conservation
development district acreage.
   (F)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   For conservation development district overlay zoned subdivisions,
the Planning Board may allow the reduction of the minimum yard requirements as
set forth in the Zoning Regulations.
      (2)   Yards abutting the perimeter of the subdivision boundaries shall
have a minimum depth of 50 feet in which no buildings or related structures
shall be constructed.
   (G)   Lot width and depth. There are no minimum lot width or depth
requirements in a conservation development district overlay zoned subdivision.
   (H)   Common areas. Common areas are to be designated in the conservation
development district overlay zoned subdivision for the purpose of providing
common open space and related uses for the common areas retained by the lot
owners.
   (I)   Ownership and maintenance of common areas and facilities retained by
the lot owners. All common areas and facilities, including but not limited to,
land, structures and facilities to be held and used in common by the lot owners
shall be conveyed to an association of the owners of the lots. Within the
conveyance, provisions for maintenance and repair of the land and facilities
retained by the lot owners shall be stipulated. The conveyance shall also
provide mandatory membership of all present and future lot owners and shall
also provide for a levy against all lot owners within the development for the
maintenance and repair of common areas and facilities retained by the lot
owners. All such conveyance and covenants shall be stipulated. All such
conveyance and covenants shall be made a part of the subdivision review process
and shall be approved as to form and content by the Village Attorney.
   (J)   Plat requirements. In addition to the procedure and information
required in §§
154.040 et seq., the preliminary and final plats shall also require the
following:
      (1)   The term “Conservation Development District Subdivision” shall be
placed in the title block.
      (2)   Designation on the plat for any common areas to be retained by the
lot owners and specific descriptions for their proposed use.
      (3)   Designation of all streets, facilities and utilities which are to
be owned and maintained in common by the lot owners.
      (4)   The size of each lot in square feet shall be shown on the final
plat. The size of all common areas and conservation areas in square feet or
acres shall be designated on the plat.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 707) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005;
Am. Ord. passed 10-16-2007)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.060 CONFORMITY TO EXISTING MAPS OR PLANS.
   The location and width of all proposed streets shall be in conformity with
official plans and maps of Chimney Rock Village, and with existing or amended
plans of the Planning Board.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 800) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
§ 154.061 CONTINUATION OF ADJOINING STREET SYSTEM.
   The proposed street layout shall be coordinated with the street system of
the surrounding area. Where possible, existing principal streets shall be
extended.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 801) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
§ 154.062 LARGE TRACTS OR PARCELS.
   Where land is subdivided into larger parcels than ordinary building lots,
the parcels shall be arranged so as to allow for the opening of future streets
and logical further re-subdivision.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 802) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
§ 154.063 STREET NAMES.
   Proposed streets, which are obviously in alignment with existing streets,
shall bear the assigned name of the existing streets. In no case shall the name
of the proposed street duplicate or be phonetically similar to existing street
names, irrespective of the use of the suffix street, avenue, boulevard, drive,
place, court, and the like.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 803) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
§ 154.064 SURVEYING AND PLACEMENT OF MONUMENTS.
   “Standards of Practice of Land Surveying in North Carolina”, as adopted and
hereafter amended by the North Carolina Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors, under provisions of G.S. 89C-1 through 89C-28,
shall apply when conducting surveys.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 804) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
§ 154.065 CONTOUR MAP.
   A contour map shall be provided if requested by the Planning Board. The
contour interval required shall depend upon topographic and drainage
characteristics and shall be specified by the Planning Board.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 805) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
§ 154.066 AIR QUALITY.
   As authorized under G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 21, all subdivisions with more than
500 units at a density of more than 7,680 persons per square mile (12 persons/
acre) shall comply with air quality guidelines set out by the Division of
Environmental Management of the North Carolina Department of Environment,
Health and Natural Resources.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 806) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
§ 154.067 ACCESS TO LOT.
   (A)   When a proposed subdivision is not adjacent to a publicly dedicated
road, the subdivider must provide adequate assurance that the subdivision will
have safe and adequate access to the satisfaction of the Planning Board. Safe
and adequate access shall mean a publicly accessible roadway area that has a
minimum right-of-way width of 45 feet and shall meet or exceed all provisions
of §
154.081, which includes §
154.081(B) and §
154.082(C).
   (B)   The provision of a roadway area that has a right-of-way width that is
less than required above shall be considered a “private driveway”, as defined
in §
154.005.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 807) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005; Am. Ord. passed 10-17-2006)
IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED AND MINIMUM STANDARDS OF DESIGN
§ 154.080 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   General. Where land to be subdivided is found by the Planning Board to
be subject to the conditions of flooding, improper drainage, severe erosion,
and slides, or to have other characteristics that pose an ascertainable danger
to health, safety or property, the subdivider shall take measures necessary to
correct the conditions and to eliminate the dangers. Due consideration shall be
given to preserving natural features, such as trees, ponds, streams, rivers,
lakes, and for any historical sites that are of value not only to the
subdivision but to the village as well.
   (B)   Geotechniical study requirement and review. The subdivider of all
parcels of land 10 acres or greater in size shall present a geotechnical study
of the property, prepared by a professional geotechnical engineer and a
professional geologist, that addresses the concerns noted above. The study
shall be submitted to the village for review a minimum of 30 days prior to a
request for any action by the village. The village may require that such study
be reviewed by the village's outside consultant. In such event, the subdivider
shall deposit with the village as a deposit an amount of funds estimated by the
outside consultant as the cost of outside review, plus 10% as administrative
costs. Upon receipt of the funds, the village will commence the outside review.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 900) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005;
Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 154.081 STREETS AND ROADS.
   (A)   Access and requirements. All lots to be platted shall have access to a
street, and all proposed streets shall be installed, in accordance with the
requirements below, prior to final plat approval unless otherwise permitted
pursuant to §
154.044 for all subdivisions permitted pursuant to §
154.044, and for all subdivisions containing public or private streets, the
subdivider shall meet the requirements of G.S. § 136-102.6.
   (B)   Public streets. All subdivision streets and roads shall be designed
and constructed in accordance with the requirements set forth by the North
Carolina Department of Transportation, Division of Highways' Subdivision Roads,
Minimum Construction Standards, dated May, 1983, or as hereafter amended. Plans
for all public streets in subdivisions within the jurisdiction of this chapter
shall be reviewed by the Department of Transportation and a recommendation
provided to the Planning Board indicating whether the proposed street plans
meet the street requirements as specified in this section prior to preliminary
plat approval.
   (C)   Private streets. All private subdivision streets and roads shall meet
the following minimum construction standards:
      (1)   Right-of-way dedication shall be the same as for public streets.
Private streets are presently established as a minimum 45 feet right-of-way.
      (2)   Streets shall have a minimum travel width of 16 feet all weather
surface with 2 feet shoulders.
      (3)   Streets shall have a minimum of 8 inches of aggregated base course
(ABC) No. 7 compacted in accordance with NCDOT Minimum Construction Standards.
Graveled surface streets are permitted only by a specific variance granted by
the Chimney Rock Village Council at a public hearing at a scheduled or special
meeting held for that purpose.
      (4)   Steep grades can affect the safety and the difficulty of operating
vehicles and create potential erosion of roadways and ditches. To avoid
environmental impact, streets should, where possible, be constructed along the
contour of the land.
         (a)   1.   Maximum street grade shall not exceed 15 % for the
following:
               a.   Dead end roads less than 2,500 lineal feet in length.
               b.   Loop roads less than 2,500 lineal feet in length.
               c.   Cul-de-sacs.
            2.   Provided, however, maximum street grade may exceed 15% up to a
maximum of 18% grade after a specific report prepared by the Chimney Rock
Village Zoning Administrator after receiving comments from the Fire Chief of
the Chimney Rock Volunteer Fire Department or his or her designee, the Lake
Lure Fire Coordinator, the Rutherford County Fire Marshal; and the approval of
a specific variance by the Chimney Rock Village Planning Board. The portion of
the street where the grade would exceed 15% shall not exceed a distance of 500
feet.
         (b)   1.   Maximum street grade shall not exceed 12% for the
following:
               a.   Dead end roads more than 2,500 lineal feet in length.
               b.    Loop roads more than 2,500 lineal feet in length.
               c.   Residential collector roads.
               d.   Off-site connection roads between subdivision roads and the
state thoroughfare system.
            2.   Provided, however, maximum street grade may exceed 12% up to a
maximum of 15% grade after a specific report prepared by the Chimney Rock
Village Zoning Administrator after receiving comments from the Fire Chief of
the Chimney Rock Volunteer Fire Department or his or her designee, the Lake
Lure Fire Coordinator, the Rutherford County Fire Marshal; and the approval of
a specific variance by the Chimney Rock Village Planning Board. The portion of
the street where the grade would exceed 12% shall not exceed a distance of 500
feet.
         (c)   All subdivision streets and roads shall be designed and
constructed in accordance with any additional applicable requirements set forth
in the NC Department of Transportation, Division of Highways' "Subdivision
Roads, Minimum Construction Standards," dated January 2000, or as hereafter
amended.
      (5)   Cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum all weather surface radius of 35
feet and shall have a minimum right-of-way radius of 50 feet. The subdivider
shall submit a signed statement from a registered engineer or registered
surveyor indicating that the streets have been constructed in accordance with
the minimum standards. The statement shall be submitted prior to final plat
approval, except that if a financial security guarantee for the streets is
posted in accordance with §
154.044(B) of this chapter, then the statement shall be submitted prior to the
release of the security.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 901) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 9-3-1996;
Am. Ord. passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-23-2005; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005; Am. Ord. passed 8-18-2009)
§ 154.082 WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat subdivision. The preliminary subdivision plat must be
accompanied by satisfactory evidence as to the proposed method and system of
water supply and sanitary sewage collection and disposal. The installation of
all the systems (except for individual systems, wells and septic tanks) shall
be required prior to final plat approval unless otherwise permitted pursuant to
§
154.044.
   (B)   Public systems.
      (1)   Public water systems. Plans and specifications for a new public
water supply system (refer to the definition of PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM in §
154.005 of this chapter) shall be prepared by an engineer licensed to practice
in North Carolina and shall be approved by the Division of Health Services of
the North Carolina Department of Human Resources prior to construction of the
system. When the proposed system is to be connected to an existing system,
approval of the project must also be obtained from the owner of the existing
system prior to construction, and the system shall be constructed according to
the specifications and standards of the existing system. A letter of approval
of the system plans and specifications from the North Carolina Department of
Human Resources shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. When applicable,
a letter of approval from the owner of the existing system to which an inter-
connection is proposed shall also be submitted with the preliminary plat.
      (2)   Public sewer systems. Plans and specifications for a new public
sewer system specifications for a new public sewer system of expansion of an
existing public sewer system (refer to the definition of PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM in
§ 154.005 of this chapter) shall be prepared by an engineer licensed to
practice in North Carolina and shall be approved by the North Carolina
Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources prior to construction
of the system. When the proposed system is to be connected to an existing
system, approval of the project must also be obtained from the owner of the
existing system prior to construction, and the system shall be constructed
according to the specifications and standards of the existing system. A letter
of approval of the system plans and specifications from the North Carolina
Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources shall be submitted with
the preliminary plat. When applicable, a letter of approval from the owner of
the existing system to which an inter-connection is proposed shall be submitted
with the preliminary plat.
   (C)   Individual systems. Where public water and/or sewer is not available
for each lot in the subdivision, the developer shall provide certification that
the installed or proposed individual system in each lot fully meets the
requirements of the Rutherford County Health Department. In the alternative,
the developer shall certify on the final plat that the subdivider will meet all
requirements of §
154.044(B)(4) of the chapter if prior approval of the Rutherford County Health
Department is not sought or received as to each lot.
   (D)   Fire hydrants. Where a water line 6 inches or greater in diameter is
required in a public system, and the system has been designed and approved by
the Division of Health Services of the North Carolina Department of Human
Resources to provide fire protection, fire hydrants shall be installed on the
line. The hydrants shall be spaced so that coverage to all buildings sites
along the line may be provided with not more than 500 feet of hose, and shall
be located to facilitate access, hose laying and drainage.
   (E)   Water lines.
      (1)   All contractors must be approved by the Village Council, which
approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
      (2)   The size and material of water lines to be installed will be
determined by the Mayor, Village Clerk, and Consulting Engineer.
      (3)   The subdivider will be responsible for all costs of water pipe,
fittings, fire hydrants, installation and inspection. All fittings and fire
hydrants must be approved by the village for installation. Where a water line 6
inches or greater in diameter is required in a public system, and the system
has been designed and approved by the Division of Health Services of the North
Carolina Department of Human Resources to provide fire protection, fire
hydrants shall be installed on the line. The hydrants shall be spaced so that
coverage to all building sites along the line may be provided with not more
than 500 feet of hose, and shall be located to facilitate access, hose laying
and drainage. The developer or his or her contractor shall contact the Fire
Chief so that he or she may inspect fire hydrants during and after
installation.
      (4)   If the water system is to be connected to the village water system,
then when all water line installation has been completed and water connection
fees paid, the Village's Water Department or its designee will make the water
connections and set water meters on each of the building lots.
      (5)   Main water line to be installed 16 feet from center of the road or
5 feet from the edge of pavement, or the other distances approved by the
village and shall include a connector line to serve each building lot,
extending across the road where needed, prior to paving the road.
      (6)   The contractor will be responsible for material and workmanship for
a period of 12 months from the date accepted by the village.
      (7)   Water lines will not be extended until permits for the extensions
have been obtained in order to comply with state law.
      (8)   No work shall be covered up before being inspected by the village's
representative.
      (9)   Minimum cover on water lines shall be 36 inches or as otherwise
required by the village.
      (10)   Compaction shall be approved by the village's representative.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 902) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 8-23-2005; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.083 SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   In order to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation pollution of streams,
springs, flat water bodies or other drainage networks, and when there are plans
for a land disturbing activity of 1 acre or more, the subdivider shall show
proof with the preliminary plat that an erosion and sedimentation control plan
has been submitted to and approved by the state agency having jurisdiction (the
Division of Land Resources of the Department of Environment, Health and Natural
Resources as of the date of adoption of this chapter) in accordance with the
North Carolina Administrative Code Title 15, as adopted by the North Carolina
Sedimentation Commission, January 11, 1978, as amended.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 903) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.084 BLOCKS.
   The maximum and minimum length and width of blocks shall be as follows:
   (A)   Length. Block length shall not exceed 1,500 feet nor be less than 400
feet. Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian cross-walk at
least 10 feet in width may be required.
   (B)   Width. Blocks shall have sufficient width to allow 2 tiers of lots of
minimum depth. Blocks may be 1 lot in depth where single tier lots are required
to separate residential development from through vehicular traffic or non-
residential uses.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 904) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.085 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks, if constructed, shall be within the street right-of-way and shall
be constructed to a minimum width of 4 feet and shall consist of a minimum
thickness of 4 inches of reinforced concrete.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 905) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.086 LOTS.
   All lots shall conform to the requirements of the Chimney Rock Village Code
of Ordinances.
   (A)   Minimum lot area. All lots shall be measured as net lot area. In
calculating lot area, the street right-of-way shall not be included, nor shall
a lot be divided by a street right-of-way or street easement, nor include the
water area of a lake, river or other water body. The required minimum lot area
shall not include a driveway easement to an adjacent property. The lot area may
be increased on the recommendation of the Rutherford County Health Department.
   (B)   Width and depth. All lots shall conform to the requirements of the
Chimney Rock Village Code of Ordinances and requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance. In addition, all lots to be platted shall have a minimum width at
the street right-of-way line of 75 feet, and corner lots shall have an extra
width of 100 feet to permit adequate setback from side streets. Lots fronting
cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum lot width of 35 feet. All lots shall have a
minimum depth of 150 feet.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 906) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 11-16-2004;
Am. Ord. passed 8-23-2005; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-20-
2006)
§ 154.087 BUILDING SETBACK LINES.
   All lots shall conform to the requirements of the Chimney Rock Village Code
of Ordinances.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 907) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
§ 154.088 EASEMENTS.
   Utility and other easements shall be provided as follows:
   (A)   Utility easements centered on rear or side lot lines shall be provided
where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, and shall be at least 5 feet in
width.
   (B)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the watercourse, and
the further width or construction, or both, as may be adequate for the purpose
of maintaining adequate drainage. Parallel streets of parkways may be required
in connection therewith.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 908) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2005)
LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.105 ABROGATION.
   This chapter shall neither repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, nor interfere
with any existing subdivisions, the plats of which are properly recorded in the
Office of the Register of Deeds prior to the effective date of this chapter,
nor with existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions, agreements or
permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law prior to the effective
date of this chapter.
(2002 Code, Art. XII, § 1202) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   After the effective date of this chapter, any person who, being the owner or
agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial jurisdiction of
this chapter, thereafter subdivides his or her land in violation of this
chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to, exhibition of, or an other
use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land before the plat has been
properly approved under the terms of this chapter and recorded in the office of
the Rutherford County Register of Deeds shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The
description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other document
used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not exempt the
transaction from this penalty. Chimney Rock Village, through its attorney or
other official designated by the Village Council, may enjoin any illegal
subdivision, transfer, or sale of land by action for injunction. Further,
violators of this chapter shall be subject, upon conviction, to a fine up to a
maximum of $500 and/or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(2002 Code, Art. XIII, § 1200) (Ord. passed 4-1-1985; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-
2005)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Authority and enactment
   
155.002   Jurisdiction
   
155.003   Purpose and intent
   
155.004   Word interpretation
   
155.005   Definitions
   
155.006   Off-street parking and loading
   
155.007   Zoning map
   
155.008   Zoning classification list
   
155.009   Posting of property to be re-zoned
   
155.010   Regulation in progress
   
155.011   Prerequisite to the issuance of a new permit
   
155.012   Approval of survey(s) and plat(s)
Division of Village
   
155.025   Division of village into districts
   
155.026   Classes and symbols
   
155.027   Establishment of zoning map
   
155.028   Water areas
   
155.029   Streets
   
155.030   Conflicting regulations
   
155.031   Scope
   
155.032   Setback encroachment
   
155.033   Accessory uses and structures
   
155.034   Public utilities
   
155.035   Village uses
   
155.036   Existing use
Residential Districts
   
155.050   Residential districts
   
155.051   Purpose of the LR Low Residential District
   
155.052   Uses permitted; minimum lot area, coverage and width
   
155.053   Purpose of the MR Medium Residential District
   
155.054   Maximum residential density permitted
   
155.055   Uses permitted
   
155.056   Uses prohibited
   
155.057   RCDDO Residential Conservation Development District Overlay
Business Districts
   
155.070   Commercial Business Districts
   
155.071   Purpose of Tourist Business District
   
155.072   Uses permitted in the TB Tourist Business District
   
155.073   Limitations on uses in the TB Tourist Business District
   
155.074   Purpose of the CB Community Business District
   
155.075   Uses permitted in the CB Community Business District
   
155.076   Limitations on uses in the CB Community Business District
   
155.077   Community Facilities District
   
155.078   Purpose of CF Community Facility District
   
155.079   Uses permitted
Miscellaneous Districts
   
155.095   Medical Facilities District
   
155.096   HZ Holding Zone District
   
155.097   CG Campground Vehicle District
Conditional Uses
   
155.115   Purpose
   
155.116   Development plan/site plan requirements
   
155.117   Conditional use standards
Administration, Enforcement, Appeals
   
155.130   Process and duties of administration
   
155.131   Zoning Administrator
   
155.132   Certificate of zoning compliance required
   
155.133   Application for zoning compliance certificate
   
155.134   Building permit required
   
155.135   Certificate of occupancy required
   
155.136   Compliance
   
155.137   Appeal from the Zoning Administrator
Board of Adjustment
   
155.150   Establishment of Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
155.151   [Reserved]
   
155.152   Powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment
   
155.153   Appeals from Board of Adjustment
   
155.154   Fees for variances, conditional uses and appeals
General Regulations
   
155.170   Zoning effects every building and use
   
155.171   Nonconforming uses
   
155.172   Removal of dangerous signs
   
155.173   Adult establishments
   
155.174   Setbacks required
   
155.175   Commercial use of trailers and mobile homes
Amendments
   
155.190   Amendments
   
155.191   Initiation of amendments
   
155.192   Application
   
155.193   Application fee
   
155.194   Planning Board action
   
155.195   Public hearing
   
155.196   Decision
Special Uses
   
155.215   General applicability
   
155.216   Application procedure
   
155.217   Additional conditions as to use
   
155.218   Sanctions
   
155.219   Expiration of special use permits
 
   
155.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Well head protection, see §§
50.40 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Village Council of Chimney Rock, North Carolina, in pursuance of the
authority granted by G.S. Art. 19, Ch. 160A, Part 3, hereby ordains and enacts
into law the following divisions and sections for the purpose of promoting the
health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
(2002 Code, Art. I, § 92.00.00) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.002 JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all land within the
corporate limits of Chimney Rock Village, North Carolina, as established on the
map entitled “Official Zoning Map, Chimney Rock Village”.
(2002 Code, Art. I, § 92.00.00) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   These regulations are enacted to protect and improve the public health,
safety, order, appearance and general welfare of the village through the
adoption of minimum regulations controlling the use of land, buildings and
other structures, and the improvements thereon.
(2002 Code, Art. I, § 92.00.00) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.004 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Meaning. Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this
chapter have their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, certain words or terms used herein are defined as follows.
   (B)   Word interpretation. Words used in the present tense include the
future tense. Words used in the singular include the plural, and words used in
the plural include the singular.
      (1)   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Chimney Rock Village Board of Adjustment,
and shall include both regular and alternate members.
      (2)   BUILDING. The word STRUCTURE.
      (3)   LOT.  The words PLOT or PARCEL.
      (4)   MAY.  Is permissive.
      (5)   ORDINANCE. The Zoning Ordinance of Chimney Rock Village.
      (6)   PERSON or APPLICANT.  A firm, association, organization,
partnership, corporation, company, trust, an individual or governmental unit.
      (7)   PLANNING BOARD.  The Chimney Rock Village Planning Board.
      (8)   SHALL. Is mandatory.
      (9)   STREET.  The words ROAD and HIGHWAY.
      (10)   USED or OCCUPIED. The words INTENDED, ARRANGED or DESIGNED TO BE
USED or OCCUPIED.
      (11)   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Chimney Rock Village Council.
      (12)   ZONING MAP or CHIMNEY ROCK VILLAGE ZONING MAP. The Official Zoning
Map of Chimney Rock Village.
(2002 Code, Art. I, § 92.00.00) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate building or structure which is devoted to
an accessory use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental to, or is subordinate to main
use of the premises.
   APARTMENT. A part of a building consisting of a room or rooms intended,
designed or used as a residence by an individual or a single-family.
   BAR. Any place devoted to the drinking of malt, vinous or other alcoholic
beverages.
   BASEMENT. A building story which is partly or wholly underground with more
than ½ its height below the average level of the adjoining ground.
   BED AND BREAKFAST/INN/TOURIST HOME. A use consisting of a building designed
and used as a single-family detached dwelling, consisting of a single-family
dwelling unit together with the rental of 1 or more dwelling rooms on a short
term basis, usually by the night to tourists or vacationers. The total stay is
not normally longer than several nights, and where the provision of meals, if
provided at all, is limited to the breakfast meal of overnight guests; and
where the bed and breakfast/tourist home operation is conducted by an owner or
operator of the facility who physically resides on the premises. A bed and
breakfast/tourist home is not a boarding house, lodging house or rooming house.
   BOARDING HOUSE, LODGING HOUSE, ROOMING HOUSE.  Any dwelling where persons
are housed or lodged for hire, with or without meals, where persons desiring
temporary residence may be provided with sleeping, sanitary or cooking
facilities. A room for hire may be furnished or unfurnished.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either permanent or temporary, having a roof and
used or built for shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The building height shall be the vertical distance between
the highest point of any part of a building and the point of measurement as set
forth in the Zoning Code.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building used for the same purpose as the principal
use of the lot.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  A line delineating the minimum allowable distance
between the property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or
other structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided. Whenever the
front, side or rear portions of a lot abut a street right-of way, setback lines
shall be measured from the right-of-way line.
   CAMPGROUND. A recreational facility that provides accommodations for
tenters, travel trailers, recreational vehicles and other similar units.
   CLUB PRIVATE. Associations and organizations of a fraternal or social
character not operated or maintained for profit. The term shall not include
bars or restaurants or other institutions operated for profit.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is permitted in specified zoning districts only
after review by the Board of Adjustment and found to meet specific conditions
and procedures as set forth in this chapter to maintain the safety and general
welfare and orderly development of the community.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE AREA. That portion of a restaurant or bar other than the
kitchen, storage areas, bar service area, or utility purposes.
   DWELLING. A house, apartment, or building designed or used primarily for
human habitation, but not including boarding house, lodging house, rooming
house, hotel, motel or other structures for transient residents.
   DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A dwelling containing 3 or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing 1 dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, 2-FAMILY. A dwelling containing 2 dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms providing complete living facilities for 1
family, including equipment for cooking or provisions for the same, including a
room or rooms for living, sleeping and eating.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of a strip of land for specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   FAMILY. A single individual, or a collective body of persons living together
on the premises as a separate housekeeping unit in a domestic relationship
based on birth, marriage or other domestic bond as distinguished from a group
occupying a boarding house, lodging house, rooming house, club, fraternity or
sorority house.
   FLOOR AREA. The total gross floor area within interior of the external
perimeter walls.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any incidental use conducted on the property must be
conducted on and within the dwelling unit and carried on by persons residing in
the dwelling unit, which use is incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling for residential purposes. It shall include any profession or
occupation conducted entirely within a dwelling by an immediate family member
or an occupant residing on the premises. No merchandise shall be sold or
displayed on the premises, and no mechanical equipment shall be installed which
is not normally used for domestic or professional purposes. No more than 15% of
the total floor space of the dwelling may be used for a home occupation, and
only 1 home occupation shall be permitted in 1 dwelling unit. No exterior
evidence of the presence of a home occupation shall be allowed other than an
exterior sign no larger than 12 inches by 18 inches attached to the exterior of
the dwelling. One off-street parking space shall be required in addition to 2
parking spaces required for the dwelling unit.
   HOTEL. A building in which sleeping accommodations are offered to the public
and access to the sleeping rooms is primarily through an inside lobby.
   LONG TERM RENTAL. A rental period of 90 days or longer.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory assembled portable housing unit, or a portion
thereof, built on a chassis and intended for use as a dwelling unit, and is not
constructed in accordance with the standards of the North Carolina Uniform
Residential Building Code for 1 and 2-family dwellings. A MANUFACTURED HOME is
designed to be transported on its own chassis and has a measurement of 40 feet
or more in length and 8 feet or more in width. A MANUFACTURED HOME shall be
construed to remain a manufactured home whether or not wheels, axles, hitches,
or other appurtenances of mobility are removed, and regardless of the nature of
the foundation provided. All vehicles which are designated mobile homes by the
Uniform Standards Code for Mobile Homes Act shall be considered manufactured
homes. A MANUFACTURED HOME shall not be construed to be a travel trailer or
other form of recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS A. A manufactured home constructed after July 1,
1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction and that satisfies the following additional criteria:
      (1)   The manufactured home has a length of not exceeding 4 times its
width, with length measured along the longest axis and width measured at the
narrowest part of the other axis;
      (2)   The pitch of the roof of the manufactured home has a minimum
vertical rise of 2-2/10 feet for each 12 feet of horizontal run (2.2 feet and
12 feet) and the roof is finished with a type of shingle that is commonly used
in standard residential construction;
      (3)   All roof structures shall provide an eave projection of no less
than 6 inches, which may include a gutter;
      (4)   The exterior siding consists predominantly of vinyl or aluminum
horizontal lap siding (whose reflectivity does not exceed that of gloss white
paint), wood, or hardboard, comparable in composition, appearance and
durability to the exterior siding commonly used in standard residential
construction;
      (5)   The manufactured home is set up in accordance with the standards
set by the North Carolina Department of Insurance and a continuous, permanent
masonry foundation or masonry curtain wall, unpierced except for required
ventilation and access, is installed under the perimeter of the manufactured
home;
      (6)   Stairs, porches, entrance platforms, ramps and other means of
entrance and exit to and from the home shall be installed or constructed in
accordance with the standards set by the North Carolina Department of
Insurance, attached firmly to the primary structure and anchored securely to
the ground; and
      (7)   The moving hitch, wheels and axles, and transporting lights have
been removed. It is the intent of these criteria to insure that a Class A
Manufactured Home, when installed, shall have substantially the appearance of
an on-site, conventionally built, single-family dwelling.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS B. A manufactured home constructed after July 1,
1976 that meets or exceeds the construction standards promulgated by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development that were in effect at the time of
construction, and that meet or exceed criteria (5),(6) and (7) for Class A
homes above.
   MANUFACTURED HOME, CLASS C. Any manufactured home that does not meet the
definitional criteria of a Class A or Class B Manufactured Home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any premises where 2 or more manufactured homes are
parked for living and sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for
the purpose of supplying to the public parking space for 2 or more manufactured
homes for living and sleeping purposes, and which include any buildings,
structures, vehicles or enclosures used or intended for use as part of the
manufactured home park.
   MODULAR HOUSING. A form of manufactured housing that meets the construction
standards of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building Codes for 1 and 2-
family dwellings regardless of how the unit or its components are transported
to the site.
   MOTEL. A building in which sleeping accommodations are offered to the public
and access to the sleeping rooms is primarily through from the exterior of the
building and parking facilities are near the guests quarters.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure existing at the effective date of this
chapter, or amendments thereto, which does not conform to all of the
regulations applicable to the district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. The use of land or a structure existing at the effective
date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, for any purpose not permitted for
a new use in the district in which the land is located.
   PACKAGE STORE. A place where alcoholic beverages are sold in containers for
consumption off the premises.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A development where more than 1 principal
building is proposed to be constructed on a single tract, or any multifamily
residential complex with 9 or more dwelling units, or any building with a gross
floor area of 25,000 square feet or more.
   PLOT/LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building or a use. A plot may
be a single lot, composed of several lots, or a portion of a lot.
   RENTAL. The arranging, contracting or advertising for, or the making
available of, the use of a dwelling unit for a finite period of time for any
legal consideration. The existence of a financial, business, barter, or other
arrangement between the owner of a dwelling and temporary occupant(s)
constitutes prima facie evidence of a rental regardless of the legal
consideration. Renting does not include the making available of the use of a
dwelling unit to family members and/or friends unless any sort of legal
consideration is provided to the owner.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and beverages are primarily ordered
from a menu, prepared and served for pay for consumption on the premises in a
completely enclosed room under the roof of the main structure or on an attached
patio or deck.
   RESTAURANT, FAST FOOD. An establishment where food and beverages are
primarily served in disposable containers at a take-out counter or window,
whether or not there are seating facilities available on the premises.
   SCENIC NATURAL ATTRACTION. A unique natural scenic area developed for
commercial recreational purposes containing facilities and services oriented
toward scenic and outdoor recreational activities, while remaining compatible
with adjacent residential areas. Any development or use which would be
detrimental to the natural and ecological beauty of the district is prohibited.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance from a plot line and a building or
part of a building.
   SHORT TERM RENTAL/TRANSIENT RENTAL. A rental period of less than 90 days.
   STORY. A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor; or the space
between 2 floors.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground. STRUCTURE
shall not include incidental items such as mailboxes, wheel stops, walkways and
the like. The definition of STRUCTURE, however, shall include signs.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged,
occupied or utilized.
   VACATION RENTAL. The short term rental of a residential property located in
the LR Low Density Residential District for vacation, leisure, or recreation
purposes for fewer than 90 days by a person who has a place of permanent
residence to which he or she intends to return.
   VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance
where the variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing
to special conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the
actions of the applicant, a literal enforcement of this chapter would result in
unnecessary and undue hardship.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. An official or person designated by the Chimney Rock
Village Council charged with enforcing and administering this chapter.
(2002 Code, Art. I, § 92.00.01) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed - -;
Am. Ord. passed 6-22- 2000; Am. Ord. passed 7-18-2000; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-
2004; Am. Ord. passed 11-16-2004)
§ 155.006 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   Property located in a CB Community Business District.
      (1)   Every new commercial structure or new commercial use located in a
new commercial structure; erected or instituted after the effective date of
this chapter, located in a CB Community Business District, shall provide off-
street parking facilities in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for
the use of patrons, occupants, employees, guests, invitees or visitors.
      (2)   There are no parking requirements in the LR and MR Residential, TB
Tourist Business or CF Community Facility Districts, as these districts do not
have the intensity of use as in the CB Community Business District, due to such
factors as locations, densities, intensities, compactness, frequency of use and
the availability of other parking facilities or parking areas.
      (3)   Off-street automobile parking or storage space shall be provided on
every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established; or
provided that no parking space can be reasonably provided on the same lot, the
space shall be provided on any lot a substantial portion of which is within 500
feet of the use. The required parking space for any number of separate uses may
be combined in 1 lot, but the required space assigned to 1 use may not be
assigned to another use at the same time, except that ½ of the parking space
required for churches, theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be
at night or on Sundays may be assigned to a use which will be closed at night
or on Sundays. Each automobile parking space shall be provided with adequate
maneuvering space, shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or
alley; and shall be equal in number to at least the minimum requirements for
the specific use set forth below.
   (B)   Amount of off-street parking required. Off-street parking as required
by this chapter for new commercial structures or new commercial uses located
within new commercial structures erected after the effective date of this
chapter which are located in the CB Community Business District, shall be
provided and maintained on the basis of the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Hotels/motels/bed and breakfast/inns and tourist homes. One parking
space for each accommodation, plus 2 parking spaces for employees/owners. If,
in addition to sleeping rooms, there are other uses operated in conjunction
with, or as part of, the establishment, additional off-street parking spaces
shall be provided for the uses to the extent of 50% of the off-street parking
specified in this section for restaurants, bars and places of public assembly.
      (2)   Apartments, townhouses and similar residential uses. Two parking
spaces per dwelling unit
      (3)   Places of assembly having fixed seats. One parking space for every
3 seats.
      (4)   Places of public assembly without fixed seats. One parking space
for every 35 feet of gross floor area occupied by guests, customers, patrons,
members or other occupants.
      (5)   Private clubs. One parking space for every 200 square feet of gross
floor area.
      (6)   Business, professional, governmental offices. One parking space for
every 300 square feet of gross floor area.
      (7)   Restaurants and bars. One parking space for every 35 feet of gross
floor area in rooms for customer service. In addition, 1 parking space for
every 2 lineal feet of bar space shall be provided. Fast food restaurants shall
provide 1 space for every 40 square feet of gross floor area with a minimum of
25 spaces. Required parking for “open air seating” of a restaurant shall be
calculated at 50% of the above requirements. OPEN AIR SEATING shall be defined
as any seating area without a heating or cooling system, with or without a
roof.
      (8)   Retail stores, personal service shops. One parking space for every
300 square feet of gross floor area.
      (9)   Child care center, day nursery. One parking space for every 400
square feet of gross floor area.
      (10)   Convenience stores/grocery stores. One space for every 125 square
feet of gross floor area.
      (11)   Auto repair establishments. One space for every 125 square feet of
gross floor area.
      (12)   Auto service station with maintenance and repair services. Three
spaces for each service bay.
      (13)   Auto service station-self service. Four spaces minimum.
      (14)   Game rooms, amusement arcades. One space for every 200 square feet
of gross floor area.
The off-street parking requirements for any unspecified use shall be that which
is required for similar uses.
   (C)   Size. Each new parking space required pursuant to the provisions of
this section shall not be less than 9 feet in width and 18 feet in length. New
handicapped parking spaces shall be as required by state or federal law. New
parallel parking spaces shall not be less than 23 feet in length. New parking
aisles shall be of the width commensurate with the angle of the parking stalls.
All new parking spaces shall be so designed that no vehicle when parked shall
be closer than 5 feet of the pavement edge of the abutting roadway.
   (D)   Striping. All hard surfaced new parking spaces required pursuant to
the provisions of this section shall be divided with painted lines.
   (E)   Accessibility. Each new parking space required pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be accessible without driving over or through
another parking space unless that space is reserved and marked for use only by
owner or employee.
   (F)   Property located in a MF Medical Facility District. Every new
structure or new use located in a structure; erected or instituted, and located
in a MF Medical Facility District, shall provide off-street parking facilities
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for the use of patrons,
occupants, employees, guests, invitees or visitors.
   (G)   Amount of off-street parking required. Off-street parking required by
this chapter for new structures or new uses located in the MF Medical Facility
District, shall be provided and maintained on the basis of the following
minimum requirements:
      (1)   Medical offices/clinics; dental offices/clinics; medical/dental
laboratories; physical therapy treatment/massage; body art/tattoo. One parking
space for every 150 square feet of gross floor area with a minimum of 6 spaces
required.
      (2)   Apothecaries; stores for sale or rental medically related
equipment. One parking space for every 200 square feet of gross floor area.
      (3)   Residential care facilities. One and one-half parking spaces per
unit.
   (H)   Unspecified uses. The off-street parking requirements for any
unspecified use shall be that which is required for similar uses.
(2002 Code, Art. III, § 92.00.14) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 7-
15-2003)
§ 155.007 ZONING MAP.
   The Chimney Rock Village Zoning Map shall be included as part of this
chapter and shall be filed in the Chimney Rock Village Office and available for
public inspection.
(2002 Code, Attachment A) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.008 ZONING CLASSIFICATION LIST.
   The Chimney Rock Village Property Zoning Classification List shall be
included as part of this chapter and shall be filed in the Chimney Rock Village
Office and shall be available for public inspection.
(2002 Code, Attachment B) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.009 POSTING OF PROPERTY TO BE RE-ZONED.
   (A)   When a zoning map amendment is passed, a sign giving notice of the
public hearing(s) shall be prominently posted on the site proposed for re-
zoning on an adjacent traveled public street or highway right-of-way; or at an
alternate location as directed by the Zoning Administrator to provide maximum
visibility to the public.
   (B)   The sign shall include the time, date and location of the public
hearing, along with information about the re-zoning classification.
   (C)   The sign specifications shall be obtained from the office of the
Zoning Administrator and shall be the responsibility of the applicant for his
or her’s timely manufacture, timely erection and the maintenance of the sign
for a period of 21 days prior to the public hearing(s).
(Ord. passed 6-20-2006)
§ 155.010 REGULATION IN PROCESS.
   (A)   When a new regulation, a new ordinance; or a change in an existing
regulation or ordinance; is in process which affects the use of land which is
being considered upon an application submitted in accordance with an existing
regulation or ordinance, there shall be a hold on all actions that would permit
the use of land with respect to the area which is the subject of the new
regulation, new ordinance; or a change in an existing regulation or ordinance.
   (B)   The hold on any action permitting a use of land shall continue in
effect for a period from the date of the introduction of the subject regulation
or ordinance, and until the regulation or ordinance shall have been either
approved, amended, or disapproved, or a period of 6 months, whichever is
sooner; unless the issuance of the action permitting the use of land would be
in conformity with both the regulation existing at the time of the application
and the new or amended regulation which is the subject of the application.
(Ord. passed 5-16-2006)
§ 155.011 PREREQUISITE TO THE ISSUANCE OF A NEW PERMIT.
   (A)   No new permit or additional permit shall be issued on any real
property within the municipal limits if there is an outstanding un-rectified
violation of the Chimney Rock Village Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee, shall not issue,
without specific Village Council approval at a regularly scheduled or at a
special meeting, a zoning compliance permit, a land disturbance permit, or any
other permit that permits any development of property, permits the erection of
a sign, or permits any other action that requires issuance of a permit by
Chimney Rock Village.
(Ord. passed 2-15-2005)
§ 155.012 APPROVAL OF SURVEY(S) AND PLAT(S).
   (A)   All survey(s) and plat(s) shall be prepared, approved, and recorded
pursuant to the appropriate zoning ordinances whenever any creation, change,
update or alteration of any existing lot or plat or the subdivision of land
occurs within the defined jurisdiction of Chimney Rock Village. All surveys and
plats for the subdivision of land shall conform to the requirements of the
Chimney Rock Village zoning and other ordinances and shall be submitted in
accordance with the procedures and specifications established herein. No survey
or plat of a subdivision of land within the defined jurisdiction of Chimney
Rock Village shall be filed or recorded by the Rutherford County Register of
Deeds until it has been submitted to and given final approval as provided
herein and until the approval is entered on the face of the final plat by the
Zoning Administrator, or the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson of the Chimney
Rock Village Planning Board.
   (B)   All survey(s), plat(s) and subdivision updates, corrections or changes
must contain the following statement prior to recording with the Rutherford
County Register of Deeds beginning at the adoption of this section.
      I,                                     , Chimney Rock Village Zoning
Administrator do hereby certify that all applicable provisions of the Chimney
Rock Village Code of Ordinances have been met and this final survey and or plat
is hereby approved for recording at the Rutherford County Register of Deeds,
this the               day of                           , 20        .
                                                      
      Zoning Administrator
   (C)   If any survey or plat is filed with Rutherford County Register of
Deeds without approval by the Zoning Administrator, or the Chairperson or Vice
Chairperson of the Chimney Rock Village Planning Board, then Chimney Rock
Village may subsequently deny any further permits based off the prior
unapproved survey or plat.
(Ord. passed 9-17-2024)
DIVISION OF VILLAGE
§ 155.025 DIVISION OF VILLAGE INTO DISTRICTS.
    The village is divided into districts of the number, shape, area and of the
common unity that the rights and interests of all will be protected; and there
is hereby imposed upon the land and structures further regulations as are
necessary or appropriate to limit the location, use and occupancy of buildings,
structures and land to be used for commerce, residential, community facilities
or other goals as necessary and/or appropriate.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.02) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.026 CLASSES AND SYMBOLS.
    For purposes of this chapter, the village is hereby divided into the
following districts:
   (A)   Residential Districts.
      (1)   LR Low Residential District; and
      (2)   MR Medium Residential District.
   (B)   Commercial Business Districts.
      (1)   TB Tourist Business District; and
      (2)   CB Community Business District.
   (C)   Community Facilities District. CF Community Facility District.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.03) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.027 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING MAP.
    A zoning map entitled the "Official Zoning Map of Chimney Rock Village"
setting forth all approved use districts and their respective boundaries is
hereby made a part of this chapter and shall be maintained in the office of the
Zoning Administrator of Chimney Rock Village. This map shall be available for
inspection by interested persons during normal business hours of the Zoning
Administrator. It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator of Chimney Rock
Village to maintain the map and post any changes thereto as they may be made.
Each district shall be subject to the regulations stipulated in this chapter,
or amendments thereto.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.04) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.028 WATER AREAS.
    The water surface and the land under the water surface in the village not
otherwise zoned, are hereby placed in the same zoning district as the land
which they abut. Where the zoning district is different on opposite sides of
the water area, then the zoning district on each side shall extend to the
centerline or midpoint of the water area.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.05) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)   
§ 155.029 STREETS.
    The streets not otherwise zoned, are hereby placed in the same zoning
district as the land which they abut. Where the zoning district is different on
opposite sides of the street area, then the zoning district on each side shall
extend to the centerline or midpoint of the street area.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.06) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.030 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
    Wherever any provision of this chapter conflicts with requirements,
restrictions or limitations that are imposed or required by any other law or
resolution, then the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.07) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.031 SCOPE.
    No building or structure or part thereof shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered or maintained; and no existing use, new use or change of
use of any building, structure or land or part thereof shall be made or
continued except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.08) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.032 SETBACK ENCROACHMENT.
    Every part of every required setback shall be open and unobstructed from
the ground to the sky except as hereinafter provided or as otherwise permitted
in this chapter.
   (A)   Eaves, roof overhangs and gutters may not project over 3 feet into a
required setback.
   (B)   Awnings, canopies and marquees may not project over 5 feet into a
required setback with a minimum height of 8 feet at its lowest point.
   (C)   Stairways and balconies which are unroofed and unenclosed may not
project over 5 feet into a required side or rear setback, but not a required
front setback.
   (D)   Fences, walls and landscaping shall be permitted in side and rear
setbacks, and shall be permitted in front setbacks, only if in conformance with
the requirements of the parking setback ordinance, as may be amended from time
to time.
   (E)   Permitted projecting signs may not project over 5 feet into a required
setback with a minimum height of 8 feet at its lowest point.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.09) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.033 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
    In all districts, accessory buildings and structures, where permitted as
accessory to the main structure, shall comply with the restrictions for the
district in which they are located. No accessory building or structure shall be
located as to block fire and other emergency vehicles from reaching any portion
of the main structure.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.10) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.034 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
    Utilities necessary to the public health and convenience, such as electric
and telephone lines and related equipment; water and sewer mains, lift
stations; and water wells may be located in any district.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.11) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.035 VILLAGE USES.
    The provisions of this section are not intended and shall not be construed
to preclude the use of any property by the village in any governmental
capacity, function or purpose.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.12) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.036 EXISTING USE.
    Any lawful use of land or structure, excluding signs, existing on the
effective date of this chapter and which by the terms thereof has become a
nonconforming use is hereby declared not to be in violation at the effective
date of this chapter. Such a nonconforming use shall be subject to all of the
provisions of this chapter pertaining to its continuance, change and
discontinuance.
   (A)   No nonconforming use shall be extended to a portion of the building
not originally utilized for the use. No nonconforming use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside the building on the same plot not so used at the
effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   No structure utilized for a nonconforming use shall be enlarged,
extended, reconstructed or structurally altered unless the use is changed to 1
which complies with the provisions of this chapter; provided that necessary
repairs and maintenance may be carried out provided that the work does not
increase the cubical content of the building nor the floor area devoted to the
nonconforming use.
   (C)   If any nonconforming structure, or if any building in which there is a
nonconforming use is damaged by fire, flood, explosion, collapse, wind, war or
other catastrophe to such an extent that surpasses 50% of the replacement cost,
it shall not be again used or reconstructed except in conformance of the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (D)   There may be a change of tenancy or ownership of a nonconforming use
provided that there is no change in the specific character of the nonconforming
use.
   (E)   If for any reason a nonconforming use of land or a structure ceases,
or is discontinued for a period more than 180 days, the land or structure shall
not thereafter be used for the same or any other nonconforming use.
   (F)   The casual, temporary or illegal use of land or a structure shall not
be sufficient to establish the existence of a nonconforming use or create the
continuance of a use.
   (G)   If a conforming structure containing a conforming use at the effective
date of this chapter is later expanded through a newly constructed structural
addition, only the new structural addition shall be required to meet the
provisions of this chapter.
(2002 Code, Art. II, § 92.00.13) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 155.050 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)    LR Low Residential District; and
   (B)   MR Medium Residential District.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.15) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.051 PURPOSE OF THE LR LOW RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The LR Low Residential District is established to provide for
single-family residential dwelling units.
   (B)   Intent. The LR Low Residential District is established as a district
in which the principal use of land is for low density single-and 2-family
residential purposes. This district is further intended to protect existing low
density neighborhoods in Chimney Rock Village from incompatible land uses. It
is also the intent of this district to allow for certain types of
nonresidential community facilities that would not be detrimental to the
residential character of the district.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.16) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.052 USES PERMITTED; MINIMUM LOT AREA, COVERAGE AND WIDTH.
   (A)   Permitted use.
      (1)   The LR Low Residential District permits the use of a plot of land
for 2-family dwelling use only under the following conditions:
         (a)   An attached duplex dwelling; or
         (b)   A detached guest house or additional living quarters, not to
exceed 1,500 square feet in size and provided that all setbacks are followed,
and sufficient parking spaces are available.
      (2)   All living or guest attached or detached residential spaces,
whether for permanent living, guest housing or short or long-term rental must
be fully functional, with “fully functional” including facilities such as
bathrooms, kitchens, running water, heating, access to refuse and any other
utility required to be a self-sufficient living space.
      (3)   All dwelling units shall be under one single ownership.
      (4)   No division of the property less than the minimum lot size is
allowable.
   (B)   Residential. Residential single-and 2-family dwellings as specified in
division (A)(1) above, including modular housing and Class A Manufactured
Homes.
   (C)   Accessory. Accessory uses and structures.
   (D)   Agricultural. Agricultural uses including the sale of agricultural
products.
   (E)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted as conditional uses
subject to a review by the Planning Board and approval by the Village Council
that all applicable provisions of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast/inn/tourist home for short-term rentals;
         (a)   Short-term rental conditional use permitted properties must be
registered on an annual basis with the Village and the Rutherford County
Department of Revenue. The Village Council may set an annual registration fee
for continued operations, with usage dependent on said annual registration fee
for continued operations;
         (b)   However, if the bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/
hotels have more than 5 rooms for lodging, with a room being defined as an
enclosed space with a bed and a bathroom, then this section does not apply to
those bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/hotels;
         (c)   However, if the bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/
hotels have more than 5 rooms for lodging, with a room being defined as an
enclosed space with a bed and a bathroom, then this section does not apply to
those bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/hotels;
      (2)   Boarding house, lodging house, or rooming house for short-term
rentals;
         (a)   Short-term rental conditional use permitted properties must be
registered annually, with the Village and the Rutherford County Department of
Revenue. The Village Council may set an annual registration fee for continued
operations, with usage dependent on said annual registration fee for continued
operations;
         (b)   However, if the bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/
hotels have more than 5 rooms for lodging, with a room being defined as an
enclosed space with a bed and a bathroom, then this section does not apply to
those bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/hotels;
      (3)   Use of a dwelling unit, in whole or in parts, for vacation short-
term rental purposes;
      (4)   Class B manufactured homes;
      (5)   Houses of worship; and
      (6)   Short-term rental property (see division (E)(2) and (E)(3) named
above).
         (a)   Conditional use permits require review and recommendation to the
Village Council by the Village Planning Board for consideration.
         (b)   A public hearing in accordance with all legal requirements for
advertisement as apply is required by the Planning Board prior to making their
recommendation to the Village Council, and a public hearing and in accordance
with all legal requirements for advertisement as apply is also required by the
Village Council prior to making their decision on the issuance of any
conditional use permit.
         (c)   Any conditional use permit issued for a short-term rental
property that has been approved and issued less than 36 months (3 years) since
last approved, may be administratively reviewed and reissued to a new owner who
may continue to operate provided that the follow items remain in effect:
            1.   There is no change in the building or structural footprint and
no significant structural renovations to occur that would affect setbacks or
any village ordinances;
            2.   a.   Must provide a letter or documentation showing that water
and sewer services (or septic and well) are still operating properly;
                  b.   Septic system may be required to be pumped.
            3.   Adequate parking is provided based on the number of potential
guests;
               a.   The Village requires there be at least one parking space
on- site per 2 bedrooms unless rooms are rented separately. When bedrooms are
rented separately, there must be at least one parking space on site per
bedroom.
               b.   The property owner may make arrangements for off-site
parking, but these contracts must be in writing, naming the owner of the
property, the location of the property and the number of spaces allocated for
the short-term rental property’s use. The arrangement agreement(s) must
accompany the short-term rental conditional use permit and remain in effect
throughout the use of the property as a Conditional Use for Short-term Rental.
The Contract must have the following language:
                  The Landlord and Tenant intend this contract to apply to off-
site parking as provided in §
155.052 of the Chimney Rock Village ordinances. The life of this agreement
shall be until the Owner needs to file a new permit for their short-term rental
Conditional Unit in one year or less with Chimney Rock Village.
               c.   Upon the termination of any parking agreement for off-site
parking, the Short-term rental has 60 days to secure additional parking to meet
minimum parking requirements or the short-term rental Conditional Use Permit
terminates.
            4.   The Village limits overnight guest occupancy to no more than 2
adults per bedroom.
               a.   Children under 12 years of age are exempt from the adults
per bedroom limits.
               b.   There can be no more than twice the number of overnight
guests allowed per bedroom to attend special events held at a short-term
rental. (Example: 2 bedrooms = 4-over-night guests x 2 = maximum number of
event attendees, inclusive of the overnight guest would be 8.)
               c.   Children under 12 years of age are exempt from the maximum
count of attendees for special events at a short-term rental.
            5.   The Village limits the total number of bedrooms allowed in a
short- term residential single-family to 5 bedrooms or duplex to 6 bedrooms or
if on septic, to the maximum number of bedrooms allowed per current or most
recently issued County septic permit.
            6.   There are no documented adverse issues involving the property
as a rental, nor any significant issues affecting the structural integrity and
safety of the property.
            7.   The Zoning Administrator, Planning Board or Village Council
may ask for additional information from time to time as it may affect their
ability to make their decisions regarding the issuance of any short-term rental
permit.
         (d)   Any property being used as a short-term rental that changes
ownership after 3 years (36 months) from the most recent issuance of a
conditional use permit for short-term rentals by the Chimney Rock Village
Council will be required to reapply for a conditional use permit at time of
ownership transfer.
            1.   The new owner may continue to operate the short-term rental
for up to 90 days after taking ownership of property to reapply and secure an
approved and newly issued conditional use permit for short-term rental
operations at that property.
            2.   Should the new owner(s) not secure a conditional use permit
for short-term rental within this time period, all such operations must
immediately cease and cannot be resumed until such application has been
completed and reviewed by the Village Zoning Administrator and the Planning
Board and approved by the Village Council.
            3.   Penalties for non-compliance or short-term rentals operating
without a conditional use permit:
               a.   First time offender will be issued a warning and have 30
days to apply for a permit and submit all required documentation for
consideration to operate a short-term rental as a conditional use.
               b.   If a short-term rental continues operations for more than
30 days, without making application or securing approval from the Village
Council to operate a short-term rental by conditional use permit, they will be
fined $1,000.00 or (4 times the conditional use permit for short-term rental)
whichever is greater per month until application is prepared and submitted for
the Village Planning Board review and recommendation(s) and then to the Village
Council for final consideration.
               c.   The Village will follow the prescribed process for review,
including public hearings and consideration of the application within 90 days
of receipt of application for a conditional use permit- short-term rental. An
existing short-term rental may continue operations during the process, but
should the application be denied, the short-term rental must discontinue
operations within 90 days of notice of the denial of the application.
               d.   During the review process, the short-term rental may not
accept any new guest reservations.
               e.   A new application from the same owner for the same property
may not be resubmitted for 180 days after denial. The new application must
offer new evidence or a change in the property that would address any prior
reasons for the prior application denial. Upon the receipt of a new
application, with new information or evidence, the Village will follow the
regular procedure for review and consideration.
               f.   Should any property continue the use as a short-term rental
without a conditional use permit for short-term rentals after being given
notice of the violation, the Village can take such legal action as required to
end the use as a short-term rental. Such fines, court and legal cost and any
associated expenses incurred by the Village to enforce such conditional use
permits for short-term rentals will be pursued against the property ownre or
will be applied as a lien on the property as part of the legal action.
   (F)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Lots and public records. All lots placed of record in the public
records of Rutherford County prior to the effective date of this chapter shall
have minimum setbacks as shown below:
         (a)   Lots less than 3/4 acre in size:
            1.   Front: 10 feet;
            2.   Side: 7-1/2 feet;
            3.   Rear: 10 feet; and
            4.   Corner: 15 feet.
         (b)   Lots 3/4 acre and larger in size:
            1.   Front: 15 feet;
            2.   Side: 10 feet;
            3.   Rear: 15 feet; and
            4.   Corner: 20 feet.
      (2)   Placed of record. Property shall be considered placed of record
prior to the effective date of this chapter if:
            1.   The property is identified as a specific parcel shown on a
plat placed in the Rutherford County public records prior to the effective date
of this chapter; or
            2.   The property is identified as a specific parcel in a deed
recorded in the public records of Rutherford County prior to the effective date
of this chapter.
      (3)   Lots and records. All lots placed of record in the public records
of Rutherford County after the effective date of this chapter shall have
minimum setbacks as shown below:
         (a)   Front: 20 feet;
         (b)   Side: 15 feet;
         (c)   Rear: 20 feet; and
         (d)   Corner: 20 feet.
      (4)   Placed of record. Property shall be considered placed of record
after the effective date of this chapter if:
         (a)   The property is identified as a specific parcel shown on a plat
placed in the Rutherford County public records after the effective date of this
chapter; or
         (b)   The property is identified as a specific parcel in a deed
recorded in the public records of Rutherford County after the effective date of
this chapter.
      (5)   Administrative Variance. The Zoning Administrator may authorize
minor variances to the required setbacks as set forth in this chapter, where in
the Zoning Administrator's opinion, the variance is not contrary to the spirit
and intent of this chapter and would prevent hardships that may occur because
of unique and unusual shaped plots or because of special conditions that may
not pertain to other similar plots. However, in any case, the Zoning
Administrator may not grant an administrative variance greater than 20% of the
required setback and may not grant an administrative variance less than 28 feet
from U.S. Highway 64/74-A.
      (6)   Council Approved Variance. The Village Council may grant a variance
greater than the administrative variance of 20% but shall not to exceed 50% of
the allowable setback as is designated for this zoning district.
         (a)   Any setback variance request, greater than 20% shall be
submitted in writing, including survey showing the proposed variance, to the
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, Planning Board and/or Village
Council may request any additional documentation necessary for consideration of
the application. The variance request shall be completed within 90 days of the
completion of the application, including all required documentation.
         (b)   The application must state the hardship and how current setbacks
adversely affect the current zoning use of the property.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator will receive the initial application
and shall make a recommendation to the Planning Board for their review and
their recommendation to the Village Council. A public hearing is required prior
to the Planning Board's consideration and reporting their recommendation to the
Village Council.
         (d)   The Village Council shall consider the recommendations of the
Zoning Administrator and Planning Board and will conduct a public hearing prior
to their consideration of the variance request. The Village Council shall have
the final approval authority for granting any variance to zoning setbacks that
exceed 20% but shall not be a variance greater than 50% of this zoning
district's applicable setbacks.
      (7)   Setback measurements. Setback measurements from property lines that
extend into the Rocky Broad River, or into Lake Lure, or other body of water,
shall be measured from the waters normal edge. In any case, the minimum setback
shall be no less than 20 feet.
   (G)   Property located in the LR Low Residential District that has been
placed of record prior to October 15, 2002 shall have a minimum lot area as
determined by the Rutherford County Health Department. Property placed of
record after the effective date of this section may not be further re-
subdivided in parcels less than minimum lot area required in division (H)
below.
   (H)   Property located in the LR Low Residential District placed of record
after May 16, 2006 shall have a minimum lot area as per the following table,
unless additional land area is required as determined by the Rutherford County
Health Department.
      (1)   Slope not exceeding 9.9%. Property located adjacent to an existing
or designed roadway with a slope not exceeding 9.9%: 43,560 square feet-1 acre.
      (2)   Slope of 10% to 18%. Property located adjacent to an existing or
designed roadway with a slope of 10% to 18%: 87,120 feet-2 acres.
      (3)   Property affected. This section shall affect all property that has
not received preliminary plat approval from the Chimney Rock Village Planning
Board as of May 16, 2006.
   (I)   (1)   Lots located in the LR Low Residential District placed of record
after November 16, 2004 that are adjacent to the Rocky Broad River, shall have
a minimum lot width of 100 feet along the river's edge. All lots shall have a
minimum lot width of 50 feet abutting a street, except lots abutting cul-de-
sacs or turnarounds may have a lesser width as may be necessary.
      (2)   Lots located in the LR Low Residential District placed of record
after May 16, 2006 that are adjacent to the Rocky Broad River shall have a
minimum lot width of 125 feet along the river's edge. All lots shall have a
minimum lot width of 75 feet abutting a street, except lots abutting cul-de-
sacs or turnarounds may have a lesser width as may be necessary.
   (J)   Property located in the LR Low Residential District placed of record
after November 16, 2004 shall have maximum lot coverage for all primary and
accessory structures of 25%.
   (K)   (1)   Lot area. For the purpose of this section, any roadway
dedications, roadway easements, driveway easements, or water areas are not
considered when calculating minimum lot area.
      (2)   Placed of record. Property shall be considered placed of record
prior to the date shown in this section or the effective date of this section
as noted if:
         (a)   The property is identified as a specific parcel shown on a plat
placed in the Rutherford County Public Records prior to the date shown in this
section or the effective date of this section, as noted; or
         (b)   The property is identified as a specific parcel in a deed
recorded in the public records of Rutherford County prior to the date shown in
this section or the effective date of this section, as noted.
   (L)   Each and every property that receives a conditional use permit, must
have bear-proof trashcans.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.17) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 10-
15-2002; Am. Ord. passed 9-21-2004; Am. Ord. passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. passed
5-16-2006; Am. Ord. passed 7-18-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2022; Am. Ord.
passed 8-15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-2024; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.053 PURPOSE OF THE MR MEDIUM RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The MR Medium Residential District is established to provide
for multifamily complexes having 3 or more residential units in a single
structure; medium density tourist facility; planned unit residential
development (PUD); manufactured home parks; and other uses or complexes that
are primarily residential in character.
   (B)   Intent. The MR Medium Residential District is established as a
district in which the principal use of land is for differing residential
purposes. This district thus allows for a variety of residential uses in areas
that would accommodate higher density residential development. It is also the
intent of this district to allow for certain types of commercial uses that are
accessory to a primary residential use, and for certain nonresidential
community facilities that would not be detrimental to the residential character
of the district.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.18) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-
2003; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.054 MAXIMUM RESIDENTIAL DENSITY PERMITTED.
    Maximum residential density permitted shall not exceed 8 residential
dwelling units per acre.
(Ord. passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.055 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Uses.
      (1)   Multifamily dwellings;
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures;
      (3)   Agricultural uses;
      (4)   Houses of worship;
      (5)   Any use permitted in an LR Low Density Residential District; and
      (6)   Any use permitted in an CF Community Facility District.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted as conditional uses
subject to a review of the Planning Board and approval by the Village Council
that all applicable provisions of this chapter have been met:
      (1)   Planned unit developments. Uses allowed in the PUD are limited to
those uses listed as permitted or conditional in this district;
      (2)   Manufactured home (community or park), containing modular housing.
Class A or Class B Manufactured Homes; and
      (3)   Campground. Where the plot is primarily occupied by recreational
vehicles that are non-transitory in nature and are normally situated in place
on sites for a period up to 180 days or more per year.
   (C)   Conditional use permits require review and a recommendation from the
Zoning Administrator and the Planning Board to the Village Council for
consideration. See guidelines in § 155.052(E)(6), conditional uses, short-term
rental property. These fully apply in the MR District.
   (D)   A public hearing and all legal advertisement as apply is required by
the Planning Board prior to making their recommendation to the Village Council
and a public hearing and all legal advertisement as apply is also required by
the Village Council prior to making their decision on the issuance of any
conditional use permit.
   (E)   Transient uses. Motels, hotels, lodges and short-term rentals in
single family, duplex or other similar residential structures may occur where
the owner-occupant residential use may or may not continue to be a primary use.
      (1)   Short-term rental properties for any transient guest purposes must
be annually registered with the Village and the Rutherford County Department of
Revenue. The Village Council may set an annual registration fee for continued
operations, with usage dependent on said annual registration fee for continued
operations.
      (2)   However, if the bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/
hotels have more than 5 rooms for lodging, with a room being defined as an
enclosed space with a bed and a bathroom, then this section does not apply to
those bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/hotels.
   (F)   Other uses. A property which is residential in character may have a
portion of the total property used commercially as an accessory use to the
primary use.
   (G)   Each and every property that receives a conditional use permit, must
have bear-proof trashcans.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.20) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-
2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2022; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-
10-2024)
§ 155.056 USED PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Home occupation; performed. A home occupation, performed at an
individual residential dwelling unit, is prohibited in LR Low Residential
District and the MR Medium Residential District, except as a specifically
permitted home occupation.
   (B)   Home occupation; regulations. The regulations pertaining to home
occupation conducted at a residence are as contained in §
155.005, and as follows:
      (1)   Use is limited to activities attracting little or no vehicular
traffic, such as accountant, music instruction, telephone sales, home office
for contractor, and the like;
      (2)   No onsite sale of goods, except agricultural products produced on
the premises;
      (3)   Must be conducted by an owner or occupant of the dwelling; and
      (4)   Utilize no more than 15% of the total floor area of the dwelling.
   (C)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Lots less than 3/4 acre in size:
         (a)   Front: 35 feet;
         (b)   Side: 15 feet;
         (c)   Rear: 20 feet; and
         (d)   Corner: 25 feet.
      (2)   Lots 3/4 acre and larger in size:
         (a)   Front: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side: 25 feet;
         (c)   Rear: 35 feet; and
         (d)   Corner: 25 feet.
   (D)   Setback variances.
      (1)   Administrative variance. The Zoning Administrator may authorize
minor variances to the required setbacks as set forth in this chapter, where in
the Zoning Administrator's opinion, the variance is not contrary to the spirit
and intent of this chapter and would prevent hardships that may occur because
of unique and unusual shaped plots or because of special conditions that may
not pertain to other similar plots.
      (2)   However, in any case, the Zoning Administrator may not grant an
administrative variance greater than 20% of the required setback and may not
grant an administrative variance less than 28 feet from U.S. Highway 64/74-A.
      (3)   Council approved variances. The Village Council may grant a
variance greater than the administrative variance of 20% but shall not to
exceed 50% of the allowable setback as is designated for this zoning district.
         (a)   Any setback variance request, greater than 20% shall be
submitted in writing, including survey showing the proposed variance, to the
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, Planning Board and/or Village
Council may request any additional documentation necessary for consideration of
the application. The variance request shall be completed within 90 days of the
completion of the application, including all required documentation.
         (b)   The application must state the hardship and how current setbacks
adversely affect the current zoning use of the property.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator will receive the initial application
and shall make a recommendation to the Planning Board for their review and
their recommendation to the Village Council. A public hearing is required prior
to the Planning Board's consideration and reporting their recommendation to the
Village Council.
         (d)   The Village Council shall consider the recommendations of the
Zoning Administrator and Planning Board and will conduct a public hearing prior
to their consideration of the variance request. The Village Council shall have
the final approval authority for granting any variance to zoning setbacks that
exceed 20% but shall not be a variance greater than 50% of this zoning
district's applicable setbacks.
   (E)   Setback measurements. Setback measurements from property lines that
extend into Rocky Broad River, or into Lake Lure, or other body of water, shall
be measured from the waters' normal edge. In any case, the minimum setback
shall be no less than 20 feet.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.20) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-
2003; Am. Ord. passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023; Am. Ord. passed
10-10-2024)
§ 155.057 RCDDO RESIDENTIAL CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT OVERLAY.
    RCDDO Residential Conservation Development District Overlay is a form of
land development in which principal buildings and related structures are
grouped together on a site, thus saving the remaining land area for such uses
as common open space, conservation, recreation, and public and semi-public
uses. RCDDO Residential Conservation Development District Overlay has a number
of distinct advantages over conventional subdivision development. A well-
planned conservation development district concentrates dwelling units on the
most buildable portion of the site and preserves natural drainage systems,
vegetation, open space, slopes, and other significant natural features that
help control stormwater runoff and soil erosion. Conservation of land can be
achieved by the reduction in street lengths and utility installations.
Additional savings can be realized in street and utility maintenance.
Concentrating the dwelling units also enhances the sense of community,
promoting social interaction among neighbors. A RCDDO Residential Conservation
District Overlay conveys land for conservation purposes, open space,
recreation, or other purposes.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to permit a RCDDO Residential
Conservation Development District Overlay in order to:
         (a)   Encourage creative and flexible site design that is sensitive to
the land's natural features and adapts to the natural topography;
         (b)   Protect environmentally sensitive areas of a development site
and to preserve on a permanent basis open space, natural features, and prime
forest or scenic lands;
         (c)   Decrease or minimize nonpoint source pollution impacts by
reducing the amount of impervious surfaces in site development;
         (d)   Promote conservation through infrastructure installation and
maintenance by such techniques as reducing the distance over which utilities,
such as water and sewer lines need to be extended or by reducing the width or
length of streets; and
         (e)   Provide opportunities for social interaction and walking and
hiking in open space areas.
   (B)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings specified herein.
      BUFFER. Land maintained in either a natural or landscaped state and used
to screen and/or mitigate the impacts of development on surrounding areas,
properties, or rights-of-way.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
      COMMON FACILITIES. All the real property and improvements set aside for
the common use and enjoyment of the residents of a Residential Conservation
Development District Overlay, including, but not limited to, buildings, open
space, private streets, parking areas, walkways, recreation areas, drainage
easements, and any utilities that service more than one unit, such as sewerage
and water supply facilities.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land within a Residential Conservation
Development District Overlay that has been designated, dedicated, reserved, or
restricted in perpetuity from further development and is set aside in
perpetuity as open space. Common open space shall not be part of individual
residential lots, and shall only contain those structures and facilities as are
shown as specifically approved by the Planning Board and as shown on the
approved development plan. This area may include wetlands, floodplains or
flood-hazard areas, river or stream corridors, prime forest lands, habitats of
endangered wildlife, as identified on applicable federal or state lists, scenic
views, historical or cultural features, archaeological sites, or other elements
to be protected from development, as well as easements for public utilities.
      CONCENTRATING. A site-planning technique that concentrates buildings and
structures in specific areas on a lot, site, or parcel to allow the remaining
land to be used for recreation, open space, and/or preservation of features
and/or structures with environmental, historical, cultural, or other
significance. The techniques used to concentrate buildings may include, but
shall not be limited to, reduction in lot areas, setback requirements, and/or
bulk requirements, with the resultant open space being devoted by a
conservation easement, dedication to an approved organization, or other means
acceptable to the Planning Board.
      CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT, RESIDENTIAL. A land development project in
which the site planning technique of concentrating dwelling units is employed.
      CONSERVATION EASEMENT. The grant of a property right or interest from the
property owner to an agency, unit of government, or approved organization
stipulating that the described land shall remain in its natural, scenic, open,
or wooded state, precluding future or additional development.
      DEVELOPMENT. The construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural
alteration, relocation, or enlargement of any structure; any excavation,
landfill, or land disturbance; and/or any change in use, or alteration or
extension of the use of land.
      GROSS AREA. The total area of the site, including the net buildable area
and public rights-of-way.
      INFRASTRUCTURE. The facilities and services needed to sustain residential
development, and other related activities.
      LAND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. RCDDO Residential Conservation Development
District Overlay is a form of land development in which principal buildings and
related structures are grouped together on a site, thus saving the remaining
land area for such uses as common open space, conservation, recreation, and
public and semi-public uses. RCDDO Residential Conservation Development
District Overlay has a number of distinct advantages over conventional
subdivision development. A well- planned conservation development district
concentrates dwelling units on the most buildable portion of the site and
preserves natural drainage systems, vegetation, open space, slopes, and other
significant natural features that help control stormwater runoff and soil
erosion. Conservation of land can be achieved by the reduction in street
lengths and utility installations. Additional savings can be realized in street
and utility maintenance. Concentrating the dwelling units also enhances the
sense of community, promoting social interaction among neighbors. A RCDDO
Residential Conservation District Overlay conveys land for conservation
purposes, open space, recreation, or other purposes.
      LOT. Either:
         (a)   The basic development unit for determination of area, depth, and
other dimensional variations; or
         (b)   A parcel of land whose boundaries have been established by some
legal instrument, such as a recorded deed or recorded map, and recognized as a
separate legal entity for purposes of transfer of title.
      NET BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of the Residential Conservation
Development District Overlay that may be developed or used, whether publicly
dedicated or private, but excluding private streets, public streets, and other
publicly dedicated improvements.
      NONPROFIT CONSERVATION ORGANIZATION. A nonprofit corporation, charitable
trust, or other nonprofit organization described in Section 501(c)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code, which includes the "acquisition of property or rights in
property for conservation purposes" as part of its mission, as reflected in the
bylaws, charter, or incorporation papers of the organization.
      RESIDENTIAL CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT. A land development project in which
the site planning technique of concentrating dwelling units is employed.
      SITE PLAN. The development plan for 1 or more lots on which is shown the
existing and/or the proposed conditions of the lot.
      STREET, PRIVATE. A local roadway serving only abutting lots, not publicly
dedicated or maintained by the public, but meeting specific municipal
improvement standards, and providing access for service and emergency vehicles.
      STREET, PUBLIC. All public property reserved or dedicated for street
traffic.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected that requires location on the
ground or attached to something having location on the ground.
   (C)   Overview. The concept of a Conservation District Overlay Ordinance is
to preserve the ecologically sensitive, ecologically valuable, unique, scenic,
mountain vista, specimen vegetation, potentially unstable or otherwise valuable
or potentially hazardous property. In doing so, therefore the land upon which
the structures are placed should be land that is not ecologically valuable,
should not be land that is heavily forested, and should be land that is
relatively level and the development of structures does little ecological
damage. Therefore, in addition to applying the above criteria, the following
shall be utilized:
      (1)   Review. In addition to the application information required for
subdivision review, the area of land that is to be considered for development
of housing units and any accessory uses or accessory structures must include
the following information:
         (a)   A site plan which includes the boundaries and acreage of the
land that is to be considered for development of housing units and any
accessory uses or accessory structures, showing the scale and contour interval,
existing and proposed contours, limit and area of grading, and percent of site
to be graded;
         (b)   Average natural slope calculations which include the average
natural slope in percent, contour intervals of five feet or less, individual,
and total length of contour lines in feet and area of the parcel in acres;
         (c)   An analysis of the character of the land that is to be
considered for development of housing units and any accessory uses or accessory
structures which shall be used to determine that the subject land is among the
least desirable for preservation purposes, having a relatively level character,
and substantially low value for retention of existing vegetation; and
         (d)   Other information or descriptions or maps which may be requested
by the Zoning Administrator, and/or the Chimney Rock Village Planning Board to
address concerns regarding geologic hazards, soil stability, building-to-site
relationships, and similar characteristics.
      (2)   Issuance of permit. No land disturbance permit or any other permit
which would permit development of the site shall be issued for a plot of land
or subdivision which meets the standards set forth in the definition of land
that is to be considered for development of housing units and any accessory
uses or accessory structures until the subdivision plat review has been
completed.
   (D)   Applicability. An application shall be made to the Chimney Rock
Village Planning Board for determination that the parcel contains significant
natural or unique features for consideration to warrant application of the
RCDDO Residential Conservation Development District Overlay. Significant
natural features may be steep slopes, potentially unstable soils, rock
outcroppings, ravines, creeks, branches, waterfalls, heavily forested lands,
lands containing unique or unusual plant species, special agricultural lands,
historical sites, wetlands, marshes, and other similar geological or
hydrological unique features. The RCDDO Residential Conservation Development
District Overlay may only be utilized for single family residential structures
and their accessory uses. The determination to permit the use of the parcel
under the regulations of the RCDDO Residential Conservation Development
District Overlay shall be in the sole judgment of the Chimney Rock Village
Planning Board after public notice and public hearing conducted for that
purpose. Authorization of the RCDDO Residential Conservation Development
District Overlay is through the Zoning Ordinance and implementation of the
RCDDO Residential Conservation Development District Overlay is through the
Subdivision Regulations.
   (E)   General provisions.
      (1)   A Residential. Conservation Development District Overlay use shall
be permitted in the following zoning districts pursuant to this chapter LR Low
Residential District; HZ Holding Zone District when utilized for single family
dwellings; and upon approval of the Planning Board after due public hearings.
The Planning Board shall permit the utilization of the Residential Conservation
Development District Overlay use only after the public hearings which shall
include notification to all properties located within 500 feet. The applicant
shall provide a certified list prepared by an individual capable to prepare
such a list of properties owners as listed on the Rutherford County tax rolls.
         (a)   All principal and accessory single family residential uses
authorized in the applicable residential zoning district shall be allowed in
the Residential Conservation Development District Overlay use, with the
exception no home occupation uses shall be permitted and that no residential
unit shall be rented or leased on a short term basis for a period less than 180
days.
         (b)   Maximum building height shall not exceed 2 stories. If a
basement foundation is utilized, it shall not be considered a story if it is
constructed substantially below grade.
            1.   Basement: A building story which is partly or wholly
underground with more than one-half its height below the average level of the
adjoining ground.
            2.   Story: A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor; or
the space between 2 floors.
            3.   Building height: The distance measured from the highest ground
level at the structure foundation to the highest point of the roof.
         (c)   A minimum of 2 onsite parking spaces shall be provided for each
unit. All required parking spaces shall be accessed without backing out or over
another required parking space.
      (2)   The following provisions shall apply to any Residential
Conservation Development District Overlay, regardless of the general
requirements of the applicable residential zoning district:
         (a)   The minimum area of the Residential Conservation Development
District Overlay shall be 10 acres.
         (b)   No minimum width or depth of a lot shall apply.
         (c)   A minimum separation of 15 feet shall be provided between all
principal buildings and structures.
         (d)   The minimum setbacks as required by the LR Low Residential
District as set forth in the zoning regulations shall apply, except as set
forth in division (K) below.
         (e)   A minimum yard or common open space of a least 50 feet in depth
shall be provided, as measured from the entire Residential Conservation
Development District Overlay boundary, in which shall contain no buildings or
related structures, but such space may be contained within a lot.
         (f)   Each lot shall have a minimum access width of 12 feet to a
street. Such access may be shared with other lots, provided that such access
way does not restrict parking criteria and maneuverability for any site.
         (g)   In any instance, not less than 50% of the site shall be conveyed
as common open space in the manner provided for in division (L) below. The
applicant shall make an effort to work with the Planning Board to achieve the
greatest possible amount of land preserved for conservation purposes.
   (F)   Calculation of permitted number of dwelling units.
      (1)   The maximum number of dwelling units proposed for a Residential
Conservation Development District Overlay shall not exceed the number of
dwelling units otherwise permitted for the residential zoning district should
the parcel be developed under conventional LR Low Residential District
regulations.
      (2)   The number of permitted dwelling units on a site shall be
calculated in the following manner.
         (a)   Measure the gross area of the proposed Residential Conservation
Development District Overlay site in acres and tenths of an acre.
         (b)   Prepare a sketch plan, for Planning Board Staff review,
utilizing the lot area requirements of the LR Low Residential District, which
equates lot area to the slope of the adjacent road.
         (c)   This figure shall be rounded to the nearest lower number to
establish the maximum number of dwelling units to be permitted in the
Residential Conservation Development District Overlay.
         (d)   In any instance, the total number of dwelling units permitted
shall not exceed 1 unit per 2 acres of gross area.
   (G)   Architectural review. The applicant shall present to the Chimney Rock
Village Planning Board a comprehensive site plan, plot plans showing proposed
building envelopes, landscaping provisions, common open space provisions,
onsite parking locations, provisions for guest parking, solid waste disposal,
and any other design features that would enable the Planning Board to
adequately comprehend the site's concentration of the dwelling units.
   (H)   Contents of site plan.
      (1)   The preliminary and final site plan for a Residential Conservation
Development District Overlay shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
following information:
         (a)   The maximum number and type of dwelling units proposed.
         (b)   The areas of the site on which the dwelling units are to be
constructed and their size (this may take the form of the footprint of the
dwelling unit or a building envelope showing the general area in which the
dwelling unit is to be located).
         (c)   The calculations for the permitted number of dwelling units,
derived pursuant to division (F) above.
         (d)   The areas of the site on which other proposed principal and
accessory uses may be located and their size.
         (e)   The areas of the site designated for common open space and their
size. No area may be less than 1,000 square feet, unless approved by the
Planning Board.
         (f)   The areas of the site designated for parking and loading and the
size of individual spaces.
         (g)   The number of dwelling units.
         (h)   The location of sidewalks, walking trails, and bike paths; if
provided.
         (i)   Provisions for landscaping and screening, solid waste, etc.
   (I)   Procedures for review. The Planning Board shall review and may approve
a Residential Conservation Development District Overlay and any amendments
thereto as a land development project in the manner provided for in the Chimney
Rock Village Code of Ordinances, together with any ordinances and regulations
adopted as amendments thereto.
   (J)   Review criteria.
      (1)   In reviewing a Residential Conservation Development District
Overlay, the Planning Board shall determine whether:
         (a)   The site plan satisfies the intent and the requirements of the
Overlay Ordinance;
         (b)   Buildings and structures are adequately grouped so that the
greater percent of the total area of the site is set aside as common open space
to be set aside for conservation purposes, unless a variance is granted by the
Planning Board. To the greatest degree practicable, common open space shall be
designated as a single block and not divided into unconnected small parcels
located in various parts of the development;
         (c)   The site plan establishes, where applicable, an upland buffer of
vegetation of at least 25 feet in depth adjacent to wetlands and surface
waters, including rivers, creeks, streams, springs, lakes, and ponds;
         (d)   Individual lots, buildings, structures, streets, and parking
areas are situated to minimize the alteration of natural features, natural
vegetation, and topography;
         (e)   Existing scenic views or vistas are permitted to remain
unobstructed, especially from streets;
         (f)   The site plan accommodates and preserves any features of
historic, cultural, or archaeological value;
         (g)   Floodplains, wetlands, and areas with slopes in excess of 20%
are protected from development where possible; and
         (h)   The Residential Conservation Development District Overlay
advances the purposes of this section as stated in division (A) above.
      (2)   The Planning Board may, in its opinion, apply such special
conditions or stipulations to its approval of a Residential Conservation
Development District Overlay as may be required to maintain harmony with
neighboring uses and to promote the objectives and purposes of the
Comprehensive Plan, and the Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Regulations.
      (3)   If the Planning Board finds that the requirements of this section
are satisfied, it may approve the Residential Conservation Development District
Overlay, subject to any special conditions or stipulations pursuant to division
(J)(2) above, and any reductions (and/or waivers or variances) pursuant to
division (K) below.
   Note: While review criteria are intended to guide the Planning Board in the
evaluation of the proposed Residential Conservation Development District
Overlay, the Planning Board may wish to engage the services of an experienced
professional planner to review the proposal and advise the Planning Board on
necessary design changes, if the Board does not have such services available at
a staff level. The cost of the professional planner shall be reimbursed to the
village by the applicant prior to granting final approval of the project.
   (K)   Reduction (and/or waiver) of certain physical design requirements.
      (1)   In approving a Residential Conservation Development District
Overlay, the Planning Board may allow the reduction of the right-of-way width
and/or the pavement width of any private streets that would otherwise be
required by the subdivision regulations or other design specifications for
roads.
      (2)   An applicant who wants the reduction of the right-of-way width and/
or pavement width of private streets as provided for in division (K)(1) above,
shall submit a statement of justification for the request for a waiver or
reduction along with the site plan.
   Note. If a street proposed in a Residential Conservation Development
District Overlay is to be used as a connector from an adjoining development or
as a through street, it is probably not a candidate for a reduction in width. A
reduction or waiver will be determined on a case-by-case basis.
      (3)   In approving a Residential Conservation Development District
Overlay, the Planning Board may allow the reduction of the minimum setbacks as
required by the LR Low Residential District as set forth in the Zoning
Regulations, in addition to allowing the reduction of the right-of-way width
and/or the pavement width of any private streets or other design specifications
for roads.
   (L)   Conveyance of open space.
      (1)   Open space provided by a Residential Conservation Development
District Overlay shall be designated and protected as permanent open space in a
form approved by the Village Attorney and can be conveyed as follows:
         (a)   To a nonprofit organization whose principal purpose is the
conservation of open space. Any conveyance shall be approved by the Chimney
Rock Village Council and shall be in a form approved by the Village Attorney.
         (b)   To Chimney Rock Village and to be accepted by the Chimney Rock
Village Council for park, open space, or other specified use or uses, provided
that the conveyance is approved by the Chimney Rock Village Council and is in a
form approved by the Village Attorney.
      (2)   In any case, where the common open space in a Residential
Conservation Development District Overlay is conveyed pursuant to division (L)
(1)(a) above, the Chimney Rock Village Council may require that a deed
restriction enforceable by the Chimney Rock Village Council shall be recorded
that provides that the common open space shall:
         (a)   Be kept in the authorized conditions as set by the Chimney Rock
Village Council; and
         (b)   Not be developed for principal uses, accessory uses (e.g.,
parking), or roadways or any other use not specifically authorized by the
Chimney Rock Village Council.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2007; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
BUSINESS DISTRICTS
§ 155.070 COMMERCIAL BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)    TB Tourist Business District; and
   (B)   CB Community Business District.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.21) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023)
§ 155.071 PURPOSE OF TOURIST BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The TB Tourist Business District is intended primarily to
meet the tourist related retail needs of the village and the limited service
needs of the village. The intent of this district is to preserve the integrity
of the existing central tourist business area and to discourage uses that do
not require a central location. The district is normally compact in size, the
buildings occupy the major portion of the plot area and are located in close
proximity or may share common walls, generally have limited retail floor area,
and have limited plot area for the provision of on-site parking facilities.
Accessory residential units are often located in the same structure as the
commercial use. The district is family orientated and is suited predominately
for concentrated pedestrian activities. Typical activities would be retail
sales, restaurants, ice-cream/fudge or other food dispensing shops, craft
shops, post offices, parking areas, convenience foods and small lodging
facilities, and accessory residential units. The village should discourage any
land uses that would be detrimental to the continuation of this district as the
primary tourist service area of the village. It is hereby recognized that the
tourist industry is of prime import to the continued economic health of the
village.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Front: 28 feet;
      (2)   Side: 0 feet;
      (3)   Rear: 10 feet; and
      (4)   Corner: 10 feet.
   (C)   Administrative variance. The Zoning Administrator may authorize minor
variances to the required setbacks as set forth in this chapter, where in the
Zoning Administrator's opinion, the variance is not contrary to the spirit and
intent of this chapter and would prevent hardships that may occur because of
unique and unusual shaped plots or because of special conditions that may not
pertain to other similar plots. However, in any case, the Zoning Administrator
may not grant an administrative variance greater than 20% of the required
setback and may not grant an administrative variance less than 28 feet from US
Highway 64/74-A.
   (D)   Council approved variance. The Village Council may grant a variance
greater than the administrative variance of 20% but shall not to exceed 50% of
the allowable setback as is designated for this zoning district.
      (1)   Any setback variance request, greater than 20% shall be submitted
in writing, including survey showing the proposed variance, to the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, Planning Board and/or Village Council
may request any additional documentation necessary for consideration of the
application. The variance request shall be completed within 90 days of the
completion of the application, including all required documentation.
      (2)   The application must state the hardship and how current setbacks
adversely affect the current zoning use of the property.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator will receive the initial application and
shall make a recommendation to the Planning Board for their review and their
recommendation to the Village Council. A public hearing is required prior to
the Planning Board's consideration and reporting their recommendation to the
Village Council.
      (4)   The Village Council shall consider the recommendations of the
Zoning Administrator and Planning Board and will conduct a public hearing prior
to their consideration of the variance request. The Village Council shall have
the final approval authority for granting any variance to zoning setbacks that
exceed 20% but shall not be a variance greater than 50% of this zoning
district's applicable setbacks.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.22) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-
16-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023)
§ 155.072 USES PERMITTED IN THE TB TOURIST BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)    The following are permitted uses:
      (1)   Gift shop;
      (2)   Convenience grocery, limited to 5,000 gross square feet;
      (3)   Clothing store;
      (4)   Souvenir shop;
      (5)   General retail shop;
      (6)   Bed and breakfast, inn, or motels/hotels and short-term rentals;
         (a)   All short-term rental properties must be annually registered
with the Village and the Rutherford County Department of Revenue. The Village
Council may set an annual registration fee for continued operations, with usage
dependent on said annual registration fee for continued operations.
         (b)   However, if the bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/
hotels have more than 5 rooms for lodging, with a room being defined as an
enclosed space with a bed and a bathroom, then this section does not apply to
those bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/hotels.
      (7)   Full service restaurant;
      (8)   Ice cream shop;
      (9)   Bakery/doughnut shop;
      (10)   Snack shop;
      (11)   Post office;
      (12)   Realtor;
      (13)   Pharmacy limited to 5,000 square feet;
      (14)   Craft shop, including manufacture of craft products;
      (15)   Antique shops selling valid antique objects;
      (16)   Bookstore;
      (17)   Delicatessen;
      (18)   Card shop;
      (19)   Sundries and notions;
      (20)   Newsstand;
      (21)   Florist;
      (22)   Jewelry;
      (23)   Art, picture framing shop; and
      (24)   Barber/beauty shop.
   (B)   Accessory residential dwellings located on the same plot.
   (C)   Accessory uses and structures.
   (D)   Any question concerning the interpretation of uses permitted or
prohibited shall be referred to the Zoning Administrator. Any dispute of the
Zoning Administrator's decision may be referred to the Planning Board a minimum
of 5 days prior to a regular scheduled meeting for interpretation. The decision
of the Planning Board thereon shall be final.
   (E)   The following uses are permitted as conditional uses subject to a
finding by the Board of Adjustment that all applicable provisions of this
section have been met:
      (1)   Any use permitted in a CF Community Facility District; and
      (2)   Outdoor recreational activity areas.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.23) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 5-20-
2003; Am. Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2022; Am. Ord. passed 8-
15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.073 LIMITATIONS ON USES IN THE TB TOURIST BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)    No sales may be conducted through drive-up open doors or drive-up
windows at drive-up businesses. This shall not be construed to prohibit sales
from walk-up doors or windows.
   (B)   No secondhand or used merchandise, excepting valid antique objects and
the occasional sale of vehicles owned by the property owner or his or her
lessee, shall be offered for sale, displayed, or stored except within a
completely enclosed building.
   (C)   Hotels, motels, private clubs, and convention centers are prohibited.
   (D)   Building facades, including doors, windows, glass, awnings, siding,
rails, steps, fixtures, signs, and the like, shall be maintained in a safe,
secure condition. All exterior building parts that show signs of deterioration,
obsolescence or disrepair shall be removed, replaced, or renovated.
   (E)   Vacant store fronts with windows that are visible at street level by
pedestrian traffic and that are vacant for more than 30 days shall provide a
window screen that obscures the view of vacant space from pedestrian view.
   (F)   All new outdoor lighting fixtures installed after April 15, 2003,
including but not limited to, lighting fixtures for off-street parking
facilities, shall be located and installed in such a manner that the source of
each light is shaded, positioned and maintained as not to be visible or emit
any glare off the premises to any adjacent residential property, nor shall the
lighting fixtures be located and installed to cause glare or impair the vision
of motorists on any public roadway.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.24) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-
2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2003; Am. Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 6-
18-2013; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.074 PURPOSE OF THE CB COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The CB Community Business District is intended primarily to
meet the needs of the Hickory Nut Gorge area and surrounding regions of Western
North Carolina. These businesses generally do not require a central location;
but do require considerable ground area; do not cater directly to pedestrians;
and need a conspicuous, accessible location complete with a sufficient number
of conveniently located adjacent parking spaces.
   (B)   Intent. The CB Community Business District is established as a
district intended to protect and promote the continued vitality of the
commercial area of Chimney Rock Village. This district is intended to allow for
a wide variety of commercial and service oriented uses, and to discourage any
land uses that would be detrimental to the continuation of this district as the
primary commercial and service area of the village. It is the intent of this
district to discourage extensive strip commercial development, but rather
provide concentrations of general commercial activities.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.25) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.075 USES PERMITTED IN THE CB COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Commercial establishments.
      (1)   Grocery store, limited to 20,000 square feet;
      (2)   Hotel, motel, lodge, rental cabins and short-term rentals;
         (a)   All short-term rental properties must be annually registered
with the Village and the Rutherford County Department of Revenue. The Village
Council may set an annual registration fee for continued operations, with usage
dependent on said annual registration fee for continued operations;
         (b)   However, if the bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/
hotels have more than 5 rooms for lodging, with a room being defined as an
enclosed space with a bed and a bathroom, then this section does not apply to
those bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/hotels;
      (3)   Pharmacy, limited to 20,000 square feet;
      (4)   Professional offices, such as accountant, architect, engineer,
insurance, surveyor;
      (5)   Private clubs;
      (6)   Outdoor recreational uses;
      (7)   Child care and nurseries;
      (8)   Public and private schools;
      (9)   Hardware;
      (10)   Travel agency;
      (11)   Video rental;
      (12)   Laundromat;
      (13)   Dry cleaning, pickup only;
      (14)   Bank/financial institution; and
      (15)   Martial arts, dance studio, exercise studio.
   (B)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses and structures.
   (C)   TB Tourist Business District. Any use permitted in a TB Tourist
Business District.
   (D)   RM Medium Residential District. Any use permitted in a RM Medium
Residential District.
   (E)   LR Low Residential District. Any use permitted in a LR Low Residential
District.
   (F)   Interpretation. Any question concerning the interpretation of uses
permitted or prohibited shall be referred to the Zoning Administrator. Any
dispute of the Zoning Administrator's decision may be referred to the Planning
Board a minimum of 5 days prior to a regular scheduled meeting for
interpretation. The decision of the Planning Board thereon shall be final.
   (G)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted as conditional uses
subject to a finding by the Board of Adjustment that all applicable provisions
of this section have been met:
      (1)   Any use permitted in a CF Community Facility District; and
      (2)   Agricultural products.
   (H)   Minimum yard requirements:
      (1)   Front: 35 feet;
      (2)   Side: 25 feet;
      (3)   Rear: 25 feet; and
      (4)   Corner: 25 feet.
   (I)   Administrative variance. The Zoning Administrator may authorize minor
variances to the required setbacks as set forth in this chapter, where in the
Zoning Administrator's opinion, the variance is not contrary to the spirit and
intent of this chapter and would prevent hardships that may occur because of
unique and unusual shaped plots or because of special conditions that may not
pertain to other similar plots. However, in any case, the Zoning Administrator
may not grant an administrative variance greater than 20% of the required
setback and may not grant an administrative variance less than 28 feet from
U.S. Highway 64/74-A.
   (J)   Council approved variance. The Village Council may grant a variance
greater than the administrative variance of 20% but shall not to exceed 50% of
the allowable setback as is designated for this zoning district.
      (1)   Any setback variance request, greater than 20% shall be submitted
in writing, including survey showing the proposed variance, to the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, Planning Board and/or Village Council
may request any additional documentation necessary for consideration of the
application. The variance request shall be completed within 90 days of the
completion of the application, including all required documentation.
      (2)   The application must state the hardship and how current setbacks
adversely affect the current zoning use of the property.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator will receive the initial application and
shall make a recommendation to the Planning Board for their review and their
recommendation to the Village Council. A public hearing is required prior to
the Planning Board's consideration and reporting their recommendation to the
Village Council.
      (4)   The Village Council shall consider the recommendations of the
Zoning Administrator and Planning Board and will conduct a public hearing prior
to their consideration of the variance request. The Village Council shall have
the final approval authority for granting any variance to zoning setbacks that
exceed 20% but shall not be a variance greater than 50% of this zoning
district's applicable setbacks.
   (K)   Setback measurements. Setback measurements from property lines that
extend into the Rocky Broad River, or into Lake Lure, or other body of water,
shall be measured from the waters normal edge. In any case, the minimum setback
shall be no less than 20 feet.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.26) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 10-
15-2002; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2003; Am. Ord. passed
6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 11-16- 2004; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2022; Am. Ord.
passed 8-15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.076 LIMITATIONS ON USES IN THE CB COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Limitations include.
      (1)   No sales may be conducted through drive-up open doors or drive-up
windows at drive-up businesses. This shall not be construed to prohibit sales
from walk-up doors or windows.
      (2)   No secondhand or used merchandise shall be offered for sale,
displayed or stored closer than 50 feet to the street line unless contained
within an enclosed building.
   (B)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted as conditional uses
subject to a finding by the Board of Adjustment that all applicable provisions
of this section have been met:
      (1)   Animal hospitals, but with no open kennels on the premises;
      (2)   Automotive sales and service, excluding paint and body shops and
garages, and excluding junk yards. All repairs are to be made within a building
and all vehicles stored on the premises shall display a valid North Carolina
inspection sticker;
      (3)   Automobile service stations;
      (4)   Billiard or pool halls, video game parlors;
      (5)   Farm equipment sales and services;
      (6)   Machine, sheet metal, and roofing shops;
      (7)   Manufactured home parks containing modular housing; Class A or
Class B Manufactured Housing;
      (8)   Nursing homes, group care facilities, hospitals;
      (9)   Radio and television stations;
      (10)   Sign painting and fabricating shops; and
      (11)   Storage units.
   (C)   Limitations on uses. All new outdoor lighting fixtures installed after
April 15, 2003, including but not limited to, lighting fixtures for off-street
parking facilities, shall be located and installed in such a manner that the
source of each light is shaded, positioned and maintained as to not be visible
or emit any glare off of the premises to any adjacent residential property, nor
shall the lighting fixtures be located and installed to cause glare or impair
the vision of motorists on any public roadway.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.27) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 4-15-
2003; Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2003; Am. Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 8-
15-2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.077 COMMUNITY FACILITIES DISTRICT.
    CF Community Facility District.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.28) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
§ 155.078 PURPOSE OF CF COMMUNITY FACILITY DISTRICT.
    The CF Community Facilities District is intended for public, quasi-public
and private facilities which generally benefit the village and which may have
unusual or unique locational requirements.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.29) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed - - ;
Am. Ord. passed 8-15- 2023)
§ 155.079 USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Parks and open space, including active and passive recreation
facilities;
      (2)   Privately owned commercial recreation facilities;
      (3)   Privately owned scenic natural attractions. Any development of use
which would be detrimental to the natural and ecological beauty of the district
is prohibited:
         (a)   Permitted uses. Within the privately owned scenic natural
attraction, structures and land may be used only for the following purposes:
            1.   Commercial recreational facilities which may include hiking
trails, nature and wildlife exhibits, picnic facilities, and the like. Support
activities such as ticket sales, information services, gift and craft shops,
food service, pavilions, parking areas, garages, non-commercial workshops, and
the like, are also permitted where accessory to the primary use. All structures
shall be in keeping with the character of any adjacent residential area. Any
adjacent residential area and/or public and private rights-of-way shall be
buffered from all the commercial recreational facilities by existing or planted
natural vegetated areas to the extent that the facilities are screened from
view;
            2.   Accessory uses and structures where accessory to the primary
use; and
            3.   Agricultural uses, including the sale of agricultural
products.
         (b)   Conditional uses. The following are uses permitted as
conditional uses, subject to a finding by the Board of Adjustment that all
applicable provisions of this chapter have been met:
            1.   Residential single and 2-family dwellings, including modular
housing and Class A Manufactured Homes;
            2.   Bed and breakfast/inn/tourist home for short-term rentals;
               a.   All short-term rental properties must be annually
registered with the Village and the Rutherford County Department of Revenue.
The Village Council may set an annual registration fee for continued
operations, with usage dependent on said annual registration fee for continued
operations;
               b.   However, if the bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or
motel/hotels have more than 5 rooms for lodging, with a room being defined as
an enclosed space with a bed and a bathroom, then this section does not apply
to those bed and breakfast, inn, tourist home, or motel/hotels.
            3.   Planned unit developments; and
            4.   Hotels and motels.
      (4)   Educational institutions;
      (5)   Houses of worship;
      (6)   Libraries;
      (7)   Government administration, services and facilities;
      (8)   Police and fire protection facilities;
      (9)   Public and private utilities; and
      (10)   Accessory uses and structures.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Front: 35 feet;
      (2)   Side: 25 feet;
      (3)   Rear: 25 feet; and
      (4)   Corner: 25 feet.
   (C)   Setback variances.
      (1)   Administrative variance. The Zoning Administrator may authorize
minor variances to the required setbacks as set forth in this chapter, where in
the Zoning Administrator's opinion, the variance is not contrary to the spirit
and intent of this chapter and would prevent hardships that may occur because
of unique and unusual shaped plots or because of special conditions that may
not pertain to other similar plots.
      (2)   However, in any case, the Zoning Administrator may not grant an
administrative variance greater than 20% of the required setback and may not
grant an administrative variance less than 28 feet from U.S. Highway 64/74-A.
      (3)   Council approved variance. The Village Council may grant a variance
greater than the administrative variance of 20% but shall not to exceed 50% of
the allowable setback as is designated for this zoning district.
         (a)   Any setback variance request, greater than 20% shall be
submitted in writing, including survey showing the proposed variance, to the
Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, Planning Board and/or Village
Council may request any additional documentation necessary for consideration of
the application. The variance request shall be completed within 90 days of the
completion of the application, including all required documentation.
         (b)   The application must state the hardship and how current setbacks
adversely affect the current zoning use of the property.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator will receive the initial application
and shall make a recommendation to the Planning Board for their review and
their recommendation to the Village Council. A public hearing is required prior
to the Planning Board's consideration and reporting their recommendation to the
Village Council.
         (d)   The Village Council shall consider the recommendations of the
Zoning Administrator and Planning Board and will conduct a public hearing prior
to their consideration of the variance request. The Village Council shall have
the final approval authority for granting any variance to zoning setbacks that
exceed 20% but shall not be a variance greater than 50% of this zoning
district's applicable setbacks.
   (D)   Setback measurements. Setback measurements from property lines that
extend into the Rocky Broad River, or into Lake Lure, or other body of water,
shall be measured from the waters normal edge. In any case, the minimum setback
shall be no less than 20 feet.
   (E)   Each and every property that receives a conditional use permit, must
have bear-proof trashcans.
(2002 Code, Art. IV, § 92.00.30) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed - -;
Am. Ord. passed 10-15-2002; Am. Ord. passed 11-16-2004; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-
2023; Am. Ord. passed 10-10-2024)
MISCELLANEOUS DISTRICTS
§ 155.095 MEDICAL FACILITIES DISTRICT.
   (A)   Name. MF Medical Facilities District.
   (B)   Purpose. The MF Medical Facilities District is intended for public and
private medical facilities and related uses, which generally benefit the
village so as to provide a diversity of medical and medically related goods,
services and programs at a particular location.
   (C)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Medical offices/clinics;
      (2)   Dental offices/clinics;
      (3)   Medical/dental laboratories;
      (4)   Apothecaries, stores for sale or rental medically related
equipment;
      (5)   Physical therapy treatment/massage;
      (6)   Body art/tattoo;
      (7)   Residential care facilities; and
      (8)   Accessory uses and structures.
   (D)   Required yards. Every plot shall have a front or street yard of not
less than 50 feet in depth, a side or corner yard of not less than 25 feet in
width, and a rear yard of not less than 25 feet in depth.
(Ord. passed 6-23-2003; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023)
§ 155.096 HZ HOLDING ZONE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The HZ Holding Zone District is intended to apply to those
large areas of Chimney Rock Village, the present or prospective use of which is
uncertain, and for which any other zoning classification may be premature. The
regulations of this district are intended to permit a reasonable use of the
property while at the same time preventing the creation of conditions which
would prevent future use of the property, or of contiguous or nearby property.
   (B)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   Uses permitted in the LR Low Residential District, subject to the
requirements of §
155.052;
      (2)   Campground, recreational vehicle park, subject to the requirements
of the CG Campground/Recreational Vehicle District;
      (3)   Privately owned scenic natural attraction;
      (4)   Forestry, orchard, nursery, truck farm; and
      (5)   Uses accessory to the above.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted as conditional uses
subject to a finding by the Board of Adjustment that all applicable provisions
of this section have been met: wedding chapel.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed 8-15-2023)
§ 155.097 CG CAMPGROUND ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   The purpose of this district is to establish reasonable standards for
the development of recreational vehicle parks and campgrounds for the benefit
of the (remove the word "general") public utilizing the parks and facilities.
   (B)   Refuse storage area or areas shall be provided within the park or
campground. All garbage and refuse shall be stored in durable, watertight, rust
resistant containers, recommend "bear-proof" containers, with properly fitting
covers at each site, or in the alternate, there may be a solid waste container
(bear-proof) having the capacity to serve the entire campground placed at a
convenient location.
   (C)   All campsite utility services shall be placed underground. Main
utility lines may be placed above ground.
   (D)   No persons or group of persons other than the owner, operator or
maintenance persons shall permanently occupy any of the sites.
      (1)   Persons occupying vehicles with a total hookup capacity shall not
occupy any campground space for a period exceeding 6 months in a 12-month
period.
      (2)   Persons occupying tents or vehicles with less than a total hookup
capacity shall not occupy any campground space for a period exceeding 30 days
in a 12-month period.
   (E)   No site shall be sold within the development unless it complies with
the Chimney Rock Village subdivision ordinance.
   (F)   No permanent or semi-permanent structures shall be constructed on any
rental site without a review and a recommendation from the Planning Board to
the Village Council and the approval of the Chimney Rock Village Council, which
shall establish uniform rules for the size and material prior to construction
of any such structures. No permitted structure shall at any time interfere with
the capability to move or remove a vehicle from the rental site.
   (G)   No dogs, cats or domestic animals shall be permitted to run-at-large.
   (H)   Vehicles shall not be permanently attached to the site and the wheels
may not be removed. Permanent hardwired utility hookups are prohibited. All
vehicles must be capable to be moved at any time.
   (I)   Customary incidental uses are allowed, provided that the uses are
intended to serve the occupants and visitors of the park. The use shall present
no visible evidence of any commercial character that would attract customers
other than occupants and visitors to the park.
   (J)   No more than two single-family homes for living purposes may be placed
in the park solely serving as the residence of the owner or operator and
maintenance personnel. These may be Class A or Class B manufactured homes,
modular or conventional construction. There may be an office facility, which
also may have living quarters or have other auxiliary uses.
   (K)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted as conditional uses
subject to a favorable recommendation from the Planning Board to the Village
Council; and the Village Council's approval. The regular procedures as set
forth in the ordinances for the review and consideration of conditional use
permit applications are to be applied.
      (1)   Outdoor events. These events are unique or seasonal and may not be
a repetitive or reoccurring scheduled event.
      (2)   Retail/campground store. Primary purpose is to provide hardware,
staples, equipment for outdoor related activities and general camping supplies.
Please refer to division (I) - Incidental Uses.
      (3)   Restaurant. Primarily to provide snacks and meals for those camping
or visiting the camping facility or are part of any outdoor activity or event
(s). Please refer to division (I) - Incidental Uses.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003; Am. Ord. passed 6-20-2023) Penalty, see §
155.999
CONDITIONAL USES
§ 155.115 PURPOSE.
   Conditional uses might not be appropriate without specific standards and
requirements to assure that the uses are compatible with the other uses
permitted in the designated districts. The uses may be permitted in a zoning
district as conditional uses if the provisions of this and all other sections
of this chapter have been met.
(2002 Code, Art. V, § 92.00.31) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.116 DEVELOPMENT PLAN/SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All applications for conditional use permits shall include a
development plan or site plan.
   (B)   The development plan shall contain a map or maps drawn to scale, with
the date of preparation, and shall contain, where applicable, the following
information:
      (1)   Existing site conditions, including contours, water courses,
identified flood hazard areas, any unique natural or manmade features;
      (2)   Boundary lines of the proposed development, proposed lot lines and
plot designs;
      (3)   Proposed location and use of all existing and proposed structures;
      (4)   Location and size of all areas to be conveyed, dedicated or
reserved as common open space, recreational areas and public or semi-public
uses;
      (5)   The existing and proposed street system, including location and
number of off-street parking spaces, service areas, loading areas and major
points of access to public rights-of-way. Notations of proposed ownership of
the street system (public or private);
      (6)   Approximate location of proposed utility systems, including
documentation approving the proposed water and sewer systems from the
appropriate local and state agencies. Documentation of an approved
Sedimentation and Erosion Control Plan shall also be submitted where required.
Provisions for storm water drainage shall be shown;
      (7)   Location and/or notation of existing and proposed easements and
rights-of-way;
      (8)   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the development,
including materials and/or techniques such as screens, fences and walls;
      (9)   Information on adjacent land areas, including land use, zoning
classifications, public facilities and any unique natural features;
      (10)   Where applicable, the following written documentation shall be
submitted:
         (a)   A legal description of the total site proposed for development,
including a statement of present and proposed ownership;
         (b)   The zoning district or districts in which the project is
located;
         (c)   A development schedule indicating approximate beginning and
completion dates of the development, including any proposed stages;
         (d)   A statement of the applicant's intentions with regard to the
future selling and/or leasing of all or portions of the development;
         (e)   Quantitative data for the following: proposed total number and
type of residential dwelling units, parcel size and total amount of open space;
and
         (f)   Plan for maintenance of common areas, recreation areas, open
spaces, streets and utilities.
      (11)   Any additional information required by the Board of Adjustment in
order to evaluate the impact of the proposed development. The Board of
Adjustment may waive a particular requirement if in its opinion the inclusion
is not essential to a proper decision of the project.
(2002 Code, Art. V, § 92.00.32) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.117 CONDITIONAL USE STANDARDS.
   Before issuing a conditional use permit, the Board of Adjustment shall find
that all standards for specific uses listed in these sections as well as all
standards or requirements listed in this chapter have been met.
   (A)   Planned unit developments.
      (1)   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to encourage and provide
for flexibility and innovation in the design and location of structures and
land development, to provide for the most efficient use of land resources, and
to provide an opportunity to develop land areas in a manner different from the
standard arrangement of 1 principal building on 1 lot. It is further intended
that a planned unit development will be in harmony with the character of the
district in which it is located.
      (2)   Planned unit development defined. In this chapter, a PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT means a development where more than 1 principal building is
proposed to be constructed on a single tract, or any multifamily residential
complex containing 9 or more dwelling units, or any building with a gross floor
area of 25,000 square feet or more.
      (3)   Land development standards. The following land development
standards shall apply for all planned unit developments. These planned unit
developments may be located only in certain specified districts as conditional
uses, subject to a finding by the Board of Adjustment that the following
conditions be met:
         (a)   Ownership control. The land in a planned unit development shall
be under single ownership or management by the applicant before final approval
and/or construction, or proper assurances (legal title or execution of a
binding sales agreement) shall be provided that the development can be
successfully completed by the applicant.
         (b)   Density requirements. There are no density requirements for
nonresidential uses as long as the proposed project does not violate the intent
of the district in which it is located. The proposed residential density of the
planned unit development shall conform to that permitted in the district in
which the development is located. If the planned unit development lies in more
than 1 district, the number of allowable dwelling units must be separately
calculated for each portion of the planned unit development that is in a
separate district, and must then be combined to determine the number of
dwelling units allowable in the entire planned unit development.
         (c)   Frontage requirements. Planned unit developments shall have
access to a highway or road suitable for the scale and density of the
development being proposed.
         (d)   Minimum requirements; required distance between buildings. The
minimum distance between buildings shall be 20 feet or as otherwise specified
by the Board of Adjustment to ensure adequate air, light, privacy and space for
emergency vehicles. Every dwelling unit shall have access to a public or
private street, walkway or other area dedicated to common use, and there shall
be provision for adequate vehicular circulation to all development properties,
in order to ensure acceptable levels of access for emergency vehicles.
         (e)   Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and
acoustical privacy for all dwelling units. Fences, insulation, walks, barriers,
and landscaping shall be used, as appropriate, for the protection and aesthetic
enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants and adjacent
properties, for screening of objectionable views or uses, and for reduction of
noise. Multi-level buildings shall be located in such a way as to dissipate any
adverse impact on adjoining low rise buildings and shall not invade the privacy
of the occupants of the low rise buildings.
         (f)   Perimeter requirements. Structures located on the perimeter of
the development must be set back from property lines and rights-of-way of
abutting streets in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for the
district within which the property is situated.
         (g)   Plans for water and sewer systems.  Plans and accompanying
documentation to ensure that the water and sewer systems proposed for the
planned unit development have been approved by the appropriate local and state
agencies shall be submitted as part of the application.
         (h)   Preliminary plans. Preliminary plans shall include parking
provisions for all proposed uses within the planned unit development in
accordance with this chapter. When more than 1 use is located in the planned
unit development, the minimum required parking shall be the sum of the required
parking for each use within the development.
         (i)   Vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Any pedestrian and bicycle path
circulation system and its related walkways shall be designed to minimize
conflicts between vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
         (j)   Parking areas. Layout of parking areas, service areas,
entrances, exits, yards, courts and landscaping, and control of signs,
lighting, noise or other potentially adverse influences shall be such as to
protect the character within the zoning district and desirable character in any
adjoining district. Provisions for solid waste collection and disposal shall be
according to village policies.
         (k)   Conveyance and maintenance. Conveyance and maintenance of open
space, recreational areas and communally owned facilities shall be in
accordance with the Unit Ownership Act (G.S. Chapter 47-A) and/or any other
appropriate mechanisms acceptable to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Vehicular parking area and display areas. The intent of this section
is to provide for trees adjacent to and/or within vehicular parking areas and
display areas in order to modify and reduce the deleterious, visual,
environmental and aesthetic effects of these areas.
      (1)   All vehicular surfaces and display areas, whether temporary or
permanent, to which these landscaping requirements apply shall be provided with
a minimum of 1 large shade tree at least 12 feet to 14 feet in height and
having a minimum caliper of 2 inches, per each 2,000 square feet, or fraction
thereof, of surface area, including drives, and the like. The trees shall be
located and arranged that each tree trunk is no more than 50 feet from a
designated vehicular parking space and shall be located within planting areas
(i.e., islands) having a minimum of 300 square feet of contiguous and
landscaped growing area and having a minimum dimension of 7 feet; the
landscaped area shall be planted or mulched with no bare ground.
      (2)   Large shade trees shall not be located under overhead power lines.
In this situation, 2 small trees, of a species that would not normally exceed
20 inches in height at maturity, shall be substituted for each required large
shade tree unless prohibited by the owner of the lines or rights-of-way within
which the lines exist.
      (3)   Adequate wheel stops or curbs shall be provided for the protection
of trees that are within 5 feet of a vehicular parking/display area or
driveway. Wheel stops or curbs shall be a minimum of 6 inches in height, shall
be anchored to the ground, and may be concrete, rot resistant heavy timbers or
other effective materials.
      (4)   Existing trees may be used to satisfy the requirements of this
section.
   (C)   Trash container and dumpster screen/buffers. The large metal boxes
commonly known as “dumpsters” are a type of “trash container” as the term is
used herein. The dumpsters are, however, referred to in this section by
specific name for purposes of emphasis and clarity.
      (1)   It is the intent of this section to provide for visual screens and/
or buffers between trash container and dumpster locations and all street
rights-of-way and adjoining properties. Trash containers and dumpsters shall
not be located in the front yard of any property and shall be screened from
view on all sides, except for 1 opening not greater than 10 feet in width to
allow for service access.
      (2)   Screens and/or buffers intended to satisfy this requirement shall
be in accordance with the criteria for screens/buffers as determined by the
Board of Adjustment.
(2002 Code, Art. V, § 92.00.33) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT, APPEALS
§ 155.130 PROCESS AND DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   General. All questions arising in connection with this chapter shall
be presented first to the Zoning Administrator, who shall be responsible for
the day to day administration of this chapter. The Board of Adjustment shall
have the authority to rule on matters of interpretation of this chapter,
consider appeals from decisions of the Zoning Administrator, issue conditional
use permits and grant variances. Any appeal from a decision of the Board of
Adjustment shall be to the courts as provided by law. The Village Planning
Board shall serve in an advisory capacity to the Village Council and shall
provide recommendations to the Council including recommendations pertaining to
zoning amendments and other matters as designated in G.S. § 160A-361.
   (B)   Time limits for applications.
      (1)   Board of Adjustment.
         (a)   Whenever it has taken action to deny an application, the Board
of Adjustment shall not consider any further application for the same issue on
any part of the same property for a period of 2 years from the date of its
latest such action.
         (b)   Whenever it has taken action to deny an application, the Board
of Adjustment shall not consider an application for any kind of altered or
amended issue on any part of the same property for a period of 1 year from the
date of its latest such action.
         (c)   The above time limits may be waived by the affirmative vote of 4
of its members, when the Board of Adjustment deems such action necessary to
prevent an injustice, due to changed circumstances, or to facilitate the proper
development of the village.
         (d)   Motions for reconsideration.
            1.   Motions for reconsideration of a matter may be made only by a
member who voted with the prevailing majority on the matter to be reconsidered.
            2.   Motions to reconsider shall be made at the same meeting as the
original motion or at the meeting immediately following the original motion.
            3.   Any member of the Board may second a motion to reconsider.
            4.   If the matter to be reconsidered was considered at a public
hearing, the public hearing shall be reopened before additional testimony may
be heard.
      (2)   Planning Board and/or Village Council.
         (a)   Rezoning.
            1.   Whenever the Planning Board and/or the Village Council has
taken action to deny an application for the rezoning of property, the Planning
Board and/or the Village Council shall not consider any further application for
the same rezoning of any part of the same property for a period of 2 years from
the date of the latest such action by either the Planning Board or the Village
Council.
            2.   Whenever the Planning Board and/or the Village Council has
taken action to deny an application for the rezoning of property, the Planning
Board and/or the Village Council shall not consider an application for any kind
of rezoning or any part of the same property of 1 year from the date of the
latest such action by either the Planning Board or the Village Council.
            3.   Whenever the Village Council has changed the zoning of
property by an amendatory ordinance, the Planning Board and the Village Council
shall not consider any application for rezoning of any part of the same
property for a period of 6 months from the effective date of the ordinance.
            4.   The above time limits may be waived by the Planning Board or
the Village Council by the affirmative vote of 75% of their respective members,
when the Planning Board or Village Council deems such action necessary to
prevent an injustice, due to changed circumstances, or to facilitate the proper
development of the village.
            5.   Motions for reconsideration.
               a.   Motions for reconsideration of a matter may be made only by
a member who voted with the prevailing majority on the matter to be
reconsidered.
               b.   Motions to reconsider shall be made at the same meeting as
the original motion or at the meeting following the original motion.
               c.   Any member of the Planning Board or the Village Council may
second a motion to reconsider.
               d.   If the matter to be reconsidered was considered at a public
hearing, the public hearing shall be reopened before additional testimony may
be heard.
         (b)   Variances.
            1.   Whenever the Planning Board or the Village Council has taken
action to deny an application for a variance to any ordinance or regulation,
the Planning Board or the Village Council shall not consider any further
application for the same issue of any part of the same property for a period of
1 year from the date of the latest such action by the Planning Board or the
Village Council.
            2.   Whenever the Planning Board or the Village Council has taken
action to deny an application for a variance to any ordinance or regulation,
the Planning Board or the Village Council shall not consider an application for
any kind of altered or amended variance on any part of the same property of 6
months from the date of the latest such action by Planning Board or the Village
Council.
            3.   The above time limits may be waived by the Planning Board or
the Village Council by the affirmative vote of 75% of their respective members,
when the Planning Board or the Village Council deems such action necessary to
prevent an injustice, due to changed circumstances, or to facilitate the proper
development of the village.
            4.   Motions for reconsideration.
               a.   Motions for reconsideration of a matter may be made only by
a member who voted with the prevailing majority on the matter to be
reconsidered.
               b.   Motions to reconsider shall be made at the same meeting as
the original motion or at the meeting immediately following the original
motion.
               c.   Any member of the Planning Board or Village Council may
second a motion to reconsider.
               d.   If the matter to be reconsidered was considered at a public
hearing, the public hearing shall be reopened before additional testimony may
be heard.
(2002 Code, Art. VI, § 92.00.34) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 2-26-
2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2008; Am. Ord. passed 5-20-2008)
§ 155.131 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Chimney Rock Village Council shall appoint a Zoning Administrator. It
shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to administer and enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Duties. The Zoning Administrator shall issue certificates of zoning
compliance and certificates of occupancy as prescribed herein. The Zoning
Administrator shall serve as Clerk to the Board of Adjustment, and all
applications for variances and conditional use permits shall first be presented
to the Zoning Administrator, who in turn shall refer the applications to the
Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Violations. If the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in
writing the person responsible for the violation, indicating the nature of the
violation, and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall
order discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings or structures;
removal of illegal buildings or structures, or of additions, alterations or
structural changes thereto; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or
shall take any action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation of its provisions. If a ruling of the Zoning Administrator
is questioned, the aggrieved party or parties may appeal the ruling to the
Board of Adjustment.
(2002 Code, Art. VI, § 92.00.35) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.132 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No building or other structure shall be erected, moved, added to or
structurally altered, nor shall any building permit be issued nor shall any
change in the use of any building or land be made until a certificate of zoning
compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator. No certificate
of zoning compliance shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. Upon approval of a conditional use permit or variance by the
Board of Adjustment, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a certificate of
zoning compliance.
(2002 Code, Art. VI, § 92.00.36) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.133 APPLICATIONS FOR ZONING COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE.
   All applications for zoning compliance certificates shall be accompanied by
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the actual dimensions of the lot to
be built upon, accurate dimensions and the use of the proposed building, the
location on the lot of the building or structure proposed to be erected or
altered, and the other information as may be necessary to provide for the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Prior to issuance of a
certificate of zoning compliance, the Zoning Administrator may consult with
qualified personnel for assistance to determine if the application meets the
requirements of this chapter.
(2002 Code, Art. VI, § 92.00.37) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.134 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Upon receiving a certificate of zoning compliance, a building permit shall
be obtained from the Rutherford County Building Inspections Office for the
construction or alteration of any building or structure.
(2002 Code, Art. VI, § 92.00.38) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.135 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Zoning Administrator is
required in advance of:
      (1)   Occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved;
and
      (2)   Change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   In conjunction with the final building inspection, the Zoning
Administrator shall certify that all requirements of this chapter have been
met. The applicant shall call for the certification coincident with the final
building inspection or within 10 days following completion. A certificate of
occupancy, either for the whole or part of a building, shall be applied for
coincident with the application for a certificate of zoning compliance and
shall be issued within 10 days after the erection or structural alterations or
change in use of the building, or part, shall have been completed in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. A certificate of occupancy shall not be
issued unless the proposed use of a building or land conforms to the applicable
provisions of this chapter. If the certificate of occupancy is denied, the
Zoning Administrator shall state in writing the reasons for refusal and the
applicant shall be notified of the refusal. A record of all certificates shall
be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator, and copies shall be
furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in
the building or land involved.
(2002 Code, Art. VI, § 92.00.39) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.136 COMPLIANCE.
   In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or land is used in violation
of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator or any other appropriate village
authority, or any person who would be damaged by the violation, in addition to
other remedies, may institute an action for injunction, or mandamus, or other
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the violation.
(2002 Code, Art. VI, § 92.00.40) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.137 APPEAL FROM THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   All questions arising in connection with this chapter shall be presented
first to the Zoning Administrator, and the questions shall be presented to the
Board of Adjustment only on appeal from a ruling of the Zoning Administrator.
Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to the
procedures found in this chapter.
(2002 Code, Art. VI, § 92.00.41) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
§ 155.150 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Village Council shall serve as the Board of Adjustment.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 92.00.42) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 12-
16-2014)
§ 155.151 [RESERVED].
§ 155.152 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The powers and duties of the Board of Adjustment shall be as follows:
   (A)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals from any decision or
determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this
chapter. No appeal shall be heard by the Board unless notice thereof is filed
within 30 days after the interested party or parties receive the decision or
determination by the Zoning Administrator. Both appeals and applications shall
be filed with the Zoning Administrator, who shall act as Clerk for the Board in
receiving this notice. All appeals and applications shall be made upon the form
specified for that purpose, and all information required on the form shall be
complete before an appeal or application shall be considered as having been
filed. Once appeals and applications have been filed with the Zoning
Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall immediately notify the
Chairperson of the Board that the appeals or applications have been received.
   (B)   Conditional uses. Upon application, the Board of Adjustment may grant
in particular cases and subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards,
permits for conditional uses as authorized by this chapter and set forth as
conditional uses under the various use districts. A conditional use permit may
be granted by the Board of Adjustment only after making the following findings:
      (1)   An application for the conditional use has been submitted as
prescribed by this chapter.
      (2)   If the Board of Adjustment finds that, in the particular case in
question, the use for which the conditional use permit is sought will not
adversely affect the health or safety of persons residing or working in the
neighborhood of the proposed use, and will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to property or public improvements in the neighborhood, a
permit may be granted. In granting such a permit, the Board of Adjustment may
designate the conditions in connection therewith as will, in its opinion,
assure that the proposed use will conform to the requirements and spirit of
this chapter.
      (3)   Before any conditional use permit is issued, the Board shall make
written findings certifying compliance with the specific rules governing the
individual conditional use and that satisfactory provision and arrangement has
been made for at least the following, where applicable:
         (a)   Satisfactory ingress and egress to property and proposed
structures thereon, with particular reference to automotive and pedestrian
safety and convenience, traffic flow and control;
         (b)   Provision of off-street parking and loading areas where
required, with particular attention to the items listed above, and the
economic, noise, glare and odor effects of the conditional use on adjoining
properties in the area;
         (c)   Adequate and proper utilities, with reference to locations,
availability and compatibility;
         (d)   Buffering, with reference to type, location and dimensions;
         (e)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting, with reference to
glare, traffic safety, economic effect, and compatibility and harmony with
properties in the district;
         (f)   Playgrounds, open spaces, yards, landscaping, access ways,
pedestrian ways, with reference to location, size and suitability;
         (g)   Buildings and structures, with reference to location, size and
use;
         (h)   Hours of operation, with particular reference to protecting and
maintaining the character of the neighborhood; and
         (i)   A site plan has been submitted as required by this chapter.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall make periodic inspections during
construction as well as a final inspection after construction is complete to
determine whether the conditions imposed and agreements made in the issuance of
the permit have been met as well as whether all other requirements of this
chapter have been met. The Zoning Administrator shall report his or her
findings to the Board of Adjustment. If at any time after a conditional use
permit has been issued, the Board of Adjustment determines that the conditions
imposed and agreements made have not been or are not being fulfilled by the
holder of a conditional use permit, the permit shall be terminated and the
operation of the use discontinued. If a conditional use permit is terminated
for any reason, it may be reinstated only after reapplying for a conditional
use permit.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Upon application, the Board of Adjustment may authorize in specific
cases the variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to
the public interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter will, in an individual case, result in
practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship. The variance may be permitted as
long as the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed, public safety and
welfare secured, and substantial justice done. The variance may be granted in
the individual case of unnecessary hardship upon a finding by the Board of
Adjustment that the following conditions exist:
         (a)   There are extraordinary and exceptional conditions pertaining to
the particular piece of property in question because of its size, shape or
topography that are not applicable to other lands or structures in the same
district;
         (b)   Granting the variance requested will not confer upon the
applicant any special privileges that are denied to other residents of the
district in which the property is located;
         (c)   A literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other residents of the
district in which the property is located;
         (d)   The requested variance will be in harmony with the purpose and
intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or to the
general welfare;
         (e)   The special circumstances are not the result of the actions of
the applicant. The variance requested is the minimum variance that will make
possible the legal use of the land, building or structure;
         (f)   The variance is not a request to permit a use of land, building
or structure which is not permitted by right or by conditional use in the
district involved; and
         (g)   A nonconforming use of neighboring land, structures or buildings
in the same district, and permitted uses of land, structures or buildings in
other districts, will not be considered grounds for the issuance of a variance.
      (2)   In granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment shall make findings
that the requirements of this section have been met. The Board of Adjustment
shall make a finding, and a written notice of the decision shall be prepared.
In granting any variance, the Board of Adjustment may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards in conformity with this chapter. Violation of the
conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and punishable
under this chapter.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 92.00.44) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.153 APPEALS FROM BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment may be taken to the courts pursuant to
G.S. § 160A-388.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 92.00.45) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.154 FEES FOR VARIANCES, CONDITIONAL USES AND APPEALS.
   The fee for a request for a variance, or conditional use, or for an appeal
to the Board of Adjustment shall be determined by the Village Council, payable
to the Chimney Rock Village.
(2002 Code, Art. VII, § 92.00.46) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 155.170 ZONING EFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   (A)   Building use and alteration. No building or land shall hereafter be
used and no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered except
in conformity with the regulations herein specified for the district in which
it is located, except as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Height of buildings. All new buildings, and any additions to existing
buildings, either temporary or permanent in nature, may not be constructed or
erected to a height other than as specified below after the effective date of
this chapter.
      (1)   Residential districts. LR Low Residential District, MR Medium
Residential District, and HZ Holding Zone District: maximum height shall not
exceed 2 stories. If a basement foundation is utilized, it shall not be
considered a story if it is constructed substantially below grade.
      (2)   Commercial districts. TB Tourist Business District, CB Community
Business District, CF Community Facility District, MF Medical Facility
District, and CG Campground and recreational Vehicle District: maximum height
shall not exceed 35 feet as measured from an adjacent roadway; or measured from
the average finished or existing grade adjacent to the building if there is no
adjacent roadway.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 92.00.47) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999; Am. Ord. passed 11-
16-2004)
§ 155.171 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any parcel of land, use of land, building or structure existing at the time
of the adoption of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, that does not
conform to the use or dimensional requirements of the district in which it is
located, may be continued and maintained subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Nonconforming vacant lots. This category of nonconformance consists of
vacant lots for which plats or deeds have been recorded in the Register of
Deeds office of Rutherford County, which at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, or any amendment thereto, fail to comply with the minimum area or
width requirements of the districts in which they are located. Any such
nonconforming lot may be used for any of the uses permitted in the district in
which it is located provided that:
      (1)   Where the lot area is not more than 20% below the minimum specified
in this chapter, and other dimensional requirements are otherwise complied
with, the Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue a certificate of zoning
compliance.
      (2)   Where the lot area is more than 20% below the minimum specified in
this chapter or other dimensional requirements cannot be met, the Board of
Adjustment is authorized to approve as a variance the dimensions as shall
conform as closely as possible to the required dimensions.
   (B)   Nonconforming occupied lots. This category of nonconformance consists
of lots occupied by buildings or structures at the time of the adoption of this
chapter, or any amendment thereto, and/or used for any uses permitted in the
districts in which they are located, that fail to comply with the minimum
requirements for area, width, yard and/or setbacks for the district in which
they are located. These lots may continue to be used for any of the uses
permitted in the district in which they are located. However, the nonconformity
shall not be increased.
   (C)   Nonconforming open uses of land. This category of nonconformance
consists of lots used for storage yards, used car lots, auto wrecking,
junkyards and similar open spaces where the only buildings on the lot are
incidental and accessory to the open use of the lot and where the use of the
land is not permitted to be established hereafter, under this chapter, in the
district in which it is located. A legally established nonconforming open use
of land may be continued except as follows:
      (1)   When a nonconforming use of land has been changed to a conforming
use, it shall not thereafter revert to any nonconforming use;
      (2)   A nonconforming open use of land shall be changed only to
conforming uses;
      (3)   A nonconforming open use of land shall not be enlarged to cover
more land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming; and
      (4)   When any nonconforming open use of land is discontinued for a
period in excess of 180 days, any future use of the land shall be limited to
those uses permitted in the district in which the land is located. Vacancy and/
or non use of the land, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall
constitute discontinuance under this provision.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses of structures. This category of nonconformance
consists of buildings or structures used at the time of enactment of this
chapter, or any amendment thereto, for purposes of use not permitted in the
district in which they are located. The uses may be continued as follows:
      (1)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed to another nonconforming
use;
      (2)   When a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use, it
shall not thereafter revert to any nonconforming use; and
      (3)   A nonconforming use may not be extended or enlarged, nor shall a
structure containing a nonconforming use be altered except as follows:
         (a)   Structural alterations as required by law or ordinance to secure
the safety of the structure are permissible; and
         (b)   Maintenance and repair necessary to keep the structure in sound
condition are permissible.
      (4)   When any nonconforming use of a building or structure is
discontinued for a period in excess of 180 days, the building or structure
shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   (E)   Reconstruction of damaged buildings or structures. Any nonconforming
structure, or any structure containing a nonconforming use, which has not been
damaged more than 50% of its replacement cost by fire, wind, flood or other
causes, may be repaired and used as before provided:
      (1)   Repairs are initiated in accordance with applicable building codes;
      (2)   The total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not be
increased; and
      (3)   Reconstructed buildings may not be more nonconforming with respect
to dimensional restrictions.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 92.00.48) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.172 REMOVAL OF DANGEROUS SIGNS.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-193, the Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to summarily remove, abate or remedy a sign which is dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health or safety. The expense of the action shall be
paid by the sign owner, or if the sign owner cannot be determined, by the land
owner, and if not paid, shall be a lien upon the land or premises where the
nuisance arose, and shall be collected as unpaid taxes.
(2002 Code, Art. VIII, § 92.00.49) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.173 ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The Village Council of Chimney Rock finds that adult establishments
produce secondary effects which are undesirable in the vicinity of residential,
educational, religious or health services areas. Increased criminal activity
has been documented in and around adult establishments but understanding that
the establishments are legal within the federal and state laws, the following
section is designed to minimize or eliminate these secondary effects of adult
establishments in certain areas.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this section to conflict with any North
Carolina or federal law regulating adult or pornographic material or activity;
but rather to regulate the locations of adult establishments whose materials or
activities are legal.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly keep, maintain, or operate any adult
bookstore, adult movie house, massage parlor, topless dancing or adult
entertainment establishment within the following areas:
      (1)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet from any single-family
residential dwelling;
      (2)   Within a minimum distance of 1,500 feet from any educational,
religious or health services establishment; or
      (3)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet from any other adult
establishment.
   (D)   All measurements shall be taken by drawing straight lines from the
nearest point of the property line of the property where the proposed adult
establishment is to be located to the nearest point of the property line or
boundary of the closest single-family residential dwelling, educational,
religious, health services structure or adult establishment.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor and the Village Clerk to notify any
violator immediately of their infraction in writing by certified and/or signed
receipt requested mail.
   (F)   The violator shall cease all activities immediately upon notification.
The violator may appeal this in writing, within 10 days of notification, to the
Chimney Rock Village Council.
   (G)   The Village Council will serve as the Board of Adjustment for any
appeals or determinations concerning the applicability of this chapter. The
Village Council shall make a determination no later than 45 days from the
notice of appeal.
   (H)   Any firm, person or corporation violating the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to all applicable punishments as may be provided for
by this code, the North Carolina General Statutes and/or federal laws, as they
may apply. The violator will be subject to payment of all cost associated with
the enforcement of this chapter which may include but would not be limited to:
injunctions, court fees, legal cost and municipal staff cost.
(2002 Code, Ch. 92, § 92.10) (Ord. passed 7-16-1996; Am. Ord. passed 8-20-1996)
Penalty, see §
155.999
Statutory references:
   Part 3, zoning, grant of power, see G.S. § 160A
§ 155.174 SETBACKS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Setback required. Every new structure or addition to an existing
structure, either permanent or temporary in nature, shall be provided with
setbacks in accordance with the provisions of this section and with the Code of
Ordinances.
   (B)   Location of required setbacks. Any new structure or addition to an
existing structure, either temporary or permanent in nature, constructed or
erected adjacent to Highways US64/US74A/NC9 may not be placed closer than 28
feet to the pavement edge of Highways US64/US74A/NC9; unless this provision is
waived by the Village Council.
   (C)   Parking spaces required; commercial structures.
      (1)   Every new commercial structure, either temporary or permanent in
nature, erected on property located immediately adjacent to Highways US64/
US74A/NC9, after the effective date of this section, shall be required to
provide off-street parking facilities adjacent to the Highways US64/US74A/NC9,
to the maximum extent practical for the needs of its occupants, employees,
guests, invitees, visitors or patrons; unless this provision is waived by the
Village Council. Parking spaces shall not be less than 9 feet in width and 18
feet in length. The requirement to provide parking spaces shall not be
construed to require the owner or lessee of any property to provide public
parking facilities on private lands.
      (2)   Any existing structure that is changed to a commercial use from a
non-commercial use after the effective date of this section must comply with
the provisions of this section, unless this provision is waived by the Village
Council.
      (3)   A plan for parking facilities shall be submitted to and approved by
the Village Council or its designee prior to the issuance of a building permit
and/or the placement of any commercial structure.
(2002 Code, Ch. 92, § 92.50) (Ord. passed 7-16-1996; Am. Ord. passed 8-20-1996;
Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2008)
§ 155.175 COMMERCIAL USE OF TRAILERS AND MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Trailers and mobile homes, as defined by the Chimney Rock Village
Chapter 152 of this code, may not be used for commercial purposes within the
Chimney Rock Village limits unless this provision is waived by the Chimney Rock
Village Council after a formal public hearing is conducted upon this request.
The public hearing shall follow all prescribed announcements and procedures as
required by North Carolina law. Waivers by Village Council should ordinarily
not extend the use of the structures for a period of greater than 90 days.
Waivers by Council should be granted only during construction of a permanent
structure.
   (B)   This section does not pertain to campgrounds and recreational vehicle
parks of 25 or more sites.
   (C)   Whenever the regulations of this section conflict with the
requirements of another statute, ordinance or regulation, the more restrictive
standard shall govern.
(2002 Code, Ch. 92, § 92.11) (Ord. passed 10-15-1996)
AMENDMENTS
§ 155.190 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter, including the zoning map, may be amended by the Chimney Rock
Village Council in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 92.00.50) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.191 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Proposed changes or amendments may be initiated by the Chimney Rock Village
Council, the Planning Board, the Board of Adjustment, or 1 or more owners of
property within the area proposed to be changed or affected. All proposed
amendments shall be referred to the Planning Board for its review and
recommendation to the Village Council.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 92.00.51) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.192 APPLICATION.
   Before any action on a proposed change or amendment, an application shall be
submitted to the office of the Zoning Administrator at least 30 days prior to
the Planning Board's meeting at which the application is to be considered. The
application shall contain the name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s) of the
property in question, the location of the property, and a description and/or
statement of the present and proposed zoning regulation or district. All
applications requesting a change in the zoning map shall include a description
of the property in question.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 92.00.52) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.193 APPLICATION FEE.
   A fee, as determined by the Chimney Rock Village Council, shall be paid to
the Chimney Rock Village for each application for an amendment to cover costs
of advertising and other administrative expenses.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 92.00.53) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.194 PLANNING BOARD ACTION.
   Before taking any action on a proposed amendment to the ordinance, the
Village Council shall consider the Planning Board's recommendations on each
proposed amendment. The Planning Board shall have 35 days after the first
consideration of the application within which to submit its recommendations to
the Village Council. Failure of the Planning Board to submit recommendations
within the 35 day period shall constitute a favorable recommendation.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 92.00.54) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.195 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Before enacting any amendment to this chapter, the Village Council shall
hold a public hearing. A notice of the public hearing shall be given in
accordance with G.S. Art. 19 in Ch. 160A, Part 3.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 92.00.55) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
§ 155.196 DECISION.
   The Village Council shall make a decision on the proposed amendment within
60 days after the public hearing.
(2002 Code, Art. IX, § 92.00.56) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
SPECIAL USES
§ 155.215 GENERAL APPLICABILITY.
   A special use permit shall be required for each of the following uses:
   (A)   Recycling processing centers/solid waste convenience centers;
   (B)   Gasoline service/filling stations;
   (C)   Fast food establishments;
   (D)   Drive-in restaurants with outside service;
   (E)   Commercial uses located in temporary or permanent structures having
less than 250 square feet of enclosed gross floor area. The term “temporary or
permanent structures” above shall not include trailers, mobile homes or other
similar structures which are not permitted to be used for commercial purposes;
and
   (F)   Multifamily dwellings.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 155.216 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   All applications for a special use permit shall be addressed and
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. Applications for special use permits
shall be made on the proper form obtainable from the Zoning Administrator and
shall include the following information:
         (a)   A site plan, drawn to a scale of at least 1 inch to 40 feet,
indicating the property lines of the parcel upon which the use is proposed; the
identity of neighboring properties; any adjacent public or private streets; any
existing or proposed structures, showing setbacks to abutting rights-of-way and
property lines; parking areas, showing the number and arrangement of parking
spaces and driveway entrances; abutting and on-site utilities; surface water
drainage; and significant natural features. The site plan shall be neatly drawn
and indicate north point, name and address of the person who prepared the plan,
date of the original drawing and an account record of any later revisions.
         (b)   Building and floor elevations, which shall include flood
elevations if the site is located in a floodplain; a floor plan, indicating
dimensions of the building, gross floor space; and any other applicable
information.
         (c)   A complete and detailed description of the use proposed,
together with any other pertinent information which the applicant feels would
be helpful to the Village Council in considering the application.
         (d)   A plan showing the size, type, lighting (if any) and location of
any signage proposed to be erected in conjunction with the use.
      (2)   Some of the required information to be submitted may be waived by
the Zoning Administrator at the time of submission as may be applicable, such
as for changes of use in existing buildings involving no expansions, and the
like.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a complete application for a special use permit by the
Zoning Administrator, and after review by the Planning Board, the Village
Council shall, within 45 days, call a public hearing and shall give notice as
required by law. At the hearing, the applicant or designated representative
thereof shall appear for the purposes of offering testimony and recommendations
as to the application. In addition, the Council shall allot reasonable time for
the expression of views by any member of the public attending the meeting in
person or represented by an attorney.
   (C)   (1)   The Village Council shall grant and issue the special use permit
if and only if it finds the following:
         (a)   The use will not materially endanger the public health or safety
if located where proposed and developed according to the plan as submitted and
approved;
         (b)   The use meets all required conditions and specifications;
         (c)   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining or
abutting property or, in the alternative, the use is a public necessity; and
         (d)   The location and character of the use, as developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located and in general conformity with the plan of development of
the village and its environs.
      (2)   If, in the opinion of the Village Council, any 1 of the above
conditions has not been met, the Council shall deny the application.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall inform the applicant or representative
within 15 days after the final decision of the Village Council of the Council's
ruling, either granting, granting with conditions or denying the special use
permit.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 155.217 ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS AS TO USE.
   In addition to any other requirements provided by this chapter, the Village
Council may designate additional conditions and requirements in connection with
the application as will, in its opinion, assure that the use in it's proposed
location will be harmonious with the area in which it is proposed to be located
and is in keeping with the spirit of this chapter. All additional conditions
shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting at which the permit is granted.
All conditions so imposed shall run with the land and shall be binding upon the
original applicant's heirs, successors or assigns, during the continuation of
the use conditionally permitted or any similar use.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 155.218 SANCTIONS.
   In the event of failure to comply strictly with the plans, documents and
other assurances submitted and approved with the application, or in the event
of failure to comply with any conditions imposed upon the special use permit,
the permit shall thereupon immediately become void. No further construction
under the special use permit shall take place and all improvements to the land
which were the subject of the application shall thereupon be regarded as non-
conforming and shall be subject to sanctions.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 155.219 EXPIRATION OF SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   A special use permit shall expire if a building permit for the use is not
obtained by the applicant within 6 months from the date of the decision. If,
after commencing work under a special use permit and prior to completion of the
entire project, work is discontinued for period of 6 months, the special use
permit shall become void and no work may be performed until a new special use
permit has been issued. When a special use permit expires, the Village Council
shall treat re-application for a new special use permit in the same manner as
any other application and the provisions of the ordinance currently in effect
shall be applicable.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2002)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations. Whenever, by the provisions of §§
155.001 et seq.,
155.025 et seq.,
155.050 et seq.,
155.070 et seq.,
155.115 et seq.,
155.130 et seq.,
155.150 et seq.,
155.170 et seq., and
155.190 et seq. the performance of any act is prohibited, or whenever any
regulation, dimension, or limitation is imposed on the use of any land, or on
the erection or alterations, or the use or change of use of a structure, or the
uses within the structure, a failure to comply with the provisions of §§
155.001 et seq.,
155.025 et seq.,
155.050 et seq.,
155.070 et seq.,
155.115 et seq.,
155.130 et seq.,
155.150 et seq.,
155.170 et seq., and
155.190 et seq. shall constitute a separate violation and a separate offense.
      (2)   Penalties. Any person, firm, or corporation who violates the
provisions of §§
155.001 et seq.,
155.025 et seq.,
155.050 et seq.,
155.070 et seq.,
155.115 et seq.,
155.130 et seq.,
155.150 et seq.,
155.170 et seq., and
155.190 et seq. shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall
be fined not exceeding $50 and/or imprisoned for a period of time not exceeding
30 days. Each day of violation shall be considered a separate offense.
      (3)   Remedies. If a building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, moved or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of §§
155.001 et seq.,
155.025 et seq.,
155.050 et seq.,
155.070 et seq.,
155.115 et seq.,
155.130 et seq.,
155.150 et seq.,
155.170 et seq., and
155.190 et seq., the Zoning Administrator, in addition to other remedies, may
institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful
erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, moving,
maintenance or use, to restrain, correct or abate the violation, to prevent
occupancy of the building, structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act,
conduct of business or use in or about the premises.
(2002 Code, Art. X) (Ord. passed 10-19-1999)
   (C)   For any violation of §
155.174, a penalty of not more than $100 may be imposed upon the owner of the
property where the violation of §
155.174 has occurred. In the case of a continuing violation, each 24 hour
period in which the violation exists shall constitute a separate violation.
(2002 Code, Ch. 92, § 92.50) (Ord. passed 7-16-1996; Am. Ord. passed 8-20-1996)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        10-14-2003  Extend corporate limits to include a 51.17 acre tract
-        10-18-2005  Extend corporate limits to include a 63.66 acre tract
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina Code
References to 2002 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA CODE
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                 Code Section
1-593                     10.05
7A                        153.044
                          90.99,
                          95.07,
14-4                      130.04,
                          151.08,
                          154.999
14-288.12                 Ch. 33
                          94.01,
14-399                    94.02,
                          94.05
18B-101                   110.01
20-4.01(11)               130.22
20-4.01(27)a.             130.22
20-4.01(27)c.             130.22
20-4.01(27)d. and d.1.    130.22
20.4.01(48)               130.22
20-4.01(49)               130.22
20-156                    70.08
47-30                     154.045
47A                       155.117
89C                       154.044
89C-1 through 89C-28      154.064
105-360                   Charter
130A, Article 9           153.020
130A-290(a)(6)            153.020
130A-290(a)(35)           153.020
130A-290(a)(36)           153.020
                          154.005,
136-102.6                 154.043,
                          154.080
136-102.6 (f)             154.044
143, Article 21           154.066
143, Article 21, Part 6   153.001
143-143.15                153.066
143-440                   50.42
159, Article 3            32.01
159-7 et seq.             30.22
159-25                    30.22
159-28                    32.01
160A                      155.173,
                          98.02
160A through 160A-432     98.02
160A, Article 8           153.001
160A, Article 19, Part 2  154.002
                          153.001,
160A, Article 19, Part 3  155.001,
                          155.195
160A, Article 19, Part 5  153.001
160A, Article 19, Part 8  153.001
160A-11                   10.18
160A-69                   30.03
160A-70                   30.04
160A-71                   30.41
160A-72                   30.20
160A-74                   30.40
160A-75                   30.40
160A-146                  30.01
160A-171                  30.20
160A-173                  30.20
160A-174                  151.02
160A-175                  10.99,
                          151.08
160A-175(c)               151.08
160-A175(d) and (e)       90.99
160A-188                  90.05
                          Ch. 95,
160A-193                  95.06,
                          155.172
160A-291 et seq.          Ch. 91
160A-296                  Ch. 93
160A-300                  Ch. 70
160A-303                  Ch. 92
160A-361                  31.01, 155.13
160A-388                  155.153
160A-411 et seq.          Ch. 150
160A-412                  151.08
160A-426 through 160A-432 98.02
160A-439                  98.02
163-292                   Charter
164-7                     10.14
Ch. 166A                  Ch. 33
166A-7(b)                 Ch. 33
166A-8                    Ch. 33
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 2002 CODE
2002 Code 2007 Code
2002 Code             2007 Code
Ch. 20, § 20.01      30.01
Ch. 20, § 20.02      30.02
Ch. 20, § 20.03      30.04
Ch. 20, § 20.04      30.04
Ch. 20, § 10.15      30.40
Ch. 20, § 20.16      30.41
Ch. 20, § 20.17      30.42
Ch. 21, § 21.01      30.20
Ch. 21, § 21.02      30.21
Ch. 21, § 21.04      30.22
Ch. 21, § 21.05      30.23
Ch. 22, § 22.01      32.01
Ch. 22, § 22.02      32.02
Ch. 31, § 31.10      91.01
Ch. 31, § 31.11      91.02
Ch. 31, § 31.12      91.03
Ch. 31, § 31.13      91.04
Ch. 31, § 31.14      91.05
Ch. 40, § 40.01      93.01
Ch. 40, § 40.15      93.15
Ch. 40, § 40.16      93.16
Ch. 40, § 40.18      93.18
Ch. 40, § 40.19      93.19
Ch. 40, § 40.20      93.20
Ch. 40, § 40.21      93.21
Ch. 40, § 40.22      93.22
Ch. 40, § 40.23      93.23
Ch. 40, § 40.47      93.17
Ch. 41, § 41.01      51.01
Ch. 41, § 41.02      51.02
Ch. 41, § 41.04      51.03
Ch. 41, § 41.05      51.04
Ch. 41, § 41.08      51.05
Ch. 50, § 50.01(a)   50.15
Ch. 50, § 50.01(b)   50.16
Ch. 50, § 50.01(c)   50.17
Ch. 50, § 50.01(d)   50.18
Ch. 50, § 50.01(e)   50.19
Ch. 50, § 50.01(f)   50.20
Ch. 50, § 50.01(g)   50.21
Ch. 50, § 50.01(i)   50.22
Ch. 50, § 50.01(h)   50.99
Ch. 70, § 70.01      70.01
Ch. 70, § 70.02      70.02
Ch. 70, § 70.03      70.03
Ch. 70, § 70.06      70.04
Ch. 70, § 70.07      70.05
Ch. 70, § 70.08      70.06
Ch. 70, § 70.09      70.07
Ch. 70, § 70.10      70.08
Ch. 80, § 80.01      92.01
Ch. 80, § 80.02      92.02
Ch. 80, § 80.03      92.03
Ch. 80, § 80.04      92.04
Ch. 80, § 80.05      92.05
Ch. 80, § 80.06      92.06
Ch. 80, § 80.07      92.07
Ch. 80, § 80.08      92.08
Ch. 80, § 80.09      92.09
Ch. 80, § 80.10      92.10
Ch. 80, § 80.11      92.10
Ch. 81, § 81.01      90.01
Ch. 81, § 81.02      90.02
Ch. 81, § 81.03      90.03
Ch. 81, § 81.04      90.04
Ch. 81, § 81.05      90.05
Ch. 81, § 81.99      90.99
Ch. 82, § 82.01      94.01
Ch. 82, § 82.02      94.02
Ch. 82, § 82.03      94.03
Ch. 82, § 82.04      94.04
Ch. 83, § 83.01      95.01
Ch. 83, § 83.02      95.02
Ch. 83, § 83.03      95.03
Ch. 83, § 83.04      95.04
Ch. 83, § 83.05      95.05
Ch. 83, § 83.06      95.06
Ch. 83, § 83.07      95.07
Ch. 84, § 84.02      130.02
Ch. 84, § 84.03      130.03
Ch. 84, § 84.04      130.20 -
                      130.25
Ch. 84, § 84.06      130.04
Ch. 84, § 84.07      130.40 -
                      130.47
Ch. 84, § 84.08      130.05
Ch. 90, § 90.01      150.20
Ch. 90, § 90.02      150.21
Ch. 90, § 90.03      150.22
Ch. 90, § 90.04      150.23
Ch. 90, § 90.05      150.24
Ch. 90, § 90.06      150.25
Ch. 90, § 90.07      150.26
Ch. 90, § 90.08      150.27
Ch. 90, § 90.09      150.28
Ch. 90, § 90.10      150.29
Ch. 90, § 90.58      150.30
Ch. 90, § 90.78      150.99
Ch. 90, § 91.10      150.31
Ch. 92, § 92.10      155.173
Ch. 92, § 92.11      155.175
Ch. 92, § 92.50      155.174,
                      155.999
Ch. 100, § 100.01    110.01
Ch. 100, § 100.01    110.99
Art. I                154.001
Art. I, § 92.00.00   155.001 -
                      155.004
Art. I, § 92.00.01   155.005
Art. II               154.002
Art. II, § 92.00.02  155.025
Art. II, § 92.00.03  155.026
Art. II, § 92.00.04  155.027
Art. II, § 92.00.05  155.028
Art. II, § 92.00.06  155.029
Art. II, § 92.00.07  155.030
Art. II, § 92.00.08  155.031
Art. II, § 92.00.09  155.032
Art. II, § 92.00.10  155.033
Art. II, § 92.00.11  155.034
Art. II, § 92.00.12  155.035
Art. II, § 92.00.13  155.036
Art. III              154.003
Art. III, § 92.00.14 155.006
Art. IV               154.004
Art. IV, § 92.00.15  155.050
Art. IV, § 92.00.16  155.051
Art. IV, § 92.00.17  155.052
Art. IV, § 92.00.18  155.053
Art. IV, § 92.00.20  155.054,
                      155.055
Art. IV, § 92.00.21  155.070
Art. IV, § 92.00.22  155.071
Art. IV, § 92.00.23  155.072
Art. IV, § 92.00.24  155.073
Art. IV, § 92.00.25  155.074
Art. IV, § 92.00.26  155.075
Art. IV, § 92.00.27  155.076
Art. IV, § 92.00.28  155.077
Art. IV, § 92.00.29  155.078
Art. IV, § 92.00.30  155.079
Art. V, § 92.00.31   155.115
Art. V, § 92.00.32   155.116
Art. V, § 92.00.33   155.117
Art. V, § 500        154.025
Art. V, § 501        154.026
Art. V, § 502        154.027
Art. VI               154.005
Art. VI, § 92.00.34  155.130
Art. VI, § 92.00.35  155.131
Art. VI, § 92.00.36  155.132
Art. VI, § 92.00.37  155.133
Art. VI, § 92.00.38  155.134
Art. VI, § 92.00.39  155.135
Art. VI, § 92.00.40  155.136
Art. VI, § 92.00.41  155.137
Art. VII, § 92.00.42 155.150
Art. VII, § 92.00.44 155.152
Art. VII, § 92.00.45 155.153
Art. VII, § 92.00.46 155.154
Art. VII, § 700      154.040
Art. VII, § 701      154.041
Art. VII, § 702      154.042
Art. VII, § 704      154.044
Art. VII, § 705      154.045
Art. VII, § 706      154.046
Art. VII, § 707      154.047
Art. VIII, § 92.00.47155.170
Art. VIII, § 92.00.48155.171
Art. VIII, § 92.00.49155.172
Art. VIII, § 800     154.060
Art. VIII, § 801     154.061
Art. VIII, § 802     154.062
Art. VIII, § 803     154.063
Art. VIII, § 804     154.064
Art. VIII, § 805     154.065
Art. VIII, § 806     154.066
Art. VIII, § 807     154.067
Art. IX, § 92.00.50  155.190
Art. IX, § 92.00.51  155.191
Art. IX, § 92.00.52  155.192
Art. IX, § 92.00.53  155.193
Art. IX, § 92.00.54  155.194
Art. IX, § 92.00.55  155.195
Art. IX, § 92.00.56  155.196
Art. IX, § 900       154.080
Art. IX, § 901       154.081
Art. IX, § 902       154.082
Art. IX, § 903       154.083
Art. IX, § 904       154.084
Art. IX, § 905       154.085
Art. IX, § 906       154.086
Art. IX, § 907       154.087
Art. IX, § 908       154.088
Art. X                154.006,
                      155.999
Art. XI               154.007
Art. XII, § 1202     154.105
Art. XII, § 1203     154.009
Art. XIII, § 1200    154.999
Attachment A          155.007
Attachment B          155.008
§ 62.10              111.01 -
                      111.03
§ 91.01              150.01 -
                      150.03
§ 91.02              150.50 -
                      150.57
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     155.005,
-        --          155.078-
                     155.079
                     154.001-
                     154.007,
                     154.009,
                     154.025-
                     154.027,
                     154.040-
                     154.042,
-        4-1-1985    154.044-
                     154.047,
                     154.060-
                     154.067,
                     154.080-
                     154.088,
                     154.105,
                     154.999
                     155.173-
-        7-16-1996   155.174,
                     155.999
                     155.173-
                     155.174,
-        8-20-1996   155.215-
                     155.219,
                     155.999
-        9-3-1996    154.080
-        10-15-1996  155.175
-        9-21-1999   31.01-
                     31.05
                     155.001-
                     155.008,
                     155.025-
                     155.036,
                     155.050-
                     155.053,
                     155.055-
                     155.056,
                     155.070-
                     155.079,
-        10-19-1999  155.115-
                     155.117,
                     155.130-
                     155.137,
                     155.150,
                     155.152-
                     155.154,
                     155.170-
                     155.172,
                     155.190-
                     155.196,
                     155.999
-        11-16-1999  50.40-
                     50.48
-        6-22-2000   155.005
-        7-18-2000   155.005
-        4-16-2002   51.01-
                     51.05
                     50.15-
-        8-20-2002   50.22,
                     50.99
-        9-17-2002   94.05, 150.-
                     150.03
                     11.01,
-        10-15-2002  155.052,
                     155.075,
                     155.076
-        10-16-2002  154.041,
                     154.044
                     31.01-
                     31.05,
                     155.053,
                     155.055-
-        4-15-2003   155.056,
                     155.073,
                     155.075-
                     155.076, 155.096,
                     155.097
                     155.072-
-        5-20-2003   155.073,
                     155.075-
                     155.076
                     11.01,
                     130.02,
                     130.20-
                     130.25,
                     130.40-
-        6-23-2003   130.47,
                     130.99,
                     155.072-
                     155.073,
                     155.075-
                     155.076, 155.095
-        7-15-2003   155.006
-        9-16-2003   150.32,
                     150.51
-        9-18-2003   130.01
-        10-14-2003  T.S.O. I
                     130.20-
-        4-20-2004   130.25,
                     130.99
-        5-24-2004   31.01,
                     31.03
-        9-21-2004   154.082,
                     155.005
-        9-21-2004   155.052
                     151.01-
-        10-19-2004  151.09,
                     151.25-
                     151.27
                     154.080,
                     154.086,
                     155.005,
                     155.052,
-        11-16-2004  155.054,
                     155.056,
                     155.071,
                     155.075,
                     155.079,
                     155.170
-        2-15-2005   155.010
-        5-25-2005   154.008
-        7-1-2005    50.01
                     154.041-
                     154.042,
-        8-23-2005   154.044,
                     154.080,
                     154.082,
                     154.086
                     154.001-
                     154.007,
                     154.009,
                     154.025-
                     154.027,
                     154.040-042,
                     154.044-
                     154.047,
-        10-18-2005  154.060-
                     154.067,
                     154.080,
                     154.082,
                     154.083-
                     154.088,
                     154.105,
                     154.999,
                     TSO I
-        5-16-2006   155.010,
                     155.052
                     154.027,
                     154.040-
-        6-20-2006   154.044,
                     154.086,
                     155.009
-7       -18-2006    155.052
-        10-17-2006  154.067
                     151.25,
-        11-14-2006  151.40-
                     151.48
-        10-16-2007  154.005,
                     154.047
-        10-16-2007  150.70 -
                     150.80
-        10-16-2007  155.057
                     153.001 -
-        10-16-2007  153.087,
                     153.999
-        1-15-2008   51.04
-        2-26-2008   155.130
                     153.001-
                     153.007,
                     153.020-
                     153.025,
                     153.040-
-        4-15-2008   153.044,
                     153.065-
                     153.069,
                     153.085-
                     153.087,
                     153.999
-        5-20-2008   155.130
-        5-20-2008   155.130
-        8-19-2008   10.99
-        8-19-2008   96.01,
                     96.02
-        8-19-2008   150.050-150.057
-        8-19-2008   154.040
-        8-19-2008   154.042
-        8-19-2008   154.043
-        8-19-2008   154.045
-        8-19-2008   154.080
-        8-19-2008   155.174
                     97.01-
-        9-18-2008   97.06,
                     Ch. 97, Appendix
-        7-21-2009   70.01
-        7-21-2009   111.01-
                     111.03
-        8-18-2009   154.081
-        10-20-2009  130.06
                     97.01-
-        7-17-2010   97.06,
                     Ch. 97, Appendix
-        8-17-2010   51.06,
                     51.07
-        8-17-2010   94.01
-        6-21-2011   112.01-
                     112.04
-        7-19-2011   130.20-
                     130.30
02-12    9-18-2012   110.01
01-12    10-16-2012  98.01 -
                     98.09
-        6-18-2013   155.073
                     151.07,
-        12-16-2014  151.25,
                     151.27
-        12-16-2014  111.01,
                     111.02
                     31.02,
-        12-16-2014  31.03,
                     155.150
-        1-16-2016   150.02
                     97.01-
-        2-23-2018   97.11,
                     97.99
                     151.01-
                     151.09,
                     151.25-
-        - -         151.27,
                     151.40-
                     151.48,
                     151.99
-        5-19-2020   33.01-
                     33.10
                     150.01,
                     150.02,
-        5-7-2022    155.052,
                     155.055,
                     155.072,
                     155.075
-        6-20-2023   155.097
                     155.025-
                     155.036,
                     155.050-
-        8-15-2023   155.057,
                     155.070-
                     155.079,
                     155.095,
                     155.096 
-        9-17-2024   155.012
-        9-17-2024   155.052
                     155.050-
                     155.057,
-        10-10-2024  155.072-
                     155.077,
                     155.079
                    
 
