CLYDE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2023 S-6 Supplement, current through:
6-22-2023; and State legislation current through
North Carolina Legislative Service, 2023 Regular Session, Pamphlet #1
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OF CLYDE
OFFICIALS
 
Mayor              James Trantham
Mayor Pro Tem      Frank Lay II
Alderman           Dann Jesse
Alderwoman         Diane Fore
Alderman           John Hemingway
Town Attorney
Town Administrator Joy Garland
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of construction
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computation of time
   
10.13   Record of ordinances
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Ordinances saved
   
10.17   Amendment of code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Clyde, North
Carolina, shall be designated as the Clyde Code of Ordinances and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the
general statutes of the state.
   (B)   (1)   Where a section of this code is followed by a reference to the
general statutes of the state, the reference indicates that the section is
analogous or similar to the cited sections in the general statutes of the
state.
      (2)   Footnotes, cross-references and other comments are by way of
explanation only and should not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
   (C)   All provisions of this code are limited in application to the
territorial boundaries of the town although the provisions may not be so
limited specifically.
   (D)   Code, title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part
of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I not incompatible with future legislation shall
apply to ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code
unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD, BOARD OF ALDERMEN. The Board of Aldermen of Clyde, North Carolina.
      CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The town code, as modified by amendment,
revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Haywood County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part-owner, joint
owner, tenant-in-common, tenant by the entireties, tenant in partnership or
joint tenant of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Includes person, persons, firm, corporation, copartnership,
trustee, lessee or receiver.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      STATE. State of North Carolina.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include tenants
at sufferance and tenants at will and shall include any person holding a
written or oral lease of, or who occupies the whole or a part of, the building
or land, either alone or with others.
      TOWN. Clyde, North Carolina.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of that ordinance.
   (A)   "AND" or "OR". Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written "and/or", if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (C)   General term. A general term following a specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated, unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express that intent, the spelling shall be corrected and
the word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal law, shall
be the official time for the transaction of all town business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this code or
by any ordinance, the day of the act, event or default from which the
designated period of time begins to run shall not be included. The last day of
the period so computed is to be included unless it is a Saturday, a Sunday, a
legal holiday, as defined by state statute, or a day the office in which the
act is to be done is closed during regular business hours. In any event, the
period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, a Sunday, a
legal holiday or a day on which the office is closed. When the period of time
allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, legal
holidays and days on which the office is closed shall be excluded from the
computations.
§ 10.13 RECORD OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances hereafter passed and adopted by the Town Board shall be
recorded by the Town Clerk in a book of ordinances. The original shall be filed
in the Town Clerk's office and the Town Clerk shall obtain and attach thereto
the proof of publication from the publisher for all ordinances hereafter
published.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Town
Board, or a certain town officer or employee, to make additional ordinances or
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
ordinances and regulations of a similar nature serving the purpose effected
prior to the codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect
and are saved.
§ 10.17 AMENDMENT OF CODE.
   (A)   Any chapter, section or division amended or added to this code by
ordinances passed subsequent to this code may be numbered in accordance with
the numbering system of this code and printed for inclusion herein.
   (B)   Any chapter, section or division repealed by subsequent ordinances may
be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages.
   (C)   Subsequent ordinances as printed or omitted shall be prima facie
evidence of the subsequent ordinances until the Town Board adopts a new code of
ordinances.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section of this code, or failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with this
code, shall be, upon conviction, guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine
not to exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day that any of
the provisions of this code are violated shall constitute a separate offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES
      
31.   ORDINANCES
      
32.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
33.   FINANCE; PURCHASING
      
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: LEGISLATIVE PROCEDURES
Section
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Quorum
   
30.04   Minutes
   
30.05   Mayor to preside
   
30.06   Mayor to have voting rights
   
30.07   Committees
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen of the town shall be
held, as set up at each month’s meeting, at 3:00 p.m. on the second Wednesday
of each month at the Town Hall unless otherwise designated by the Board.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. I, § 1)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings of the Board may be held, after 24 hours’ notice,
upon the call of the Mayor or upon the request in writing of any two members of
the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   Notice of the time and purposes of the special meetings shall be
posted at the Town Hall and due notice shall be given to the Mayor and Board of
Aldermen the time and purposes of the meetings.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. I, § 2)
§ 30.03 QUORUM.
   A majority of the members of the Board of Aldermen shall constitute a quorum
and no official business of the town shall be transacted by the Board unless a
quorum is present.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. I, § 3)
§ 30.04 MINUTES.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to be present at all meetings of the
Town Board and to keep in a book provided for that purpose a record of all the
proceedings of the Board.
§ 30.05 MAYOR TO PRESIDE.
   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Board and, in his or her
absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. I, § 5)
§ 30.06 MAYOR TO HAVE VOTING RIGHTS.
   The Mayor shall have voting rights.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. I, § 6)
§ 30.07 COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor and Aldermen may create committees of the Board for special
purposes as they deem best.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. I, § 7)
CHAPTER 31: ORDINANCES
Section
   
31.01   Effective date
   
31.02   Ordinances confined to one subject
   
31.03   Official copy
   
31.04   Ordinances appropriating money
§ 31.01 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall be effective after the ratification thereof, except
ordinances specifying some other effective date or ordinances required by state
law to be effective only after having met specific date requirements.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. II, § 1)
§ 31.02 ORDINANCES CONFINED TO ONE SUBJECT.
   All ordinances shall be confined to one subject, except appropriation
ordinances which shall be confined to the subject of appropriations only.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. II, § 2)
§ 31.03 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor and attested to by the Town Clerk shall be known as an
official copy of any ordinance for the town. All ordinances or a true copy
thereof shall be inserted in this code in the proper chapter.
§ 31.04 ORDINANCES APPROPRIATING MONEY.
   No appropriation ordinance or an ordinance to alter or repeal an
appropriation ordinance shall be enacted at any meeting other than a regular
meeting, except by a unanimous vote of the entire Board.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. II, § 4)
CHAPTER 32: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
32.01   Office of Mayor
   
32.02   Office of Administrator
   
32.03   Office of Town Clerk
   
32.04   Finance Officer
   
32.05   Tax Collector
   
32.06   Other officers and employees
   
32.07   Employees’ bonds
§ 32.01 OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to cause all ordinances of the town to be
enforced, to attend and preside over all meetings of the Board. It shall
further be the duty of the Mayor to, within 30 days after the close of each
year, require a report to the Board of Aldermen from the various departments of
the town government for the previous year and recommend adjustments as he or
she may see fit and the Mayor shall perform other duties as the Board may from
time to time require. The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the
town.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. III, § 1)
§ 32.02 OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Town Administrator shall be appointed by the Board at the first
meeting in December following each election.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall oversee the day to day tasks of each
department within the town.
   (C)   The Town Administrator shall keep or cause to be kept in a safe place
all monies, records and accounts.
   (D)   The Town Administrator shall perform other duties as the Board may
from time to time require.
§ 32.03 OFFICE OF TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall be appointed by the Board at the first meeting in
December following each election.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall attend all meetings of the Board of Aldermen and
shall regularly and fairly record all of their proceedings in a book to be kept
by him or her for that purpose. He or she shall also keep a well-bound book to
be styled the code of ordinances, in which he or she shall fairly and correctly
transcribe all ordinances which are enacted by the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall perform other duties as the Board may from time
to time require.
§ 32.04 FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall be appointed by the Board at the first
meeting in December following each election.
   (B)   The Finance Officer shall keep or cause to be kept in a safe place all
monies, records and accounts.
   (C)   The Finance Officer shall disburse funds for the various purposes of
the town only when an appropriation for such purpose has been made in the
annual budget and the disbursement is authorized by the Board of Aldermen.
   (D)   The Finance Officer shall perform other duties as the Board may from
time to time require.
§ 32.05 TAX COLLECTOR.
   The Tax Collector shall be appointed by the Board at the first meeting in
December following each election.
§ 32.06 OTHER OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Other officers and employees that are deemed necessary shall be appointed by
the Board of Aldermen at the first meeting in May following each election. All
officers and employees shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and receive
compensation as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. III, § 3)
§ 32.07 EMPLOYEES’ BONDS.
   The Administrator and other officers or employees required by the Board
shall, before entering upon their duties, post bond in amounts specified by the
Board. All bond premiums shall be paid from town funds; provided that, when two
officers are combined, such as Clerk and Treasurer, only one bond shall be
required.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. III, § 4)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE; PURCHASING
Section
   
33.01   Disbursement of funds
   
33.02   Purchasing procedure
§ 33.01 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   No money shall be disbursed from the town treasury, except on order of the
Board in session and then only if the item for which the disbursement is made
has been provided for in the annual budget, except in the case of an extreme
emergency.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. IV, § 1)
§ 33.02 PURCHASING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the town or any
purchases made by any town employee, the Board of Aldermen must approve or
otherwise give authority to the employee before purchasing.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without permission from the Board
of Aldermen will be held responsible for the cost of same.
(Prior Code, Ch. A, Art. IV, § 2)
CHAPTER 34: LAW ENFORCEMENT SERVICES
Section
   
34.01   Contract services
§ 34.01 CONTRACT SERVICES.
   The Town of Clyde will contract law enforcement services through the office
of the Haywood County Sheriff.
(Ord. passed 3-11-2021)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Intent and purpose
   
35.02   Duties and responsibilities
   
35.03   State of emergency
   
35.04   Proclamation of state of emergency
   
35.05   Curfew
   
35.06   Termination of curfew and state of emergency
   
35.07   Unlawful activities during state of emergency
   
35.08   Conflicting chapters, orders, rules and regulations suspended
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to set forth the authority and responsibility
of the Mayor and Board of Aldermen and staff in the prevention of, preparation
for, response to and recovery from natural or man-made disasters or hostile
military or paramilitary action, and to:
   (A)   Reduce vulnerability of people and property of the town to damage,
injury, and loss of life and property;
   (B)   Prepare for prompt and efficient rescue, care and treatment of
threatened or affected persons;
   (C)   Provide for the rapid and orderly rehabilitation of persons and
restoration of property; and
   (D)   Provide for cooperation and coordination of activities relating to
emergency and disaster mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery among
agencies and officials of this town, and with similar agencies and officials of
other counties, municipalities, state and federal governments, with interstate
organizations, and with other private and quasi-official organizations.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2013)
§ 35.02 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Mayor shall have the authority to independently exercise the following
duties and responsibilities, after reasonable attempts to convene a meeting of
the full Board of Aldermen if proven unsuccessful. The Mayor shall have the
authority to delegate any of the authorized power to a designee such as the
Mayor Pro Tem or Town Administrator.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2013)
§ 35.03 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   A STATE OF EMERGENCY shall be deemed to exist wherever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives, safety or
property.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2013)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of the Mayor during state of emergency, G.S. § 14-288.12; G.S. 166A,
Article 1A
§ 35.04 PROCLAMATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor, or his or
her designee, is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public
proclamation, declaring to all persons the existence of such a state of
emergency, and, in order more effectively to protect the lives, safety and
property of people within the town, to define and impose a voluntary or
mandatory curfew applicable to all persons within the jurisdiction of the town.
   (B)   Some prohibitions and/or restrictions may be enacted for certain
activities regardless of a curfew.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2013)
§ 35.05 CURFEW.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and empowered to
limit the application of such a curfew to any area specifically designated and
described within the corporate limits of the town, and to specific hours of the
day or night; and to exempt from the curfew law enforcement, firemen, doctors,
nurses and such other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order, and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of the people within the town.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2013; Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021)
§ 35.06 TERMINATION OF CURFEW AND STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   The Mayor, or his or her designee, shall proclaim the end of such state and
curfew as soon as circumstances warrant or when directed to do so by the Board.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2013)
§ 35.07 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITIES DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency when a curfew has
been imposed, the Mayor, or his or her designee, may impose by proclamation any
of the following restrictions as seen fit under the emergency circumstances:
   (A)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one's own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
their purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition.
   (B)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one's own premises.
   (C)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline or any other similar
petroleum products, kerosene or any other inflammable substances, except as
expressly authorized by the provisions of the curfew imposed.
   (D)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or roadway,
or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity, or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2013) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.08 CONFLICTING CHAPTERS, ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS SUSPENDED.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
chapters, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. passed 2-13-2013)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
Class 2 misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $1,000
and/or imprisonment not exceeding 120 days, as provided by G.S. 15A-1340.23.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWERS GENERALLY
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   PRIVIES; SEPTIC TANKS
      
53.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWERS GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Board to regulate
   
50.02   Water and sewer connections
   
50.03   Separate connections required
   
50.04   Sewer required
   
50.05   Use of town water
   
50.06   Water and sewer rates; billing
   
50.07   Tampering with or obstructing water and sewer lines prohibited
   
50.08   Private water supply regulated
   
50.09   Water and Sewer Superintendent
   
50.10   Water application
Rules and Regulations
   
50.25   Classification of service
   
50.26   Application for service
   
50.27   Guaranteed deposit
   
50.28   Initial or minimum charge
   
50.29   Town’s responsibility and liability
   
50.30   Consumer’s responsibility
   
50.31   Access to premises
   
50.32   Change of occupancy
   
50.33   Meter reading; billing; collection
   
50.34   Suspension of service
   
50.35   Sewers generally
   
50.36   Complaints; adjustments
   
50.37   Abridgement or modification of rules
   
50.38   Citizens outside city limits
Cross-reference:
   Privies; Septic Tanks, see
Ch. 52
   Sewers, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 BOARD TO REGULATE.
   The sewer and water system of the town shall be under the control of, and
the duty of prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with all the rules and
regulations governing all connections with the public sewer and water system
shall be vested in the Board or its authorized agent.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 1)
§ 50.02 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall connect with the water or sewer systems
of the town until he, she or it shall have made application and shall have paid
connection charges which shall be determined from time to time by the Board and
which shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Each individual business or residential building or structure shall install
a separate water and sewer connection.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 3)
§ 50.04 SEWER REQUIRED.
   All owners of improved property which is or may be located upon or within a
reasonable distance of the sewerage system of the town, where the sewerage
system is in operation, shall connect with the sewerage system all water
closets, bathtubs, lavatories, sinks, drains, showers and other connections
upon their respective properties or premises so that the contents may be made
to empty into the sewer or sewer system.
   (A)   No outdoor privies may be hereafter constructed on or near any sewer
line, and the Board of Aldermen or the Health Office may require and enforce
immediate abandonment of any privy.
   (B)   No person shall maintain or use a residence location within 300 yards
of another residence that is not provided with sewerage, where the sewerage is
available, or with septic tanks approved by the State Board of Health, or with
sanitary privy which complies in construction and maintenance with the
requirements of the State Board of Health.
   (C)   No person shall, after having an outdoor privy condemned, rebuild the
outdoor privy but must connect to town sewerage system where the connection is
available. If the connection is not available, the person must build a septic
tank or outdoor privy according to the requirements of the State Board of
Health.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Privies; Septic Tanks, see
Ch. 52
§ 50.05 USE OF TOWN WATER.
   (A)   No consumer will be allowed to supply or sell water to other persons,
families or corporations, nor shall any person take or carry away water from
any hydrant, watering trough or public fountain.
   (B)   The fire hydrants are for the use of the Fire Department for fighting
fires and are not to be used by any unauthorized person for any purpose,
without permission from the Board.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 WATER AND SEWER RATES; BILLING.
   Water and sewer rates and water and sewer connections charges shall be
determined from time to time by the Board of Aldermen and shall be kept on file
in the office of the Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 6) (Ord. passed 7-1-2008; Ord. passed 7-1-2009)
§ 50.07 TAMPERING WITH OR OBSTRUCTING WATER AND SEWER LINES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall touch, tamper or, in any manner, manipulate or turn the cut-
offs on the water mains forming a part of the water system of the town, nor
shall any person tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any water or
sewer line, main or any appurtenance thereto. No person shall throw or deposit
any material or substance in any water or sewer line that will in any manner
obstruct the line.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to furnish, supply
or provide, for gain or profit, any water from a private well or pumps in or to
any dwelling house, boarding house, inn, hotel, café or other commercial
establishment, or any room or rooms of the same, when the dwelling house or any
room or rooms therein are rented, or offered for rent to the public, or when
the boarding house, inn, hotel, café or other commercial establishment is open
to, or used by, the public.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 WATER AND SEWER SUPERINTENDENT.
   The Board of Aldermen may select some competent person to supervise under
its general control the entire water and sewer system of the town. The Board
may, from time to time, prescribe the duties and responsibilities of the
Superintendent. The Superintendent shall, at all reasonable hours, have free
access to all premises for the purpose of examining hydrants, fixtures or
connections on which town water pressure is maintained.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. I, § 9)
§ 50.10 WATER APPLICATION.
   The residential application for utility service is adopted by reference as
if set out in full in this section.
(Ord. passed - -)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.25 CLASSIFICATION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Residential. This category applies strictly to a single-family
dwelling or to each residential unit in an auto court, duplex or multiple-
dwelling building.
   (B)   Commercial. This category applies to all service not classified as
residential.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 1)
§ 50.26 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   The consumer will make application for service, in person, at the
office of the town and at the same time make the deposit guarantee required
below.
   (B)   The town may reject any application for service not available under a
standard rate or which involves excessive service cost, or which may affect the
supply of service to others customers or for other good and sufficient reasons.
   (C)   The town may reject any application for service when the applicant is
delinquent in payment of bills incurred for service previously supplied at any
location; provided that, when the owner of the premises has been served water
and had not paid for same, the town shall not be required to render service to
anyone at the location where the water was used, until the water bill has been
paid.
   (D)   For violation of any of the provisions of these rules relating to
application for service, the town may remove the meter and discontinue service
upon termination of service or meter tampering. Applicable fees are defined in
§
50.33(C) and (D).
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 2)
§ 50.27 GUARANTEED DEPOSIT.
   (A)   For residential use, a minimum cash deposit in an amount determined
from time to time by the Board of Aldermen may be required. The minimum cash
deposit shall be required of all person occupying rented premises or occupying
trailers, mobile homes or any temporary place of abode or habitation. For
commercial use, the deposit required shall be a minimum amount as determined
from time to time by the Board of Aldermen.
   (B)   The individual in whose name the deposit is made shall be responsible
for payment of all bills incurred in connection with the service furnished.
   (C)   A separate deposit is required for each meter installed.
   (D)   The guarantee deposit receipt is not negotiable and can be redeemed
only at the town’s offices.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 3)
§ 50.28 INITIAL OR MINIMUM CHARGE.
   (A)   The initial or minimum charge, as provided in the rate schedule, shall
be made for each meter installed, regardless of location.
   (B)   Water furnished for a given lot shall be used on that lot only. Each
class of service must be separately metered.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 4)
§ 50.29 TOWN’S RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town shall run a service line from its distribution line to the
property line where the distribution line exists and runs immediately adjacent
and parallel to the property to be served, and for which a service charge, as
set forth by the Mayor and Board of Aldermen and posted in the Town Hall, will
be made for each such new service where a standard meter is installed inside
city limits and outside the city limits and a proportionately greater charge
where a meter of larger dimension is installed. Note: The connection charges,
as posted in the Town Hall, may be changed by order of the town at a time as
market conditions may justify all other provisions herein to remain in effect.
   (B)   The town may install its meter at the property line or, at the town’s
option, on the consumer’s property or in a location mutually agreed upon.
   (C)   When two or more meters are to be installed on the same premises for
different consumers, they shall be closely grouped and each clearly designated
to which consumer it applies.
   (D)   The town does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
consumer’s piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefor.
   (E)   The town reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer’s
lines and piping are installed in a manner as to prevent cross-connections or
backflow.
   (F)   The town shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from water or the use of water on the consumers premises, unless the
damage results directly from negligence on the part of the town. The town shall
not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting from any defect in
piping, fixtures or appliances on the consumer’s premises. The town shall not
be responsible for negligence of third persons, or forces beyond the control of
the town, resulting in any interruption of service. If adjustments are
requested, the Town Board will review on an individual basis and make a
determination on whether to grant the adjustment to an account.
   (G)   Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 5)
§ 50.30 CONSUMER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Piping on the consumers’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the town’s lines or mains.
   (B)   If the consumer’s piping on the consumer’s premises is so arranged
that the town is called upon to provide additional meters, each place of
metering will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (C)   Where meter is placed on premises of a consumer, a suitable place
shall be provided by consumer for placing the meter, unobstructed and
accessible at all times to the meter reader.
   (D)   The town may require the consumer to furnish and maintain a private
cut-off valve on the consumer’s side of the meter, the town to provide a like
valve on the town’s side of the meter.
   (E)   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained,
by the consumer at the consumer’s expense, in a safe and efficient manner and
in accordance with the town’s rules and regulations and in full compliance with
the sanitary regulations of the State Board of Health.
   (F)   The consumer shall guarantee proper protection for the town’s property
placed on the consumer’s premises and shall permit access to it only by
authorized representatives of the town.
   (G)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town, such
as meters, meter boxes, or meter lids, or any accident or injury to persons or
property is caused by or results from the negligence or wrongful act of the
consumer, his or her agent or employees, the cost of the necessary repairs or
replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the town and any liability
otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the consumer.
   (H)   The amount of the loss or damage or the cost of repairs may be added
the consumer’s bill and if not paid, service may be discontinued by the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 6)
§ 50.31 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   (A)   Duly authorized agents of the town shall have access, at all
reasonable hours, to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing
or removing town property, inspecting piping, reading or testing meters or for
any other purpose in connection with the town’s service and facilities.
   (B)   Each consumer shall grant or convey, or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed, to the town, a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any
property owned or controlled by the consumer wherever the perpetual easement
and right-of-way is necessary for the town water facilities and lines, so as to
be able to furnish service to the consumer.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 7)
§ 50.32 CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Notice must be given in person or in writing or by other electronic
means at the town’s office to discontinue service or to change occupancy.
   (B)   The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to
the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period is
longest.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 8)
§ 50.33 METER READING; BILLING; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Meters will be read and bills rendered as follows: monthly, but the
town reserves the right to vary the dates or length of period covered,
temporarily or permanently if necessary or desirable.
   (B)   Bills for water will be figured in accordance with the town’s
published rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed
for the period covered by the meter readings.
   (C)   Charge for service commences when meter is installed and connection
made, whether used or not. If meter is locked down by town employees per the
request of the customer, a $10 fee will be charged to the customer’s account,
but monthly billing without consumption will be waived until water is restored.
   (D)   Accounts two months delinquent will be subject to immediate
termination of service if not paid in full by 5:00 p.m. on the 15th of the
month, in accordance with division (H) of this section. A $25 reconnect fee
will be charged to restore service. Service will be restored during working
hours only.
   (E)   In the event that a town employee finds evidence of a meter that has
been tampered with, or finds that the lock has been cut, to restore the service
a $200 fine will be charged in addition to the reconnect fee, and payment of
account balance in full will be required before service will be restored.
   (F)   Failure to receive bill does not relinquish responsibility for
payment, nor waive reconnect fees. The town accepts payments on-line at
www.paybill.com/townofclyde, or by phone at 1-866-315-6146.
   (G)   Failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent the bills from
becoming delinquent nor relieve the consumer from payment.
   (H)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in
writing his complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in an amount determined from time to time by the Board of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 9)
§ 50.34 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   When services are discontinued, deposits will be applied to final
bills and the balance, if any, will be refunded.
   (B)   Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the deposit
will be applied by the town toward settlement of the account. Any balance will
be refunded to the consumer, but if the deposit is not sufficient to cover the
bill, the town may proceed to collect the balance in the usual way provided by
the law for the collection of debts.
   (C)   Service discontinued for nonpayment of bills will be restored only
after bills are paid in full, including the reconnect fee.
   (D)   The town reserves the right to discontinue its service without notice
for the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumers willful disregard of the town’s rules;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the town’s
control;
      (5)   Legal processes;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities;
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, accident or any unavoidable cause; and/or
      (8)   Returned check for utility payment or utility deposit payment.
   (E)   The town may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
   (F)   In the event that a town employee finds evidence that a meter has been
tampered with or the lock has been cut, to restore service a $200 fine will be
charged in addition to the reconnect fee, and payment of account balance in
full will be required before service will be restored.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 10) (Am. Ord. -, passed 8-10-2011)
§ 50.35 SEWERS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No privately owned or maintained sewer system or septic tanks shall be
maintained within the town limits.
   (B)   All consumers shall use every reasonable effort to ensure that no
surface water from gutters, down spouts or drains is introduced into the sewage
system and shall likewise use every effort to prevent infiltration into the
sewage system of all surface waters.
   (C)   All sanitary waste within the town limits must be connected with the
municipal sewage system.
   (D)   A sewer fee will be collected from all persons within the city limits
and a sewer connection fee will be collected from all persons outside the town
limits. The connection charges hereinabove provided may be changed by order of
the town as such time as market conditions may justify. Charges are posted in
the town’s office.
   (E)   The rules set forth in this subchapter are in addition to all rules
and regulations provided elsewhere.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 11) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Septic tanks, see
Ch. 52
§ 50.36 COMPLAINTS; ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   If the consumer believes his or her bill to be in error, he or she
shall present his or her claim, in person, at the town’s office before the bill
becomes delinquent.
   (B)   The claims if made after the bill has become delinquent shall not be
effective in preventing discontinuance of service, as heretofore provided. The
consumer may pay the bill under protest and the payment shall not prejudice his
or her claim.
   (C)   If the seal of a meter is broken by other than the town’s
representative or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for
any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his or
her previous bills and/or from other proper data.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 12)
§ 50.37 ABRIDGEMENT OR MODIFICATION OF RULES.
   (A)   No promise, agreement or representation of any employee of the town
shall be binding upon the corporation, except as it shall have been agreed upon
in writing, signed and accepted by the acknowledged officers of the town.
   (B)   No modification of rates or any of the rules and regulations shall be
made by any agent of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. II, § 13)
§ 50.38 CITIZENS OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   All citizens outside city limits who wish to connect to the town’s
mains, either water or sewer, will be required to pay the connection fees.
   (B)   All arrangements must be made prior to connection and permission
granted by the Board of Aldermen.
   (C)   All water and or sewer mains outside city limits once installed,
regardless of who installed the main or mains will become the property of the
town once they are connected to the town mains. The town will be responsible
for the maintenance of the mains to the town meter on a water main and to the
consumers property line on a sewer main.
(Prior Code, Ch. E, Art. III, § 1) (Ord. -, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose and policy
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Abbreviations
   
51.004   Effective date
Use Requirements
   
51.015   Use of public sewer required
   
51.016   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.017   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.018   Specific pollutant limitations
   
51.019   State requirements
   
51.020   Town’s right of revision
   
51.021   Excessive discharge
   
51.022   Accidental discharges
   
51.023   Private wastewater disposal
Building Sewers; Inspections
   
51.035   Generally
   
51.036   Use of public sewers
   
51.037   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.038   Existing connections
   
51.039   Sewer charges
Administration Generally
   
51.050   Wastewater dischargers
   
51.051   Monitoring facilities
   
51.052   Inspection and sampling
   
51.053   Pretreatment
   
51.054   Confidential information
Wastewater Contribution Permits
   
51.065   General permits
   
51.066   Application
   
51.067   Modifications
   
51.068   Conditions
   
51.069   Duration
   
51.070   Transfer
Reporting Requirements for Permittee
   
51.085   Compliance date report
   
51.086   Periodic compliance report
Enforcement
   
51.100   Harmful contributions
   
51.101   Revocation of permit
   
51.102   Notification of violation
   
51.103   Show cause hearing
   
51.104   Legal action
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater collection and treatment system for the town
and enables the town to comply with all applicable state and federal laws
required by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will interfere with the operations of the system or
contaminate the resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality
wastewater system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated,
into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the
system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges for the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, assumes that existing customer’s capacity will not be
preempted, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the town and to persons outside the town
who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users of the town’s POTW.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the appropriate authority of the town’s
POTW shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 1.1)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized representative
of an industrial user may be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; and
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter (mg/l)).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. A sewer conveying wastewater from the premises of a user to
the POTW.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The approval authority, defined hereinabove, or the
appropriate authority if the town has an approved pretreatment program under
the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state so that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act, (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
“discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the
Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes, trade or
business as distinct from domestic or sanitary wastes.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the town’s
NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by
the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the ACT, (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or any
criteria, guidelines or regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act or
more stringent state criteria (including those contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA), applicable to the
method of disposal or use employed by the POTW.
   MAY. Permissive
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and 40
C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
categorical pretreatment standard which will be applicable to the source, if
the standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
Federal Register.
      (2)   Where the standard is promulgated later the 120 days after
proposal, NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The human-made or human-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant
properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of
discharging or otherwise introducing the pollutants into a POTW. The reduction
or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1.27 centimeters in dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance by the town.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant, but does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not
connected to a facility providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter,
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons outside the town who are, by contract or agreement with the town, users
of the town’s POTW.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the town’s wastewater
disposal system who:
      (1)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the town’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (3)   Has in his or her wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to §
307 of the Act of State Statutes and rules; or
      (4)   Is found by the town, Division of Environmental Management or the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact, either
singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater
treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or air
emissions generated by the system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of sewer or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24 hours’ concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STATE. State of North Carolina.
   STORM DRAIN. (Sometimes termed STORM SEWER.) A drain or sewer for conveying
sewer, ground water, subsurface sewer or unpolluted water from any source.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surfaces of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standards Methods for the
Examination of Sewer and Wastewater and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOWN. The town or the Board of Aldermen.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants listed as toxic
in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency under the provision of CWA § 307(a) or other acts.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the town’s POTW.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures form
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous
with WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or SEWER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid- and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with may be present, whether treated or untreated, which is
contributed into or permitted to enter the POTW.
   WASTEWATER. The spent sewer of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and sewer-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with any
ground water surfaces water, and storm water that may be present.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water-courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 1.2)
§ 51.003 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   l. Liter
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 1.3)
§ 51.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its adoption
by the Board of Aldermen of the town on 2-10-1987.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 14)
USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 51.015 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectional waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town, or in any area under jurisdiction of the town, any wastewater or other
polluted sewers, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewer.
   (D)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may be in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
town, is hereby required at the owner’s expense to install suitable toilet
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 90 days after date of official notice to do;
provided that, the public sewer is within 100 feet (30.5 meters) of the
property line.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any substance which will cause the
POTW to violate its NPDES and/or state disposal system permit or the receiving
water quality standards.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any wastewater with objectionable
color not removed in the treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any wastewater having a temperature
which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater with a temperature at the introduction
into the POTW which exceeds 40°C (104°F) unless the POTW treatment plant is
designed to accommodate the temperature.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any pollutants, including oxygen
demanding pollutants (BOD and the like) released at a flow rate and/or
pollutant concentration which a user knows or has reason to know will cause
interference to the POTW. In no case shall a slug load have a flow rate or
contain concentration or qualities of pollutants that exceed for any time
period longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration, quantities or flow during normal operations.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any wastewater containing any
radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration as may exceed
limits established by the appropriate authority in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to deposit any wastewater which causes a hazard
to human life or creates a public nuisance.
   (K)   When the appropriate authority determines that a user(s) is
contributing to the POTW, any of the above enumerated substances in amounts as
to interfere with the operation of the POTW, the appropriate authority shall:
      (1)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the contribution on the POTW;
and
      (2)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for the user to correct the
interference with the POTW.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 2.1) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.016 FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent
than limitation imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The
appropriate authority shall notify all affected users of the applicable
reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 2.2)
§ 51.017 MODIFICATION OF FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where the town’s wastewater treatment system achieves consistent
removal of pollutants limited by federal pretreatment standards, the town may
apply to the approval authority for modification of specific limits in the
federal pretreatment standards.
   (B)   CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the amount of a pollutant
or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the wastewater treatment system
to a less toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is achieved by the
system 95% of the samples taken when measured according to the procedures set
forth in § 403.7(c)(2) of 40 C.F.R. part 403 - “General Pretreatment
Regulations for Existing and New Sources of Pollution” promulgated pursuant to
the Act.
   (C)   The town may then modify pollutant discharge limits in the federal
pretreatment standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. part 403, §
403.7, are fulfilled and prior approval from the approval authority is
obtained.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 2.3)
§ 51.018 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of:
0.10   mg/l arsenic
0.01   mg/l cadmium
1.00   mg/l copper
0.05   mg/l cyanide
0.10   mg/l lead
0.01   mg/l mercury
0.20   mg/l nickel
0.10   mg/l silver
0.10   mg/l total chromium
10.00  mg/l zinc
280.00 mg/l total identifiable chlorinated hydrocarbons
0.001  mg/l phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the town’s wastewater
       treatment processes
 
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 2.4)
§ 51.019 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 2.5)
§ 51.020 TOWN’S RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The town reserves the right to establish, by ordinance, more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 2.6)
§ 51.021 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGE.
   No user shall ever increase the use of process water or, in any way, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific
limitation developed by the town or state. (Comment: Dilution may be an
acceptable means of complying with some of the prohibitions set forth in §
51.015; e.g., the pH prohibition.)
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 2.7) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.022 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities
to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the town for review, and shall be approved by the town before
construction of the facility. All existing users shall complete a plan by
January 1. No user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective
date of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system
until accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the town. Review
and approval of the plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the
industrial user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the case of an
accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of the user to immediately
telephone and notifies the POTW of the incident. The notification shall include
location of discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective
actions.
   (B)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the appropriate authority a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss or damage.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 2.8)
§ 51.023 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
51.015, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
appropriate authority. The application for the permit shall be made on a form
furnished by the town, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the appropriate
authority. A permit and inspection fee of 2% of estimated cost shall be paid to
the town at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
appropriate authority. The appropriate authority shall be allowed to inspect
the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the appropriate authority when the work is ready for final
inspection and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health of the state. No permit shall be issued for any private
wastewater disposal system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities
where the area of the lot is less than 10,000 square feet. No septic tank or
cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, as provided in division (A) above, a
direct connection shall be made to the public sewer within 60 days in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private wastewater disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled
with suitable material.
   (F)   The owners shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no cost to the town.
   (G)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health Officer.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 3.1)
BUILDING SEWERS; INSPECTIONS
§ 51.035 GENERALLY.
   (A)   No unauthorized persons shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the appropriate authority.
   (B)   There shall be one class of building sewer permit. The owner(s) or
his, her or their agent shall make application on a special form furnished by
the town. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of the
appropriate authority. A permit and inspection fee of $5 for a building sewer
permit and shall be paid to the town at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through and adjoining alley, court or driveway, the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer, but the town does not and will not assume any obligation or
responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any single connection
aforementioned.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the appropriate authority, to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
state.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected indirectly or
directly to a public sanitary sewer unless the connection is approved by the
appropriate authority for purpose of disposal of polluted surface drainage.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the state. All such connections shall be
made gas tight and water tight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
appropriate authority before installation.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
appropriate authority when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under
the appropriate authority or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavation for the building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Street, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the town.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 9) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.036 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any polluted
waters such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or
cooling water to any sewer, except storm water runoff from limited areas, which
storm water may by polluted at times, may be discharges to the sanitary sewer
by permission of the appropriate authority.
   (B)   Storm water other than that exempted under division (A) above and all
other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the sewers as are specifically
designated as combined sewers and storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved
by the appropriate authority and other regulatory agencies.
   (C)   Unpolluted industrial cooling sewer or process sewers may be
discharged, on approval of the appropriate authority, to a storm sewer,
combined sewer or natural outlet.
   (D)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described sewers or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benezine, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any sewers containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injure or interfere with any waste treatment process constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving sewers of the wastewater treatment plant;
      (3)   Any sewers or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive properly capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater works; and/or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substance in quantities or of the size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mus, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, ungrounded garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the
like, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (E)   The following described substances, materials, sewers or waste shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either the sewers, wastewater treatment process or
equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
appropriate authority may set limitations lower than the limitations
established in the regulations below is, in his or her opinion, the severe
limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In forming his or her
opinion as to the acceptability, the appropriate authority will give
consideration to the factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation to
flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, degree of treat ability of the waste in the wastewater treatment plant
and other pertinent factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or
characteristics of waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which
shall not be violated without approval of the appropriate authority are as
follows:
      (1)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils or product of mineral oil;
      (2)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (3)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oils, fat or
grease;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. Garbage grinders
may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions,
restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage
originated from the preparation of food in kitchens for the purpose of
consumption on the premises or when served by caterers;
      (5)   Any sewers or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances to a degree that any material
received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment plant exceeds
the limits established by the appropriate authority for the materials;
      (6)   Any sewers or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the appropriate authority;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
as my exceed limits established by the appropriate authority in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (8)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which are constitute a
“slug”, as defined herein;
      (9)   Sewers or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to a degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving sewers; and
      (10)   Any sewer or wastes which, by interaction with sewer or wastes in
the public sewer system, releases obnoxious gases from solids which interfere
with the collection system or create a condition deleterious to structures and
treatment processes.
   (F)   If any sewers or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which sewers contain the substances or posses
the characteristics enumerated in division (D) above, and which is the judgment
of the appropriate authority, may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater
facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create
a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the appropriate authority
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer changes under the provisions of
division (I) below.
   (G)   When considering the above alternatives, the appropriate authority
shall give consideration to the economic impact of each alternative on the
discharger. If the appropriate authority permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the appropriate
authority.
   (H)   All food preparation or serving facilities connected to the town’s
sanitary sewer system shall install, maintain and keep in continuous operation
a grease trap interceptor. Food preparation or serving facilities shall
maintain a written record of maintenance performed on the interceptor for a
minimum of three years and shall immediately produce that record upon the
town’s request.
   (I)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any sewers or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner(s) at his or her expense.
   (J)   The appropriate authority may require a user of sewer services to
provide information needed to determine compliance with this chapter. These
requirements may include:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge peak rate and volume over a specified time
period;
      (2)   Chemical analyses of wastewaters;
      (3)   Information on raw materials, processes and products affecting
wastewater volume and quality;
      (4)   Quantity and disposition of specified liquid, sludge, oil, mud,
solvent or other materials important to sewer use control;
      (5)   A plot plan of sewers of the user’s property showing sewer and
pretreatment facility location;
      (6)   Details of wastewater pretreatment facilities; and
      (7)   Detains of system to prevent and control the losses of materials
through spills to the municipal sewer.
   (K)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of sewers
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods of the Examination of
Sewer and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, locations, times, durations and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the appropriate
authority.
   (L)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any owner
or concern whereby a waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the town for treatment.
   (M)   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage
destroys, uncovers, defaces or tampers with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the wastewater facilities. Any person(s) violating
this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 10) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.037 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The appropriate authority and other duly authorized employees of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing pertinent to discharge to community system in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
herein, the appropriate authority or duly authorized employees of the town
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
owner or concern, and the owner or concern shall be held harmless for injury or
death to the town employees, and the town shall indemnify the owner or concern
against loss or damage to its property by town employees and against liability
claims and demands form personal injury or property damage asserted against the
owner or concern and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except
as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the owner or concern to
maintain safe conditions as required in §
51.036(H).
   (C)   The appropriate authority and other duly authorized employee of the
town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the town hold a duly negotiated easement
for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 11) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.038 EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person, owner or concern using a sewer connection or connections
prior to and at the date of enactment of this chapter may be required by the
appropriate authority to maintain effect repairs, make replacement or otherwise
place any private sewer system lying on property owned or controlled by the
person, owner or concern in good working order free of:
      (1)   Leaks which allow ground water to enter the sewer;
      (2)   Leaks which allow sewage or other waste to enter the soil;
      (3)   Leaks which permit storm water or rain to enter the sewer; and/or
      (4)   Roof drains or storm drains discharging to the sewer.
   (B)   The sewer system including private sewers to existing building sewer
connections may be tested from time to time to reveal the sources of leakage on
detection of a leak or leaks considered by the appropriate authority to be of
importance in any of the categories herein; the appropriate authority shall
inform the person, owner or concern repair or replace the sewer in accordance
with the general requirements hereof; the repairs shall be effected to the
satisfaction of the appropriate authority within 60 days of the date of
notification. Failure to comply shall incur a penalty of $10 per month or part
thereof until the required repairs are made.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 12) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.039 SEWER CHARGES.
   (A)   Every new tap into the existing sewer mains or new installed in
extension of the town’s sewer system shall be installed by the town and shall
bear a “tapping fee” charge of $75 per dwelling utilizing the tap. The fee may
be altered from time to time by the town to account for increasing or
decreasing costs.
   (B)   In addition to the “tapping fee” in division (A) above, the town may,
if deemed necessary, institute a monthly sewer charge to defray the costs of
operating, maintaining and expanding the sewer system. The charge may be based
on the character of the user’s sewage and its volume or other basis that the
Board deems justified.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 13)
ADMINISTRATION GENERALLY
§ 51.050 WASTEWATER DISCHARGERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a town permit to any natural
outlet within the town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town and/or
to the POTW any wastewater, except as authorized by the appropriate authority
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.1) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The town shall require to be provided and operated at the user’s
own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems.
      (2)   The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user’s
premises, but the town may, when a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public street
or sidewalk area and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping
or parked vehicles.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near the sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   (1)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling
and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the town’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications.
      (2)   Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written
notification by the town.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.4)
§ 51.052 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The town shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this chapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the town or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purpose of inspection,
sampling, records examination or in the performance of any of their duties. The
town, approval authority and (where the NPDES state is the approval authority).
EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property the devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering
operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would require
proper identification and clearance before entry into his, her or their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the town,
approval authority and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purpose of performing their specific responsibilities.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.5)
§ 51.053 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the town shall be provided, operated and
maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedure shall be submitted to the town for review
and shall be acceptable to the town before construction of the facility. The
review of the plans and operation procedures will in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the town under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of
operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the town prior to the
user’s initiation of the changes.
   (C)   The town shall annually publish in the Mountaineer newspaper a list of
the users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment requirements or
standards at least once during the 12 previous months. The notification shall
also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the
same 12 months.
   (D)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available to officials of the EPA or approval authority upon request.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.6) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.054 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, questionnaires,
permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from inspections shall
be available to the public or other governmental agency with out restriction
unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the
satisfaction of the town that the release of the information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to
this chapter, the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit, state disposal system permit and/or the pretreatment programs;
provided, however, that, the portions of a report shall be available for use by
the state or any state agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings
involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information.
   (C)   Information accepted by the town as confidential, shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the town
until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.7)
WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS
§ 51.065 GENERAL PERMITS.
   All significant users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the POTW
shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or contributing
to the POTW. All existing significant users connected to or contributing to the
POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit within 180 days after the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.2.1)
§ 51.066 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution permit shall
complete and file with the town, an application in the form prescribed by the
town, and accompanied by a fee in an amount determined from time to time by the
Board of Aldermen. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater contribution
permit within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed
new users shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing
to the POTW. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location, (if different from the address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in §§
51.015 through
51.023, determined by a reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA
pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as
amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the town, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards
are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user
to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   (a)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to
meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not
be later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard.
         (b)   The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like).
            2.   No increment referred to in division (A)(9)(b)1. above shall
exceed nine months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
appropriate authority including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with
the increment of progress to be met on the date and, if not, the date on which
it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between the
progress reports to the appropriate authority.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and/or
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the town to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   The town will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the town may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.2.2)
§ 51.067 MODIFICATIONS.
   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to
the standards shall be revised to require compliance with the standard within
the time frame prescribed by the standard. Where a user, subject to a nation
categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application
for a wastewater contribution permit as required by §
51.066, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater contribution permit
shall submit to the appropriate authority within 180 days after the
promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard the
information required by §
51.066(A)(8) and (9).
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.2.3)
§ 51.068 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the town.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a community sewer;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
      (5)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for tests and
reporting schedule;
      (6)   Compliance schedules;
      (7)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports (see §§
51.085 and
51.086);
      (8)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the town, and affording town access
thereto;
      (9)   Requirements for notification of the town or any new introduction
of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character
of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system.
      (10)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges, as per §
51.101; and
      (11)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the town to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.2.4)
§ 51.069 DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or may be stated to
expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit re-issuance a
minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing permit. The
terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to modification by the town
during the term of the permit as limitations or requirements as identified
herein are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.2.5)
§ 51.070 TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the town. Any succeeding owner or user shall
also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.2.6)
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITTEE
§ 51.085 COMPLIANCE DATE REPORT.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater in to the POTW, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the appropriate
authority a report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in
the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment
standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user facility which are limited by the pretreatment
standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and,
if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user
into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements.
This statement shall be signed by and authorized representative of the
industrial user and certified to by a qualified professional.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.3.1)
§ 51.086 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORT.
   (A)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the compliance date
of the pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source, after
commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the appropriate
authority during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the appropriate authority, a
report indicating the nature and concentration, of pollutants in the effluent
which are limited by the pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall
include a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded
the average daily flow reported herein. At the discretion of the appropriate
authority and in consideration of the factors as local high or low flow rates,
holidays, budget cycles and the like, the appropriate authority may agree to
alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
   (B)   The appropriate authority may impose mass limitations on users which
are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements,
or in other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. Is
such cases, the report required by division (A) above shall indicate the mass
of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
These reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass where requested by the appropriate authority, of pollutants contained
therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The
frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment
standard. All analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established by the appropriate authority pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and
contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto or with any other test
procedures approved by the appropriate authority. Sampling shall be performed
in accordance with the techniques approved by the appropriate authority.
   (C)   Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include a sampling or analytical
technique for the pollutant in question sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the EPA publication,
Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for
Priority Pollutants, April, 1977, and amendments thereto, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the appropriate authority.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 4.3.2)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.100 HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The town may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when the suspension is necessary, in the opinion
of the town, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents
or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare
of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or causes the
town to violate any condition of its NPDES permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or
eliminates the contribution. In the event of a failure of the person to comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the town shall take such steps as deemed
necessary including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or
minimize damage to the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The town
shall reinstate the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater
treatment service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge.
A detailed written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the town within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 5.1)
§ 51.101 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of this chapter, or
applicable state and federal regulations, is subject to having his or her
permit revoked in accordance with the procedures of this subchapter:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (D)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 5.2)
§ 51.102 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the town finds that any user has violated or is violating this
chapter, wastewater contribution permit, or any prohibition, limitation of
requirements contained herein, the town may serve upon the person a written
notice stating the violation. Within 30 days of the date of the notice, a plan
for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the
user.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 5.3)
§ 51.103 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The town may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the Board of Aldermen why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the Board of
Aldermen regarding the violation, the reason why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show cause before the
Board of Aldermen why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   The Board of Aldermen may itself conduct the hearing and take the
evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the
assigned department to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Board of Aldermen notice of hearings
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in the hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Board of
Aldermen for action thereon.
   (C)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must be
under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so recorded, will be
made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing upon
payment of the usual charges thereof.
   (D)   After the Board of Aldermen has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been
installed on existing treatment facilities devices, or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 5.4)
§ 51.104 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes into the
town’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatments, or any order of the town, the Town Attorney may
commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the Circuit
Court of the county.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 5.5)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties. Any user who is found to have violated an order of
the Board of Aldermen or who willfully or negligently failed to comply with any
provision of the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder, shall
be fined not less than $100, nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day on
which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense. In addition to the penalties provided herein, the town may
recover reasonable attorneys’ fees, court costs, court reporters’ fees and
other expenses of litigation by appropriate suit at law against the person
found to have violated this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations and
permits issued hereunder.
   (B)   Falsifying information. Any person who knowingly makes any false
statements, representation or certification in any application, record, report,
plan or other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this
chapter or wastewater contribution permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or
knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than
$1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by both.
(Ord. passed 8- -2007, § 6)
CHAPTER 52: PRIVIES; SEPTIC TANKS
Section
   
52.01   Privies regulated
   
52.02   Septic tanks regulated
Cross-reference:
   Sewer required, see §
50.04
§ 52.01 PRIVIES REGULATED.
   No privy of any kind shall be permitted in the town where a town sewer is
reasonably accessible. When privies are permitted, they shall be constructed in
accordance with the regulations of the State Board of Health. Privies altered
or reconstructed shall also conform to these regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. III, § 1)
§ 52.02 SEPTIC TANKS REGULATED.
   Septic tanks may be allowed in areas where the town is in the process of
annexation until the sewer line is provided, or where sewer is not reasonably
accessible; provided, the tank is constructed in accordance with the
specifications of the State Board of Health.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. III, § 2)
CHAPTER 53: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
Collection
   
53.01   Definition
   
53.02   Garbage required to be promptly removed
   
53.03   Garbage cans; dumpsters
   
53.04   Wet garbage
   
53.05   Deposit of garbage in public places and on private property
   
53.06   Hour for placing cans
   
53.07   Dirt, mud and trash
COLLECTION
§ 53.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All refuse, animal, fruit and other vegetable matter, all tin cans,
glassware and crockery in which any matter has been put up or stored, and all
rags, waste paper, floor sweepings and other combustible refuse, excepting
building materials, scraps and tree trimmings.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. II, § 1)
§ 53.02 GARBAGE REQUIRED TO BE PROMPTLY REMOVED.
   No garbage that has become decayed or that shall otherwise be a menace to
health, or cleanliness shall be allowed to remain in any dwelling house, café,
restaurant, fruit stand, meat market, store or other building or on any
premises a longer time than shall be reasonably necessary to remove and deposit
the same in a can or cans, as hereinafter provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. II, § 2)
§ 53.03 GARBAGE CANS; DUMPSTERS.
   (A)   The occupant of every building, premises or place where garbage does
or may exist shall provide himself or herself with a garbage can made of
substantial galvanized iron or other nonrusting metal or plastic in which he or
she shall deposit all garbage existing at the place occupied by him or her. The
can shall be provided with handles and or bales and with a tight fitting cover
made of the same material as the can. All garbage cans shall be water tight.
They shall be of a size that can be conveniently handled by the garbage
collector (not to exceed in holding capacity more than 25 gallons). All garbage
cans shall be placed at the side of the street or alley way in a place that can
be conveniently reached by the garbage collector on the day set for collection
of same. All garbage cans shall be kept reasonably clean by the use of lye or
other effective cleaner.
   (B)   The large metal boxes commonly known as “dumpsters” are a type of
trash container, as the term is used herein. The dumpsters are, however,
referred to in this section by specific name for purposes of emphasis and
clarity. All garbage, waste materials, refuse, debris or other materials placed
in a dumpster shall be completely contained within the dumpster. No garbage,
waste materials, refuse, debris, cardboard or other materials which are not
recyclables shall be placed on the ground or area around the dumpster or shall
protrude from the top or sides of the dumpsters. Any recyclables that are
placed outside the dumpster must be kept in a manner not to cause health
hazards
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. II, § 3) (Ord. passed 10- -2002) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 WET GARBAGE.
   All wet garbage shall have the liquid drained off and shall be wrapped in
paper or other combustible material before it is placed in the garbage can,
thus preventing smell and the breeding of flies in summer and freezing and
adhesion to the can in winter.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. II, § 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.05 DEPOSIT OF GARBAGE IN PUBLIC PLACES AND ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw, place or deposit any garbage in any street, alley,
public place or private property within the town limits, except in garbage cans
or garbage vehicles as provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. II, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 HOUR FOR PLACING CANS.
   Garbage cans or similar containers containing garbage and trash for removal
shall be placed on the premises from which the same is to be removed at or
before 7:00 a.m. on the day scheduled for removal.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. II, § 7)
§ 53.07 DIRT, MUD AND TRASH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any property within
the town to cause, allow or permit mud, dirt, trash, debris or other materials
from his, her or their property to go on to any street, alley, sidewalk or
other public property in the town.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any builder, contractor, truck operator or
hauler to cause, allow or permit mud, dirt, trash, debris or other materials to
go on to any street, alley, sidewalk or other public property in the town.
   (C)   Should any owner, occupant, builder, contractor, truck operator or
hauler fail to remove or otherwise dispose of the mud, dirt, trash, debris or
other materials within 24 hours after notice by the town, the individual or
individuals shall be deemed in violation of this section, and each day
thereafter shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   This section becomes effective upon its adoption.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS AND OFFICERS
      
72.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
73.   STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
      
74.   VEHICLE OPERATION
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, law
enforcement vehicles and ambulances designated or authorized by the Board.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between two intersections next
adjacent to each other.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway when 50% or more of
frontage thereon for a distance of 300 feet or more is occupied by buildings in
use of business.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of a roadway ordinarily included within the
prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at intersections.
Any portion of a roadway distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines
or other markings on the surface.
   DRIVER. Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral curb
lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of two or more highways
which join one another at an angle whether or not one highway crosses the
other.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Every officer of the Haywood County Sheriff's
office or any officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make
arrests for violation of traffic regulations.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight savings time as may be in current use in the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this title placed or erected by authority of the
governing body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating
warning or guiding traffic.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   PARK. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise than
temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAYS. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting for fare.
   RESIDENCE DISTRICT. The territory contiguous to a highway not comprising a
business district when the frontage on the highway for a distance of 300 feet
or more is mainly occupied by dwellings or by dwellings and buildings in use
for business.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of a vehicle, whether occupied or not.
   STOP. When required, complete cessation of movement.
   STOP and/or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any stopping of a vehicle,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the direction of a police officer or traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purpose of vehicular traffic.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, street cars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purposes
of travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracts; provided that, for the
purpose of this title, a bicycle or a ridden animal shall be deemed a VEHICLE.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. I, § 1) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021)
CHAPTER 71: REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS AND OFFICERS
Section
   
71.01   Obedience to regulations
   
71.02   Obedience to law enforcement
   
71.03   Authority of law enforcement in special cases
   
71.04   Public employees to obey regulations
   
71.05   Exemptions for authorized emergency vehicles
   
71.06   Push carts, riding bicycles or animals to obey regulations
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO REGULATIONS.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any act forbidden, or fail to
perform any act required, in this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. II, § 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall willfully fail, or refuse, to comply with any lawful order,
or direction, by law enforcement.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. II, § 2) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 AUTHORITY OF LAW ENFORCEMENT IN SPECIAL CASES.
   In the event of a fire or other emergency, or when necessary to expedite
traffic or safeguard pedestrians, law enforcement may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. II, § 3) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by, or used in the service of, the United States Government, the state, county
or town and it shall be unlawful for any driver to violate any of the
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by
state statutes.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. II, § 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 EXEMPTIONS FOR AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined
in this title, except as follows. A driver operating a vehicle in any
emergency, except when otherwise directed by law enforcement, may:
      (1)   Park or stand, notwithstanding the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal, or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement, or turning,
in specified directions so long as he or she does not endanger life or
property.
   (B)   The foregoing exemptions shall not, however, protect the driver of any
vehicle from the consequences of his or her reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. II, § 5) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 PUSH CARTS, RIDING BICYCLES OR ANIMALS TO OBEY REGULATIONS.
   Every person propelling any push cart, or riding a bicycle or an animal,
upon a roadway, and every person driving any animal drawn vehicle, shall be
subject to the provisions of this title applicable to the driver of any
vehicle, except these provisions of this title which, by their nature, can have
no application.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. II, § 6)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
72.01   Obedience generally
   
72.02   No-turn signs and turning markers
   
72.03   No-parking zone and safety markers
   
72.04   Flashing signals
§ 72.01 OBEDIENCE GENERALLY.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the directions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto and placed in accordance with the
traffic ordinances of the town, unless otherwise directed by law enforcement,
subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle, in §
71.05.
   (B)   The provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, the sections shall be effective without signs being
placed to give notice thereof.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. III, § 1) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021)
§ 72.02 NO-TURN SIGNS AND TURNING MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed, erected or installed indicating that
no right or left or “U” turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey
the directions of any sign, and when authorized markers, buttons or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles traversing, or turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of the indications .
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. III, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 NO-PARKING ZONE AND SAFETY MARKERS.
   Whenever authorized signs or markings are placed, erected or installed
indicating no-parking zones or safety zones, no driver of a vehicle shall
disobey the regulations of such in connection therewith.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. III, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.04 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing yellow signals are used they shall require obedience by
vehicular traffic as follows: when a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection
or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. III, § 4)
CHAPTER 73: STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
Section
   
73.01   Vehicles not to stop in streets; exceptions
   
73.02   Vehicles not to obstruct passing other vehicles
   
73.03   Parking prohibited at all times in designated places
   
73.04   Parking time limited to two hours in designated places
   
73.05   Parking time limited to one hour in designated places
   
73.06   Parking parallel to curb unless otherwise directed
   
73.07   Vehicles backed up to curb
   
73.08   Left side to curb not permitted in business district
   
73.09   Parking within lines where provided
   
73.10   Parking at 45-degree angle
   
73.11   Unlawful parking
   
73.12   Standing or parking vehicles for primary purpose of advertising
   
73.13   Stopping, standing, parking prohibited in specific places
   
73.14   Moving other operator’s vehicle into restricted area prohibited
   
73.15   Parking in residential sections
   
73.16   Overnight parking prohibited in designated areas
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 VEHICLES NOT TO STOP IN STREETS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No vehicle shall stop in any street except for the purpose of parking as
prescribed in this title, unless the stop is made necessary by the approach of
fire apparatus, by the approach of a funeral or other procession which is given
the right-of-way, by the stopping of a public conveyance, by the lowering of
railway gates, by the giving of traffic signals, by the passing of some other
vehicle or a pedestrian, or by some emergency and in any case covered by these
exceptions the vehicle shall stop so as not to obstruct any footway, pedestrian
aisle, safety zone, crossing or street intersection if it can be avoided.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 1) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 VEHICLES NOT TO OBSTRUCT PASSING OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle shall so stand on any street as to interrupt, or interfere with,
the passage of public conveyances or other vehicles.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 2) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES IN DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice thereof, or the
curbing has been painted yellow in lieu of the signs, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described by the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 3) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 PARKING TIME LIMITED TO TWO HOURS IN DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed in each block giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than two hours at any time
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., on any day, except Sunday and
public holidays, upon any of the streets described by the town, and the
changing of the position of a vehicle from one point directly to another point,
within the same block, shall be deemed one continuous parking period.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 4) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 PARKING TIME LIMITED TO ONE HOUR IN DESIGNATED PLACES.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed in each block giving notice
thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than one hour at any time
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:30 p.m., of any day, except Sunday and
public holidays, upon any of the streets described by the town, and the
changing of the position of a vehicle from one point directly to another,
within the same block, shall be deemed as one continuous parking period.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 5) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 PARKING PARALLEL TO CURB UNLESS OTHERWISE DIRECTED.
   Where not otherwise indicated by this title, and where the street is not
marked to show how vehicles shall park, all vehicles shall park parallel to the
curb and not more than 12 inches therefrom.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 6) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 VEHICLES BACKED UP TO CURB.
   In no case shall a vehicle remain backed up to the curb, except when
actually loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 7) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 LEFT SIDE TO CURB NOT PERMITTED IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No vehicle shall stop with its left side to the curb in the business
district; except that, on one-way streets, vehicles shall stop headed in the
direction of traffic.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 8) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 PARKING WITHIN LINES WHERE PROVIDED.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for cars, the same shall be parked between the lines.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 9) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 PARKING AT 45-DEGREE ANGLE.
   Automobiles and other vehicles shall be parked at an angle of approximately
45 degrees with the curb on those streets, or parts of streets, described by
the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 10) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs that are
necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Storage thereof by garages, dealers or other persons when the storage
is not incident to the bona-fide use and operation of the automobile or other
vehicle; and
   (D)   Storage of any detached trailer or van, when the towing unit has been
disconnected, or for the purpose of transferring merchandise, or freight, from
one vehicle to another.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 11) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12 STANDING OR PARKING VEHICLES FOR PRIMARY PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 12) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13 STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of law
enforcement or a traffic-control device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On the sidewalk: (Exception being at the intersection of Mulberry
Street and Carolina Blvd. in front of Sherrill's Pioneer Restaurant. Parking on
the sidewalk is allowed only on the area up to the "NO PARKING BEYOND THIS
POINT" sign. No commercial vehicles or trucks will be allowed to park in this
area);
   (B)   On a crosswalk;
   (C)   Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-control
signal located at the side of a street or roadway;
   (D)   Along a side or opposite any street excavation or obstruction, when
the stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (E)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure or within any underpass
structure; and/or
   (F)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at the
edge or curb of a street.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 13) (Ord. passed 4-13-2017; Am. Ord. passed 3-
11-2021) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.14 MOVING OTHER OPERATOR’S VEHICLE INTO RESTRICTED AREA PROHIBITED.
   No person shall move a vehicle not owned by the person into any prohibited
area or sufficiently away from curb to make the distances unlawful.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. IV, § 14) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.15 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL SECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or corporation
to park a vehicle larger than a three-quarter ton truck on a public street in
the R-1 and R-2 Use Districts of the town, as established by
Chapter 151 of this code, between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, organization or corporation
to park a vehicle larger than a three-quarter ton truck on a public street in
the R-1 and R-2 Use District of the town, as established by
Chapter 151 of this code, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., except
for the purposes of loading and unloading.
(Ord. passed 4-14-1982) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 OVERNIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   When signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice hereof, no person
shall park a vehicle between the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on any day
within the right-of-way of the following public streets (owned or publicly
dedicated and maintained):
   (A)   Depot Street;
   (B)   Main Street between Broad Street and US 19/23 (Carolina Boulevard);
and
   (C)   Mulberry Street between Broad Street and US 19/23 (Carolina
Boulevard).
(Ord. passed 6-22-2023) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this code of ordinances regulating the
parking of a vehicle shall be guilty of an infraction, subject to the penalty
provisions of G.S. §§ 14-3.1 and 14.4, and shall be required to pay a penalty
of not more than $50.
(Ord. passed 4-14-1982)
CHAPTER 74: VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
Operation of Vehicles Generally
   
74.01   Stop before entering through street
   
74.02   Stop before entering certain street intersections
   
74.03   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
74.04   Driving through funeral processions
   
74.05   Limitations on turning around
   
74.06   Limitation on backing
   
74.07   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
74.08   Vehicle shall not be driven on sidewalk
   
74.09   Clinging to moving vehicles
   
74.10   Riding on handlebars prohibited
   
74.11   Riding on sidewalks or without hands on handlebars prohibited
   
74.12   Use of coaster, rollerskates, skateboards and similar devices
restricted
   
74.13   Lights on parked vehicles
   
74.14   Moving cars from parked positions
   
74.15   Speed limits
   
74.16   Driving on roadways laned for traffic
Miscellaneous Regulations; Prohibited Acts
   
74.30   Boarding or alighting from public conveyances or other vehicles
   
74.31   Unlawful riding
   
74.32   Entering, jumping on or riding vehicles without permission
   
74.33   Persons riding must stay inside
   
74.34   No more than three persons permitted in front seat
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 91
   Taxicabs, see
Ch. 111
OPERATION OF VEHICLES GENERALLY
§ 74.01 STOP BEFORE ENTERING THROUGH STREET.
   Those streets and parts of streets, described by the town, are hereby
declared to be through streets for the purpose of this section. When stop signs
are placed, erected or installed upon highways intersecting a through street at
the entrance thereto, or at the entrance to any intersection, every driver of a
vehicle shall stop in obedience to the signs before entering the intersection
and shall not proceed into, or across, the through street until he or she has
first determined that no conflict with traffic will be involved.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.02 STOP BEFORE ENTERING CERTAIN STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   Those intersections described by the town are hereby declared to be stop
intersections when entered from the streets first named, and when stop signs
are placed, erected or installed at the intersection every driver of a vehicle
shall stop in obedience to the signs before entering the intersection, and
shall not proceed into, or across, the through street until he or she has first
determined that no conflict will be involved.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.03 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk, to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.04 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   No vehicle shall be driven through a funeral procession, except Fire
Department vehicles, law enforcement and ambulances, when the same are
responding to calls.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 4) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.05 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   No driver shall turn any vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
in the Business District, except at street intersections.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.06 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same into any intersection or
over a crosswalk and shall not in any event, or at any place, back a vehicle
unless the movement can be made in safety, and he or she shall have given ample
warning to those who may be behind, by hand and horn or other signal.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.07 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or into the
sidewalk areas extending across the alleyway and, upon entering the roadway, he
or she shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.08 VEHICLE SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.09 CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLES.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, rollerskates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach the same, or himself or herself, to any
public conveyance, or moving vehicle upon the roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.10 RIDING ON HANDLEBARS PROHIBITED.
   The operator of motorcycles or bicycles, when upon a street, shall not carry
any person upon the handlebars, frame or tank of any vehicle, nor shall any
person so ride upon any vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.11 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS OR WITHOUT HANDS ON HANDLEBARS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall ride a bicycle or motorcycle on any street without having
his or her hands upon the handlebars, nor shall any person ride a bicycle upon
any sidewalk or walkway within the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.12 USE OF COASTER, ROLLERSKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND SIMILAR DEVICES
RESTRICTED.
   No person upon rollerskates, skateboards, or riding in, or by means of, any
coaster, toy vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.13 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   The displaying of lights upon a vehicle, when lawfully parked at night upon
a street of the town in accordance with this subchapter, shall not be required
when there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance of 200
feet upon the street.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.14 MOVING CARS FROM PARKED POSITIONS.
   Cars parked shall move out in the direction headed, or if they are parked at
an angle with the curb they shall back out on that angle until they have
cleared the other cars and shall then proceed in the direction they are most
nearly headed in.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.15 SPEED LIMIT.
   (A)   A vehicle may be operated on any street of the town, designated
elsewhere in this subchapter as a business section, at a rate of speed not
exceeding 20 mph; provided, however, that, at no time shall the speed be
greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   (B)   The speed limit shall be set by the Board of Aldermen on town-
maintained streets. Speed limits on state highways shall be regulated by the
state Department of Transportation.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.16 DRIVING ON ROADWAYS LANED FOR TRAFFIC.
   All vehicles operated on any roadway which has been clearly marked with
lanes for traffic shall be driven as nearly as practical entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from the lane until the driver has first
ascertained that the movement can be made with safety.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. V, § 16) Penalty, see §
10.99
MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS; PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 74.30 BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM PUBLIC CONVEYANCES OR OTHER VEHICLES.
   No person shall board or alight from any public conveyance or other vehicle,
while the conveyance or vehicle is in motion.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. VI, § 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.31 UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   No person shall ride on any public conveyance, vehicle or any portion
thereof, not designed or intended, for the use of passengers. This provision
shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or
to persons riding within truck bodies in spaces intended for merchandise.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. VI, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.32 ENTERING, JUMPING ON OR RIDING VEHICLES WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall enter, jump on or ride any automobile, or other vehicle,
without the consent of the owner or driver.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. VI, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.33 PERSONS RIDING MUST STAY INSIDE.
   No person when riding shall allow any part of his or her body to protrude
beyond the limits of the vehicle in which he or she is riding, except to give
the signals as are be law required and no person shall hang on to any vehicle
whatsoever.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. VI, § 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.34 NO MORE THAN THREE PERSONS PERMITTED IN FRONT SEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or the person in charge of any motor
vehicle to permit more than three persons (including driver) to ride in the
front or driver’s seat of a motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, Ch. F, Art. VI, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; DISEASE PREVENTION
      
93.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
94.   NUISANCES
      
95.   TOWN PARKS
      
96.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 90: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Permit required for bonfire
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 94
   Required Obedience to Regulations and Officers, see
Ch. 71
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of fire limits; restrictions, see G.S. § 160D-1128
   Fireworks, see G.S. §§ 14-410 et seq.
   Regulation of explosive, inflammable substances, see G.S. § 160A-183
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR BONFIRE.
   No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire, or shall knowingly furnish
the material for any fire, or authorize any fire to be kindled or maintained on
or in any street avenue, road or lane or public ground or upon any private lot
within the limits of the town unless a written permit so to do shall have first
been secured from the Board of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, Ch. C, Art. II, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Damaging Streets and Sidewalks
   
91.01   Permits to dig in streets
   
91.02   Sidewalk construction
   
91.03   Street repair
   
91.04   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
91.05   Streets not to be damaged
   
91.06   House moving
   
91.07   Damage to bridges and culverts
   
91.08   Damage to lights and signs
   
91.09   Grass cuttings on public street; cutting grass and weeds
Obstructing Streets and Sidewalks
   
91.20   Assembly on sidewalk
   
91.21   Display of goods prohibited
   
91.22   Placing objects on streets and sidewalks
   
91.23   Construction near sidewalk
   
91.24   Sheds and awnings
Use and Cleanliness
   
91.35   Throwing or burning trash on street prohibited
   
91.36   Tree trimmings
   
91.37   Snow and ice removal
   
91.38   Bicycles and skateboards on sidewalks prohibited
   
91.39   Playing ball on sidewalks prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Public Works, see Title V
   Town Parks, see
Ch. 95
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
Statutory reference:
   General authority over streets, sidewalks and other public ways, see G.S. §
160A-296
DAMAGING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 91.01 PERMITS TO DIG IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dig any hole,
ditch or excavation of any kind whatsoever, on any street in the town without
first securing a permit therefor in writing from the Town Administrator.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.02 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or
corporation of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from
the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 STREET REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation, who shall open or
dig a ditch, trench or hole in any street, public alley or sidewalk of the
town, to put the street, public alley or sidewalk in as good condition in all
respects as it was before, and every person, firm or corporation violating or
failing to observe the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation making any
excavation for any purpose whatsoever in any of the streets or sidewalks to
fail to securely cover the excavations with plank or place ropes around the
same three feet from the ground or shall fall to place a sufficient number of
red lights around the excavation before dark and to keep the light burning all
night every night the excavations shall be open.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag, or
run, or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine,
machine or tool upon any asphalt, bithulitic, warrenite or other permanently
paved street of the town which shall be liable, in any way to injure or cut the
surface thereof.
   (B)   It shall also be unlawful to injure any dirt street in the same
manner.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any existing structure greater than 14 feet or any
house or building upon or across the public streets or sidewalks without
written consent of the Board of Aldermen and the deposit of a good and
sufficient bond as set by the Board of Aldermen to cover damage done to the
streets or sidewalks or to any property or any person.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 DAMAGE TO BRIDGES AND CULVERTS.
   No person shall injure or misplace any part of any bridge, culvert, ditch
and drain or other property belonging to or used by the town, or shall place
any obstruction in any culvert, ditch or drain, to prevent the free flow of
water on or over the streets of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 DAMAGE TO LIGHTS AND SIGNS.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove or paint upon or deface any
sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal or bulletin board or other
municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks, except employees of the town
in performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. I, § 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 GRASS CUTTINGS ON PUBLIC STREET; CUTTING GRASS AND WEEDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or homeowner to blow, scatter or place
grass cuttings on any public street in the town without cleaning up the grass
cuttings.
   (A)   Cutting weeds, grass, other vegetation. Every person owning or
occupying any lot shall cut or cause to be cut and removed all weeds, grass or
other rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation; provided that, cutting and
removing the weeds, grass and vegetation shall be at a height no greater than
nine inches or once per month whichever comes first.
   (B)   Notification of violation: removal by town. If the provisions of this
section are not complied with, the town staff shall serve written notice upon
the owner, lessee or occupant or any person having the care or control of any
lot to comply with the provisions of this section. If the person upon whom the
notice is served fails, neglects or refuses to cut and remove or to cause to be
cut and removed the weeds, grass or other vegetation within ten days after
receiving the notice or if the owner or his or her representative can not be
found in the town, the Street Superintendent shall cause the weeds, grass and
other vegetation to be cut and removed.
   (C)   Assessment of cost of removal. The actual cost of the cutting and
removing the weeds, grass or other vegetation by the town, plus 5% for
inspection and additional costs in connection therewith, shall be certified by
the Street Superintendent to be a lien upon the property upon which the weeds,
grass and other vegetation were located. The cost shall be added to the taxes
next to be assessed and levied upon the lot, shall bear interest at the same
rate as taxes and shall be collected and enforced by the same officer and in
the same manner as taxes.
(Ord. passed 6-14-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
OBSTRUCTING STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
§ 91.20 ASSEMBLY ON SIDEWALK.
   All persons are forbidden from assembling or collection and standing so as
to obstruct any sidewalk or street and all persons so collecting and standing
shall disperse and move upon the demand of any law enforcement officer.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. II, § 1) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.21 DISPLAY OF GOODS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place for display or sale any goods, wares or merchandise of
any kind upon the sidewalks of the town, which shall extend out on the
sidewalks.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. II, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.22 PLACING OBJECTS ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   No brick, stone or wood or other substances obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the alley
ways, streets or other routes, of the town, nor shall any person place on or in
any of the streets, sidewalks or alley ways of the town any boxes, crated,
casks or barrels of any description, or any other obstruction of any kind;
provided that, any person erecting a building, may, with permission, place
building material for immediate use on the streets in a way as to not interfere
with the usual traffic.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. II, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.23 CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. II, § 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.24 SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   No person shall erect or repair over any sidewalk or street any wooden shed
or awning or any wooden shed for the support of an awning. If any person shall
violate this section, then each day that the above forbidden structure shall
remain after notice shall constitute a separate violation; provided that, this
shall not be construed to prevent the erection over the sidewalk of cloth or
metal awnings supported upon metallic frames firmly suspended from the building
and at least seven feet above the level of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. II, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
USE AND CLEANLINESS
§ 91.35 THROWING OR BURNING TRASH ON STREET PROHIBITED.
   No paper, straw, lemon peel, banana peel, watermelon rind or any trash of
any kind shall be thrown or swept upon any sidewalk or street of the town, nor
shall any trash, refuse or rubbish be burned thereon.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. III, § 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.36 TREE TRIMMINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or allow to be placed any tree
trimmings or shrubbery on any street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. III, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.37 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   Every occupant of a store building in front of which the sidewalk is paved
with stone, brick, asphalt or cement, shall remove snow, ice or other
obstructions from the sidewalk at the earliest possible time and as soon as
weather permits.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. III, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.38 BICYCLES AND SKATEBOARDS ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle or skateboard on any
sidewalk in the town (applicable to business district only).
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. III, § 4) (Ord. passed 9-13-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.39 PLAYING BALL ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall play ball or bat or catch ball on any street of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. D, Art. III, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; DISEASE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Enforcement
   
92.02   Unlawful to hinder officer or assistants
   
92.03   Right to enter
   
92.04   Property kept clean
   
92.05   Human waste
   
92.06   Stagnant water
   
92.07   Sale of food; eating establishments
   
92.08   Debris from new construction
§ 92.01 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of this chapter shall be under the supervision of the Town
Administrator and the County Health Officer.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 1)
§ 92.02 UNLAWFUL TO HINDER OFFICER OR ASSISTANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the Town
Administrator or Health Officer or any of his or her assistants in the lawful
discharge of their duties.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 RIGHT TO ENTER.
   The Town Administrator or Health Officer or any of his or her assistants
shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any premises for the
purpose of making the inspections or investigations, as required by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 3)
§ 92.04 PROPERTY KEPT CLEAN.
   (A)   Owners or occupant of premises required to keep the same clean.
      (1)   Every person owning or occupying any premises in the corporate
limits shall keep the premises free from noxious weeds, trash and all other
forms of animal or vegetable refuse which may be dangerous or prejudicial to
the public health, or which may constitute a public nuisance. No owner or
occupant of any premises shall bury therein any animal or vegetable matter
which, upon decaying, may become dangerous or prejudicial to the public health,
or may constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The large metal boxes commonly known as dumpsters are a type of
trash container, as the term is used herein. The dumpsters are, however,
referred to in this section by specific name for purposes of emphasis and
clarity.
      (3)   All garbage, waste materials, refuse, debris, cardboard or other
materials placed in a dumpster, shall be completely contained within the
dumpster. No garbage, waste materials, refuse, debris, cardboard or other
materials shall be placed on the ground or area around the dumpster or shall
protrude from the top or sides of the dumpsters.
   (B)   Person violating section to be notified.
      (1)   If any person shall violate the provisions of division (A) above,
it shall be the duty of law enforcement or the town staff to give notice to the
owner or person in possession of the premises that within 15 days, or sooner
from the date of the notice, all weeds, trash and other offensive animal or
vegetable matter, be removed from the lot.
      (2)   Should any owner or occupant fail to comply with notice, law
enforcement shall proceed to have removed, and the owner or occupant shall be
responsible to the town for the cost thereof.
   (C)   Weeds; time for cutting.
      (1)   Every owner or person in possession of a vacant lot, within the
corporate limits, also excluding agriculture use, shall shrub down, within four
inches of the ground, all weeds, grass or other noxious growth from the lot at
least twice each year; the first not later than June 15 and the second not
later than August 15 of each and every year. The vacant lots purchased through
the Hazard Mitigation program must comply with §
91.09 of this code.
      (2)   If the weeds or other noxious growth are not cut in compliance with
this section, the Street Superintendent shall proceed to have the weeds or
other noxious growth cut, and the owner or person in possession of the lot,
shall be responsible to the town for the cost thereof.
      (3)   Assessment of cost removal will be as follows: the Town of Clyde
will charge $40 per hour per man if we mow, plus 5% for inspection and
additional costs in connection therewith. The owner will be notified by
certified mail that they have 30 days to pay the costs. At the end of 30 days
if the owner fails to comply with payment, such cost shall be added to the
taxes next to be assessed and levied upon such lot. This amount will be subject
to the same interest and shall be collected and enforced by the same officer
and in the same manner as taxes.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 4) (Ord. passed 8-9-2006; Am. Ord. passed - -;
Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05 HUMAN WASTE.
   No person shall urinate or deposit any human waste of any kind on any
street, lot or premises, except in approved sanitary facilities.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06 STAGNANT WATER.
   No person or occupant of any property shall allow stagnant water to
accumulate or remain in cellars or anywhere on his, her or their property.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07 SALE OF FOOD; EATING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All persons, firms or corporations selling food of any kind or serving
prepared meals shall comply with all requirements pertaining thereto of the
State Board of Health.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.08 DEBRIS FROM NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All refuse, lumber and debris, remaining both as a result of the repair of
any new building, or the erection and completion of any new buildings, shall be
removed by the property owner within ten days from the completion of the
aforesaid work.
(Prior Code, Ch. G, Art. I, § 8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Keeping animals under restraint
   
93.03   Cruelty to animals
   
93.04   Confinement, muzzling and control of vicious or dangerous animals
   
93.05   Animals creating a nuisance
   
93.06   Dog identification tag
   
93.07   Interference with enforcement
   
93.08   Inherently dangerous wild animals
   
93.09   Prohibition against giveaways in public places
Rabies Control
   
93.20   Compliance with state law
   
93.21   Inoculation of dogs and cats
   
93.22   Evidence of inoculation of dogs and cats
   
93.23   Report and confinement of animals biting persons or showing symptoms of
rabies
   
93.24   Destruction or confinement of animal bitten by rabid animal
   
93.25   Area-wide emergency quarantine
   
93.26   Postmortem diagnosis
   
93.27   Unlawful killing, releasing and the like of certain animals
   
93.28   Failure to surrender animal for quarantine or destruction
   
93.29   State laws; rabies
Impoundment
   
93.40   General provisions
   
93.41   Notice to owner
   
93.42   Redemption by owner
   
93.43   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animal
   
93.44   Procedure with respect to redemption or adoption of unvaccinated dogs
and cats
   
93.45   Suspected rabid animals not to be redeemed or adopted
   
93.46   Destruction of wounded or diseased animals
   
93.47   Destruction of animals that cannot be seized by reasonable means
Administration
   
93.60   Animal Control Officer
   
93.61   Animal Control Advisory Committee
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake, desert or give up an animal previously under the
custody or possession of a person without having secured another owner or
custodian or by failing to make reasonable arrangements for adequate care.
   ABUSE. Willful injury to or mistreatment of a domesticated animal, but not
to include the legal euthanization of an animal or the slaughtering of an
animal raised to be used for food or clothing by humane and legal methods.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision at suitable intervals, not to exceed 24 hours,
of a quantity of wholesome foodstuff suitable for the species and age,
sufficient to maintain the animal’s health and well being, provided in sanitary
manner.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structure intended for an animal’s protection from
inclement weather or sun, which consists of at least three sides, a floor and a
roof. The structure is to be constructed of durable fiber, wood, plastic or
other non-metallic material of adequate insulate value that allows an animal to
maintain its body heat. Structures for all animals must be large enough to
allow all animals on the premises to be housed, to turn around, lie down and
stretch comfortably. The walls must keep out rain, sleet and snow. This shall
not exclude the use of metallic structures used as transportation and temporary
shelter.
   ADEQUATE WATER. Constant access to a supply of liquid, unfrozen, water that
is clean, fresh and visibly free of debris and organic material, provided in a
sanitary manner. Water containers must be of sufficient size and placed to
prevent accidental spilling by weather conditions or animal activity.
   ADMINISTRATIVE WARRANT. A warrant issued by any magistrate of the general
court of justice, judge, clerk or assistant or deputy clerk of any court of
record whose territorial jurisdiction encompasses the property to be inspected
upon presentation of affidavit or other evidence provided to the satisfaction
of the issuing officer that there is probable cause to believe that there is a
condition, object, activity or circumstance legally justifying an inspection of
the property described in that affidavit and issued pursuant to the provisions
of G.S. § 15-27.2, or any other appropriate statute authorizing a search.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person or persons employed by the county as its
enforcement officer(s). The ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER is designated the County
Rabies Inspector.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for small animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   AT LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be at large when it is off the
property of its owner and not under the control of a competent person.
   COMPANION ANIMAL. An animal kept for companionship and enjoyment.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been exposed to rabies within the meaning
of this chapter if it has been bitten by, or exposed to, any animal known or
suspected to have been infected with rabies.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS. The term applies to the following animals
which are inherently dangerous to persons or property and which include: all
felines, other than the domestic house cats (including lions, tigers and
leopards), nonhuman primates, bears, wolves, coyotes, reptiles (poisonous or
constricting and giant). In order to properly administer the provisions of this
chapter, the Board may add to or remove from the classification of wild animal
any bird, mammal, reptile, aquatic and amphibious forms, or other members of
the animal kingdom. Additions to or deletions from the animals regulated herein
may be made only if the Board determines, after receiving evidence that the
animals, because of habit, mode of life or natural instinct are either capable
or incapable of being domesticated, requires the exercise of art, force or
skill to keep them safely in subjection, and would or would not create a
reasonable likelihood of hazard to the public.
   KENNEL, DEALER, BREEDER or PET SHOP. Any person, groups of persons,
partnership or corporation engaged in buying, selling, breeding or boarding
animals for profit.
   LIVESTOCK. Including, but not limited to, equine, bovine, sheep, goats.
   MICROCHIP. An electronic identification device approved by the Animal
Control Officer which is intended to be implanted within an animal.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male animal which has had its gonads (testicles)
surgically removed.
   OWNER.
      (1)   Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership or corporation
owning, keeping, having charge of, sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking
care of any animal.
      (2)   The OWNER is responsible for the care, actions and behavior of his
or her animals.
   PET. A domesticated animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   POTENTIALLY VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any dog or other animal with a
known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause
injury, or to threaten otherwise the safety of humans or domestic animals
designated pursuant to G.S. § 67-4.1.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under restraint within the meaning of this chapter
if it is:
      (1)   Controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like device;
      (2)   To be under the physical control of the owner or animal handler and
is obedient to that person’s commands;
      (3)   On or within a vehicle being driven or parked;
      (4)   Within a secure enclosure (such as a fence); or
      (5)   Within the property limits of its owner or keeper.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. Any guide dog, signal dog or other animal individually
trained to work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a
disability, including, but not limited to, guiding individuals with impaired
vision, alerting individuals with impaired hearing to intruders or sounds,
providing minimal protection or rescue work, pulling a wheelchair or fetching
dropped items.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female animal which has had its gonads (ovaries)
surgically removed.
   SPORT ANIMALS. Animals kept for legalized hunting.
   STRAY. Any domestic animal not under restraint and found off the property of
its owner.
   TETHER. A means by which an animal is fastened so that it can range within a
reasonable radius.
   VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL. A dangerous animal or potentially dangerous
animal as defined by G.S. § 67-4.1(a)(1) and (2), subject to the exceptions of
G.S. § 67-4.1(b), including, but not limited to, any dog in the following
categories:
      (1)   Any dog that has either made an unprovoked attack on a human, or
has, when unprovoked, chased or shown aggressive behavior in a menacing fashion
or in an apparent attitude of attack toward a human upon the streets, sidewalks
or any public or private property;
      (2)   Any dog that has attacked farm stock or other pets;
      (3)   Any dog that has been quarantined pursuant to §
93.23 of this chapter and has been declared to be a vicious or dangerous animal
by the Animal Control Officer;
      (4)   Any dog that has been declared to be a vicious or dangerous animal
pursuant to §
93.05 of this chapter;
      (5)   Any dog, not owned by a governmental or law enforcement units, used
primarily to guard public or private property;
      (6)   Any dog that is owned or harbored, at least in part, for the
purpose of dog fighting, or any dog trained for dog fighting; and
      (7)   Any dog that is found by the staff of the Animal Shelter, or
pursuant to the observation or evaluation provisions of §
93.43(F)(2) or (3), to have demonstrated a propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack unprovoked, or to otherwise threaten the safety of human beings or
domestic animals.
   WORKING ANIMALS. Animals that are used to herd and/or provide protection for
flocks and herds of livestock.
(Prior Code, § 1.01)
§ 93.02 KEEPING ANIMALS UNDER RESTRAINT.
   All animals subject to this chapter must be kept under restraint, as defined
in §
93.02; provided that, animals hunting with a competent person shall not be in
violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1.02)
§ 93.03 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, tease, bait, torture,
deprive of necessary sustenance or adequate shelter, cruelly beat, needlessly
mutilate or kill, wound, injure, poison, abandon or subject to conditions
detrimental to its health or general welfare an animal, or to cause or procure
the action.
   (B)   The words TORTURE and TORMENT shall be held to include every act,
omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is
caused or permitted; but the terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful
shooting or slaughtering of birds, deer and other game or domestic animals for
the primary purpose of providing food for human or animal consumption; nor to
prohibit the Animal Control Officer or authorized agents or veterinarians from
destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or keeper to fail to provide his
or her animals with adequate food, water, shelter, a clean living environment
free of debris and excessive waste, veterinary care when needed to prevent
suffering and with humane care and treatment.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or be a spectator at
any dog fight or cock fight.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote, encourage, engage
in or do any act toward the furtherance of any act of cruelty to an animal.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to abandon the animal, except to relinquish
the animal to the Animal Shelter during normal business hours in accordance
with policies and procedures then in effect at the Animal Shelter.
      (5)   The following has been indented for clarity.
         (a)   If the Department finds that an animal has been abandoned, the
animal may be impounded.
         (b)   If an animal has been abandoned in a house or within a fenced
area, the Department must make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
manager of the property. If the property owner or manager is not the animal
owner, then the Department shall secure permission of the owner or manager to
remove the animal. If the property owner is also the animal owner and this
individual property owner cannot be located, the Department shall secure an
appropriate warrant to seize the animal. An animal seized pursuant to this
section shall be impounded at the direction of the Animal Control Officer.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or confine an animal
or allow an animal to be placed or confined in a motor vehicle under the
conditions or for a period of time as to endanger the health or well-being of
the animal due to temperature, lack of food or drink or other conditions as may
reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability or death. After making a
reasonable effort to find the driver of a vehicle in which an animal is
confined, the Animal Control Officer, in the presence of a law enforcement
officer, may use the least intrusive means to enter the vehicle if necessary to
remove the animal, where reasonable cause exists to believe the animal may die
if not immediately removed. The Animal Control Officer removing the animal
shall then impound the animal and leave in a prominent place on the motor
vehicle a written notice of the animal’s impoundment, a brief description of
the animal and where and when the animal may be reclaimed.
      (7)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally strike an
animal with an automobile or other vehicle causing injury or death.
      (8)   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring or killing a domestic
animal by striking it with an automobile or other vehicle to fail to notify the
owner of the animal, if ownership information is available. If ownership
information is not available, Animal Control or law enforcement must be
notified.
      (9)   Standard for chaining:
         (a)   No dog may be chained outdoors without a chain or cable of
suitable length designed and placed to prevent choking or strangulation, with
the area free of obstacles so that the animal may have access to food, water
and shelter.
         (b)   No dog may be restrained using a chain or cable, grossly in
excess of the size necessary to restrain the dog safely as determined by the
Animal Control Officer.
      (10)   It shall be unlawful for an owner, keeper, possessor or caretaker
to hoard companion animals. The individual shall be considered a companion
animal hoarder if they:
         (a)   Exhibit the inability to provide even minimal standards of
nutrition, sanitation, shelter and veterinary care, with this neglect often
resulting in starvation, illness and death;
         (b)   Keeps the companion animals in severely overcrowded environment;
and
         (c)   Displays an inability to recognize or understand the nature of
or has reckless disregard for the conditions under which the companion animals
are living and the deleterious impact they have on the companion animals’ and
owner’s health and well-being.
      (11)   All reasonable and customary efforts should be made to secure
proper veterinary care to prevent animal suffering.
      (12)   Any animal found to be treated in a manner constituting a
violation of this chapter shall be subject to immediate seizure by the Animal
Control Officer so that suitable care may be provided for the animal.
(Prior Code, § 1.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   County authority to prohibit the abuse of animals, see G.S. § 153A-127
§ 93.04 CONFINEMENT, MUZZLING AND CONTROL OF VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious or dangerous
animal within the county, unless it is confined within a secure building or
enclosure as determined by the Animal Control Officer, or unless it is securely
muzzled and under control by a competent person who, by means of a chain, has
the animal firmly under control at all times. The premises on which any animal
under this section is confined shall be clearly marked with a warning sign.
   (B)   Following are additional requirements or precautions which shall be
taken by owners of vicious or dangerous animals when directed by the Animal
Control Officers, to wit:
      (1)   Whenever outside its building or enclosure, but while on the
owner’s property, a vicious or dangerous animal must be attended by the owner
and restrained by a secure collar and leash of sufficient strength to prevent
escape. No vicious or dangerous animal shall be chained, tethered or otherwise
tied to any inanimate object, such as a tree, post or building outside of its
own building or enclosure.
      (2)   For owners of vicious or dangerous animals who maintain their
animals out of doors, a portion of the owner’s property shall be fenced with a
perimeter or area fence. Within this perimeter or area fence, the vicious or
dangerous animal must be humanely confined inside a pen or kennel of adequate
size. The pen or kennel may not share common fencing with the area or perimeter
fence. The kennel or pen must have secure sides; a secure top attached to all
sides; and sides either buried two feet under the ground, sunken into a
concrete pad or securely attached to a wire bottom. The gate to the kennel must
be locked with a padlock or combination type lock.
      (3)   All animals subject to this section are required to be micro
chipped at the owner’s expense within a period not to exceed two weeks from the
time the animal is deemed to be subject to this section.
   (C)   (1)   If an owner or custodian of an animal subject to this section
does not comply with these requirements within a period of two weeks after the
receipt of written notice from the Animal Control Officer; or if death or
personal injury with medical expenses exceeding $300 have resulted from an
unprovoked attack by an animal; or if an animal has been previously declared to
be a potentially vicious or dangerous animal or a vicious and dangerous animal,
the animal shall be immediately euthanized under the supervision of the Animal
Control Officer.
      (2)   Should the Animal Control Officer find that an animal has attacked
a person causing bodily harm without being teased, molested, provoked, beaten,
tortured or otherwise harmed, he or she shall report same to the County Health
Director, as per G.S. § 130A-200.
      (3)   The Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner of an animal,
which he or she has determined to be vicious or dangerous following an
investigation, that the provisions of this chapter shall apply to the animal.
The owner of the animal shall either release same to the Animal Control Officer
for destruction as provided elsewhere in this chapter, or keep the animal
confined, as provided in §
93.04 of this chapter.
   (D)   The Animal Control Officer can declare an animal to be a potentially
vicious or dangerous animal following an investigation and take any action
authorized by this chapter including requiring compliance with any of those
procedures set forth under §
93.04(C) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1.04) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   County authority to control and regulate the possession of dangerous
animals, see G.S. §§ 67-4.5 and 153A-131
§ 93.05 ANIMALS CREATING A NUISANCE.
   (A)   The keeping of any companion, working or sport animal in a manner or
in the numbers as to constitute a public nuisance is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a PUBLIC NUISANCE shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The keeping of any companion, working or sport animal that causes
unsightly litter or foul or offensive odors of any animal which remain upon or
emanate from the property of the owner;
      (2)   The keeping of any companion, sport or working animal which
frequently is at large, including any animal that habitually or repeatedly
chases, snaps at, attacks or barks at pedestrians, joggers, animals walked on a
leash, bicycles or other vehicles;
      (3)   The keeping, possession or harboring of any companion, sport or
working animal which is dangerous to persons or property;
      (4)   Allowing or permitting a companion, working or sport animal to
damage the property of anyone other than its owner, including, but not limited
to, turning over garbage containers or damaging gardens, flowers or vegetables,
or defecating upon the property of another; and/or
      (5)   Failing to confine a female dog or cat while in heat in a secure
enclosure in a manner that will prevent the animal from coming into physical
contact with a male of its species; provided, this section shall not be
construed to prohibit the intentional breeding of animals within a securely
enclosed area on the premises of the owner of the animal which is being bred.
   (C)   The owner may be issued a citation after sufficient investigation by
the Animal Control Officer that an animal has created a nuisance as set forth
by this section and may be instructed to confine the animal as provided in §
93.04 of the chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1.05) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DOG IDENTIFICATION TAG.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide the dog with
a metal identification tag upon which is inscribed the dog’s owner’s name,
address and telephone number in letters at least one-eighth inch high and
securely attached to the collar.
   (B)   (1)   It shall also be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide
the dog with a strong and serviceable collar or harness to which a current
identification tag described under this section is securely attached.
      (2)   The collar or harness, with the attached identification tag, must
be worn at all times, except during the time the dog is performing at shows,
obedience trials, tracking tests, field trials, schools or other events
sanctioned and supervised by a recognized organization, or is engaged in
hunting or some other activity in which a collar might endanger the dog’s
safety.
(Prior Code, § 1.06) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
molest the Animal Control Officer or the Animal Advisory Board’s agents or
veterinarians in the performance of any duty authorized by this chapter, or to
seek to release any animal in the custody of the agents, except as otherwise
specifically provided.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under this section that the
interference alleged consisted of speech only.
(Prior Code, § 1.07) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 INHERENTLY DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or other person to possess or
harbor an inherently dangerous wild animal within the county.
   (B)   The following shall be exempt from this chapter: bona fide traveling
circuses licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture shall be exempt from
this section.
   (C)   The owner of any inherently dangerous wild animal shall reimburse the
county for all costs incurred while attempting to recapture any escaped
inherently dangerous wild animal. If the animal is sheltered or euthanized by
Animal Control, the owner shall also pay these costs.
(Prior Code, § 1.09) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.09 PROHIBITION AGAINST GIVEAWAYS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful to display any animal in a public place for the purpose
of selling or giving the animal away. This section does not apply to the
display of animals by and within a pet shop, commercial kennel or
veterinarian’s office. Only animal welfare organizations may display animals
for adoption in a public place; provided that, the organization is in
possession of a permit issued at no charge by the Animal Control Director or
his or her designees. In such case, any animal made available for adoption must
be no less than two months of age.
(Prior Code, § 1.10) Penalty, see §
93.99
RABIES CONTROL
§ 93.20 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner or other person to fail to
comply with the state laws relating to the control of rabies.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to supplement the state laws by
providing a procedure for the enforcement of state laws relating to rabies
control, in addition to the criminal penalties provided by state law.
(Prior Code, § 1.20) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Rabies control, see G.S. § 130A-184 through 130A-201
§ 93.21 INOCULATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current
inoculation against rabies (hydrophobia) by a licensed veterinarian or
certified rabies vaccinator for any dog or cat four months of age or older.
      (2)   Should it be deemed necessary by the County Health Director or the
State Public Health Veterinarian that other pets be inoculated in order to
prevent a threatened epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be
unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current inoculation against rabies for
that pet.
   (B)   A rabies inoculation shall be deemed current for a dog or cat if its
first inoculation has been given within the preceding one year, or if a second
or subsequent inoculation with a vaccine that is FDA approved for three years
protection against rabies, has been given within the preceding three years.
(Prior Code, § 1.21) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 EVIDENCE OF INOCULATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Upon complying with the provisions of §
93.21, there shall be issued to the owner of the animal inoculated, a numbered
metallic tag, stamped with the number and the year for which issued,
appropriately color-coded as recommended by the State Public Health
Veterinarian, and indicating that the animal has been inoculated against
rabies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide the dog with
a collar or harness to which a current tag issued under this section be
securely attached. The collar or harness, with attached tag, must be worn at
all times, except as provided by §
93.07(B) of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any dog a rabies
inoculation tag issued for a dog other than the one for which the tag was
issued.
   (D)   The owner of dogs or cats shall maintain the rabies inoculation
certificate as written evidence that the dog or cat has a current rabies
inoculation.
(Prior Code, § 1.22) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 REPORT AND CONFINEMENT OF ANIMALS BITING PERSONS OR SHOWING SYMPTOMS OF
RABIES.
   (A)   Every animal which has bitten any person or which shows symptoms of
rabies shall be confined immediately and shall be promptly reported to the
Animal Control Officer and Health Director. If currently vaccinated, all dogs
and cats shall be securely quarantined, at the direction of the County Health
Director, for a period of ten days, and shall not be released from the
quarantine, except by written permission from the Animal Control Officer and/or
County Health Director. If unvaccinated, the County Health Department or state
officials may demand that the animal be euthanized and its head examined for
rabies.
   (B)   Dogs and cats quarantined under this section shall be confined, at the
expense of the owner, in a veterinary hospital, County Animal Shelter or
suitable facility off the premises of the owner as designated by the County
Health Director.
   (C)   In the case of stray dogs or cats whose ownership is not known, the
dogs or cats may be euthanized upon consultation with the local Health Director
by the Animal Control Officer or by a licensed veterinarian, and the head
examined for rabies or kept for the supervised quarantined period required by
this section at the County Animal Shelter.
   (D)   If symptoms of rabies do not develop within ten days after a dog or
cat is quarantined under this section, the dog or cat may be released from
quarantine with the written permission of the Animal Control Officer or County
Health Director. If the dog or cat has been confined in the County Animal
Shelter, the owner shall pay a fee determined by resolution of the Board of
County Commissioners for each day of confinement to defray the cost of feeding,
upon reclaiming the animal. The fee schedule shall be available for public
inspection in the office of the Administrator to the Board of County
Commissioners and the County Animal Shelter.
   (E)   Any animal other than dogs or cats may be euthanized and the head
tested for rabies, at the discretion of the State Public Health Veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 1.23) Penalty, see §
93.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. §§ 130A-196, 130A-198
§ 93.24 DESTRUCTION OR CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL BITTEN BY RABID ANIMAL.
   Dogs and cats which have not been inoculated against rabies which are bitten
by a proven rabid animal shall be euthanized and destroyed immediately. If the
owner is unwilling to have this done, the animal shall be confined and
quarantined for a six-month period at the expense of the owner. One month
before release (for example, five months after being bitten) the animal shall
be inoculated against rabies. If the animal was inoculated against rabies at
least 30 days before the exposure and the animal has a current rabies
inoculation, it shall be revaccinated immediately and placed in strict
confinement at the expense of the owner for at least 30 days. Any confinement
or quarantine within this section provided for by the owner of any animal shall
be supervised and approved by the Animal Control Officer and Health Director.
(Prior Code, § 1.24)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see G.S. § 130A-197
§ 93.25 AREA-WIDE EMERGENCY QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies, the County
Director of Public Health may order an area-wide quarantine for the period as
he or she deems necessary. Upon invoking of the emergency quarantine, no dog,
cat or other carnivore shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in
the streets during the period unless leashed. During the quarantine, no dog,
cat or other carnivore may be taken or shipped from the county without written
permission of the Animal Control Officer. Law enforcement is directed during
the emergency to impound any dog, cat or other carnivore found running at large
in the county. During the quarantine period, the Animal Control Officer or the
local health authorities shall be empowered to provide for a program of mass
immunization by the establishment of temporary emergency rabies vaccination
facilities strategically located throughout the county.
   (B)   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring
during the period of quarantine, the period of quarantine may be extended at
the discretion of the County Director of Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 1.25) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.26 POSTMORTEM DIAGNOSIS.
   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, or is suspected of
dying of rabies, the head of the animal shall be submitted to the County Health
Department for shipment to the Laboratory Section of the Division of Health
Services for rabies diagnosis.
(Prior Code, § 1.26)
§ 93.27 UNLAWFUL KILLING, RELEASING AND THE LIKE OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation either for ten days, or six months for rabies, any animal suspected
of having been exposed to rabies, or to release any animal subject to
quarantine or destruction for having bitten a human, or to remove the animal
from the county.
(Prior Code, § 1.27) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.28 FAILURE TO SURRENDER ANIMAL FOR QUARANTINE OR DESTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction as required in this subchapter, when
demand is made therefor by the Animal Control Officer and/or Health Director.
(Prior Code, § 1.28) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.29 STATE LAW; RABIES.
   In the absence of any other local guidance regarding rabies, state laws will
prevail.
(Prior Code, § 1.29)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 93.40 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any animal which appears to be lost, stray or unwanted, or which is
found to be not wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination tag, a dog
identification tag as required by this chapter or an appropriately registered
microchip identification and not under restraint in violation of this chapter,
shall be impounded by the Animal Control Officer and confined in the County
Animal Shelter in a humane manner.
   (B)   Further, an owner of an animal may voluntarily turn the animal into
the Animal Shelter for impoundment and other disposition under this chapter.
Impoundment of the animal shall not relieve the owner thereof from any penalty
which may be imposed for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1.40)
§ 93.41 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Immediately upon impounding an animal, the Animal Control Officer
shall make a reasonable effort to notify the owner and inform the owner of the
conditions whereby the animal may be redeemed.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner of the animal is known or can be located, the
animal must be kept in the Animal Shelter for a minimum of seven days.
      (2)   If the owner of the animal is unknown or cannot be located, the
animal must be kept in the Animal Shelter for a minimum of four days.
(Prior Code, § 1.41)
§ 93.42 REDEMPTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of an animal impounded under this chapter may redeem the
animal and regain possession thereof by complying with all applicable
provisions of this chapter and paying a redemption fee, any necessary
veterinarian’s fee, and a daily boarding fee at a rate to be determined by
resolution of the Board of County Commissioners. Fee rates shall be available
for public inspection in the office of the Administrator of the Board of County
Commissioners and the County Animal Shelter.
   (B)   Any dog or cat impounded as a stray without a microchip or a dog
identification tag, as specified in §
93.06, must have a microchip implanted or a obtain a dog identification tag at
the owner’s expense within 72 hours of redemption of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 1.42)
§ 93.43 DESTRUCTION OR ADOPTION OF UNREDEEMED ANIMAL.
   (A)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner within the period
prescribed in §
93.42, it may be destroyed in a humane manner or shall become the property of
the County Animal Shelter and offered for adoption to any responsible adult who
is willing to comply with this chapter. The animal may be adopted or purchased
by the first person who pays the adoption or purchase fee and rabies
vaccination fee. No live animals may be sold or offered for adoption for
laboratory or testing purposes.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall not without written consent of a
veterinarian allow any dog or cat seven weeks of age or older to be released
from the Animal Shelter for adoption until the dog or cat has been neutered or
spayed.
   (C)   In lieu of an adoption fee, or in addition to the adoption fee, a
charge may be made as a condition to adoption of an animal for an amount as is
determined to be sufficient to pay the cost of neutering the animal.
   (D)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray,
unclaimed by its owner, shall be allowed to be adopted from the Animal Shelter
during a period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked pursuant to §
93.26 of this chapter, except by special authorization of the Director of
Public Health and the Animal Control Officer.
   (E)   There shall be no adoption of vicious or dangerous animals.
   (F)   Potentially vicious or dangerous dogs may be adopted only under the
following conditions and pursuant to the following procedures.
      (1)   The potential adopting party must complete the application forms as
are provided and complete the counseling as is offered by the County Animal
Control Office. Approved counseling may be provided by personnel or qualified
volunteers at the County Animal Control Office, by attendance at dog obedience
training classes or by viewing videos or reading materials which are provided
by or approved by the County Animal Control Office.
      (2)   The staff and volunteers of the Animal Shelter shall observe the
dog during the minimum four-day holding period, and the dog shall be found not
to be a vicious or dangerous animal.
      (3)   The potential adopting party shall pay a fee as is established by
the County Board of Commissioners for the purpose of having the dog to be
adopted undergo evaluation by a licensed veterinarian with formal training in
animal behavior, or with other appropriate qualifications in the field of
animal behavior as approved by the County Animal Control Office, and the dog
shall thereafter be evaluated and found not to be a vicious or dangerous
animal.
      (4)   The potential adopting party shall sign a release and waiver of all
claims upon forms provided by the County Animal Control Office, for the purpose
of releasing the county, the County Animal Control Office and its agents and
employees, from all liability resulting from property damage or personal injury
caused by dogs adopted through the County Animal Control Office, agreeing to
assume all legal responsibility and liability for property damage or personal
injuries caused by adopted dogs; agreeing to defend and hold the county
harmless from all claims for liability resulting from property damage or
personal injuries caused by the adopted dogs; and confirming that liability
insurance is in place to provide coverage for property damage and personal
injury caused by the dogs following adoption.
(Prior Code, § 1.43) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.44 PROCEDURE WITH RESPECT TO REDEMPTION OR ADOPTION OF UNVACCINATED DOGS
AND CATS.
   (A)   (1)   Unless proof of a current rabies vaccination can be furnished,
every person who either adopts or redeems a dog at the County Animal Shelter
will be given a “proof of rabies vaccination” card at the time of the
redemption or adoption.
      (2)   This card will be marked with a date stating the maximum time limit
allowed to take the dog to the veterinarian of the person’s choice for rabies
vaccination. The time limit for dogs four months and older will be 72 hours,
with Sundays and holidays excluded.
      (3)   For puppies under 12 weeks, the time limit will vary according to
age. Any dog referred to in this section and its vaccination card shall be
taken by the person adopting or redeeming the animal to a veterinarian within
the time limit to be vaccinated.
   (B)   Payment for rabies vaccination provided for in this section will be
the responsibility of the person redeeming or adopting the animal.
(Prior Code, § 1.44)
§ 93.45 SUSPECTED RABID ANIMALS NOT TO BE REDEEMED OR ADOPTED.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, animals impounded which
appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted, but shall
be dealt with in accordance with §§
93.20 through
93.28.
(Prior Code, § 1.45)
§ 93.46 DESTRUCTION OF WOUNDED OR DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any animal
impounded which is badly wounded or diseased (not a rabies suspect) and has no
identification, may be destroyed immediately in a humane manner.
   (B)   If the animal has identification, the Animal Control Officer shall
attempt to notify the owner before disposing of the animal, but if the owner
cannot be reached readily and the animal is suffering, the Animal Control
Officer may destroy the animal at his or her discretion in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 1.46)
§ 93.47 DESTRUCTION OF ANIMALS THAT CANNOT BE SEIZED BY REASONABLE MEANS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a dog or cat that
cannot be seized by reasonable and normal means, trapped in a humane, live-
capture animal trap or tranquilized may be humanely destroyed in the field by
the Animal Control Officer or by law enforcement officers.
   (B)   Vicious, dangerous/potentially dangerous animals so designated, or an
animal attacking a human being, another pet or livestock may be immediately
destroyed, if the destruction is necessary for the protection of the public
health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 1.47)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 93.60 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer shall be charged with the responsibility
of:
      (1)   Enforcing, in the county, all state and county laws, ordinances and
resolutions relating to the care, custody and control of animals;
      (2)   Cooperating with the Health Director and assisting in the
enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to animals, and especially
with regard to vaccination of animals against rabies and confinement or
leashing of vicious animals;
      (3)   Investigating cruelty or animal abuse complaints;
      (4)   Making canvasses of the county, including the homes in the county,
as the Animal Control Advisory Committee deems necessary for the purposes of
ascertaining that all animals are duly tagged and vaccinated against rabies as
required by local ordinance or state statute;
      (5)   Operating, pursuant to policies of the Board of County
Commissioners, the County Animal Shelter;
      (6)   Acting as the County Rabies Inspector;
      (7)   Assisting persons suffering personal injury or sustaining property
damage from dogs in violation of this chapter;
      (8)   Investigating potentially vicious or dangerous animals or vicious
or dangerous animals following a complaint or other information received by the
Animal Control Office;
      (9)   Declaring after an investigation that an animal is a potentially
vicious or dangerous animal or a vicious or dangerous animal; and
      (10)   Notifying owners or keepers of potentially vicious or dangerous
animals or vicious or dangerous animals of additional requirements or
precautions to be taken.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to keep, or cause
to be kept, accurate and detailed records of:
      (1)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the Animal
Shelter or shelters;
      (2)   Bite cases, violations and complaints and investigation of same;
      (3)   All monies belonging to the county which were derived from
redemption fees, shelter fees, penalties, tags and sales of animals;
      (4)   All other records deemed necessary by the Board of County
Commissioners; and
      (5)   Records of investigations required by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1.60)
Statutory reference:
   County authority to appoint Animal Control Officers, see G.S. § 67-30
§ 93.61 ANIMAL CONTROL ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The County Board of Commissioners shall have the authority to create
and appoint an Advisory Committee of the number as it shall determine.
   (B)   The members shall serve terms as established by the Board of County
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 1.61)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any owner who violates any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty for each
violation in accordance with division (C) below, as well as to criminal
penalties. Fines shall be established by the County Board of Commissioners
based on the nature of the violation and number of repeat offenses. If the
violation is continued, each day’s violation shall constitute a separate
offense. For the purposes of this section, repeat violations occur where the
agency has issued a fine for the same offense within a 24-month period. Nothing
is this section shall prevent agency representatives from issuing warning
violations.
   (B)   The animal owner or keeper shall be issued a written notice of
violation and shall be required to make payment to the County Animal Control
Officer and/or the County Animal Control Office or his or her designee at the
time the animal is redeemed or within ten days of the receipt of notice
whichever comes first. Notice of the civil penalty and violation shall be
delivered in person to the violator or mailed by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner’s last known address. If the applicable civil penalty
is not paid within the time period prescribed, a civil action may be commenced
to recover the penalty and costs associated with collection of the penalty.
Level I
Level I
§      Failure to keep an animal under restraint
93.02
§      Animal creating a public nuisance
93.05
§      Failure to have proper identification tag
93.06
§      Failure to comply with
93.20   93.20 through
        93.29
§      Failure to provide microchip after 72 hours of redemption
93.42
Level II
§      Cruelty to animals
93.03
§      Inherently dangerous wild animal
93.09
§ 93.10Giving away or selling animals in a public place
Level III
§      Failure to comply with section
93.04
§      Interference with enforcement
93.07
 
 
Civil Penalty Fine Schedule
          First Offense Second Offense Third Offense Each Additional Offense
Level I   $50           $75            $100          $100
Level II  $75           $125           $250          $250
Level III $250          $500           $1,000        $1,000
 
   (C)   Violation of this chapter may subject the violator to criminal as well
as civil action. In addition to the civil penalties or fees imposed under this
chapter, violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor for which a criminal
summons or warrant may be issued. Any violator convicted of a violation shall
be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4. Each day’s violation of this section
is a separate offense. Payment of a fine imposed in criminal proceedings
pursuant to this section does not relieve the violator of his or her liability
for taxes, civil penalties or fees imposed under this chapter.
   (D)   Any person who fails to pay a fine within a period of 72 hours after
receiving a notice of civil penalty shall be deemed to have committed a
misdemeanor and a warrant may be issued for the person’s arrest. Prosecution
under this section shall require proof of the occurrence of the underlying
facts giving rise to the notice of civil penalty.
(Prior Code, § 1.62)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Noises expressly prohibited
   
94.02   Firearms regulated
§ 94.01 NOISES EXPRESSLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating, permit, continue or permit the continuance of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town. Noise of a
character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of
any individual is prohibited.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. II, § 1)
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises to any reasonable person and shall be in violation of
this section, but the enumerations shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any device on any
automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a
danger signal if other vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if
in motion only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and
deceleration of the vehicle is intended in the creation by means of any signal
device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound and the sounding of the device
for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than law
enforcement, fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loud speakers or any other instrument or sound amplifying devices so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in a manner as renders
the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that, upon application to the
Mayor, permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce programs
in music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, except through a muffler
or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity which in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit
from the Town Administrator, a permit may be renewed for a period of three days
or less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, which unreasonable interferes with the working
of the institution; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets
indicating that the same is a school;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church; provided, conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the same is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle, of the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loud speakers or other instruments or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loud speaker or other instrument or
device or amplifiers on trucks or other moving vehicles for advertising
purposes or other purposes, except where specific licenses is received from the
Town Board;
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (18)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other
combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Board of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. II, § 2) (Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-2021)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 FIREARMS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge and firearm of any type in
the corporate limits, except a peace officer in the performance of his or her
duty.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. II, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: TOWN PARKS
Section
   
95.01   Times of operation
   
95.02   Effective date
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 TIMES OF OPERATION.
   The town parks will be open from 7:00 a.m. until 9:00 p.m. during eastern
standard time (November 1 to March 31) and will be open from 7:00 a.m. until
10:30 p.m. during eastern daylight savings time (April 1 to October 31). The
town parks will be closed to the public during all other hours.
(Ord. passed 4-25-1990) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon passage on 4-25-1990.
(Ord. passed 4-25-1990)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not exceeding $50 or
imprisoned not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. passed 4-25-1990)
CHAPTER 96: ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
96.03   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
96.04   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
96.05   Removal of vehicles; pre-towing notice required
   
96.06   Prior notice; exceptions
   
96.07   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice required
   
96.08   Hearing
   
96.09   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
96.10   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
96.11   Private property; removal of vehicle from
   
96.12   Liability; protection against
   
96.13   Exceptions
   
96.14   Impounded vehicle; unlawful removal
   
96.15   Administration
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  As authorized and defined in G.S. 160-A-303, an
abandoned motor vehicle is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL.  The supervisory employee of the Haywood County
Sheriff's Office or the Town Administrator, respectively, designated to
authorize the removal of vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)    Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than one
hundred dollars $100.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, etc.;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Board of Aldermen.
(Ord. – , passed - -; Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-2021)
§ 96.02 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.03 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Administrator may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined
above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.04 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single,
permitted junked motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and
concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (e) of this section, upon
investigation, the Town Administrator may order the removal of a junked motor
vehicle as defined in this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private
property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss
of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting
or enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among
other relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle.
      (1)   (a)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in
the rear yard, as defined by the town’s zoning ordinance, if the junked motor
vehicle is entirely concealed from public view from a public street and from
abutting premises by an acceptable covering.
         (b)   The Town Administrator has the authority to determine whether
any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this provision.
The covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate.
The covering or enclosure must be compatible with the objectives stated in this
chapter and the preamble of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
      (2)   More than one junked motor vehicle. Any other junked motor vehicle
(s) must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a complete
enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public
street or abutting property. A garage or building structure means either a
lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to
the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
96.06, an abandoned, nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed shall be
towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor
vehicle, if the names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person
entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of
the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class
mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show
the name(s) and address(es)to which mailed, and the date mailed. If such names
and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an
abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or
some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice indicating that the
vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date (no sooner than seven
days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will
be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal
possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Aldermen, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle
shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.06 PRIOR NOTICE; EXCEPTIONS.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. Such findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice include
the following:
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Aldermen hereby determines that immediate
removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
code sections.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.07 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform such services
for the town. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing Town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, such
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(l) through (A)(5)
of this section, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known
address, unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his
agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration of registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him of the information set forth in divisions (A)
(1)through (A)(5) of this section.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.08 HEARING.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the chief district court judge to receive such hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours or receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. 20-222, as amended.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.09 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any state in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 96.10 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.11 PRIVATE PROPERTY; REMOVAL OF VEHICLE FROM.
   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town Administrator. The town may require any person requesting the removal
of an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to
indemnify the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of
the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.12 LIABILITY; PROTECTION AGAINST.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.13 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as
defined in G.S. 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. 136-
141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 96.14 IMPOUNDED VEHICLE; UNLAWFUL REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 96.15 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Law enforcement and the Town Administrator shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Law enforcement shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways within the town
and on the property owned by the town. The Town Administrator shall be
responsible for administering the removal and disposition of abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicles located on private property.
   (B)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing business to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Haywood County Sheriff's office and fire
department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. – , passed - -; Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-2021)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PRIVILEGE LICENSES
      
111.   TAXICABS
      
112.   POOL ROOMS; ARCADES
      
113.   JUNKYARDS
      
114.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: PRIVILEGE LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax upon certain trades and business operations
   
110.03   Unlawful to conduct business without a license
   
110.04   License taxes shall be for 12 months
   
110.05   License required for every separate business
   
110.06   License required for every place of business
   
110.07   License must be displayed at the place of licensed business
   
110.08   No abatement of license tax
   
110.09   Schedule of annual privilege licenses
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject, by the provisions of this chapter, to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with July 1 and ending with June 30 next
following.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 1)
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX UPON CERTAIN TRADES AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   In addition to the tax on property and polls, as otherwise provided for, and
under the power and authority conferred in the laws of the state, there shall
be levied and collected annually or oftener, where provided for, a privilege
tax license on trades, professions, business operations, exhibitions, circuses
and all subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in the following
sections and schedule. All licenses shall be a personal privilege and shall not
be transferable. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the
Board of Aldermen from imposing from time to time, as it sees fit, the license
taxes as are not specifically herein defined, from increasing or decreasing the
amount of any special license tax or from prohibiting or regulating the
business or acts licensed, and all licenses are granted subject to the
provisions of existing ordinances for those hereafter enacted.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 2)
§ 110.03 UNLAWFUL TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a license,
without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. For the
purpose of this section, the opening of a place of business or offering to
sell, followed by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance
of the business shall be construed to be engaging in or carrying on the
business; and each day that the person, firm or corporation shall engage in or
carry on the business as aforesaid, shall be construed to be a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 LICENSE TAXES SHALL BE FOR 12 MONTHS.
   All taxes provided for and fixes in the following sections and schedule
shall be for 12 months, unless otherwise specified, and shall so remain for 12
months beginning July 1 and ending June 30; provided that, where the license is
issued after January 1, then the license shall be required to pay one-half the
tax prescribed, except where otherwise specifically provided for.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 4)
§ 110.05 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this chapter shall not relieve
the person paying the same from the payment of any other tax imposed by this
chapter for any other business he or she may carry on, unless so provided by
the section imposing the tax, it being the intent of this chapter that license
taxes prescribed by various sections of this chapter applicable to any business
shall be cumulative, except where otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 5)
§ 110.06 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only valid
for the business conducted at the place and by the licensed named therein.
Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse or store,
stall or stand, or other place of business shall secure a separate license for
each place of business, unless the places of business are contiguous to each
other, communicate directly with an opening into each other and are operated as
a unit. If the business is moved or if the licensee sells to another, then a
new license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under
the original license is obtained from the Board of Aldermen.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 6)
§ 110.07 LICENSE MUST BE DISPLAYED AT THE PLACE OF LICENSED BUSINESS.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named in the license or, if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, the licensee must keep the same wherever the business is being
operated and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal
official.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 7)
§ 110.08 NO ABATEMENT OF LICENSE TAX.
   No license tax shall be abated, nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made, in any case where the licensee discontinues his or her business before
the end of the period for which the license was issued.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 8)
§ 110.09 SCHEDULE OF ANNUAL PRIVILEGE LICENSES.
   See current schedule on file in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. I, § 9)
CHAPTER 111: TAXICABS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Unlawful to operate without certificate
   
111.03   Application required
   
111.04   Board issues certificates
   
111.05   Durations of certificate
   
111.06   Failure to begin operations
   
111.07   Transfer
   
111.08   Revocation of certificate
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONS. Singular and plural. Persons, individuals, firms, corporations,
partnerships and associations.
   TAXICAB.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon
any street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between the points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported.
      (2)   Shall not include motor vehicles, common carriers by motor vehicle,
or motor carriers, as defined in G.S. § 62-103(k).
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. II, § 1)
§ 111.02 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over the
streets of the town without first having applied for and secured from the Board
of Aldermen a certificate of privilege licenses.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. II, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the
town shall appear before the Board of Aldermen and apply.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. II, § 3)
§ 111.04 BOARD ISSUES CERTIFICATES.
   The Board will have the power, and it will be its duty, to order certain
certificates issued, refuse to issue certain certificates or to issue
certificates for practical exercise of the rights granted only by the
certificates the terms and conditions as, in its judgment, the public
convenience may require.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. II, § 4)
§ 111.05 DURATIONS OF CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate from the town for the operation of taxicabs within the town
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter for one year, unless a
shorter period of time is specified in the certificate. Applications for
renewal shall be filed annually and a hearing conducted, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. II, § 5)
§ 111.06 FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant, and the applicant shall fail to
begin operations within 60 days after the date of the certificate, then the
certificate shall become null and void, and no refund of any amount paid by the
applicant will be made by the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. II, § 6)
§ 111.07 TRANSFER.
   A certificate is not transferable without the consent and approval of the
Town Board and the applicant shall not be allowed to engage the services of any
person to operate his or her taxicab for him or her or in his or her stead at
any time.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. II, § 7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   The Town Board may, at any time after a public hearing, revoke any
certificate issued by authority of this chapter for any one or more of the
following causes:
   (A)   Failure to operate the taxicab specified in the certificate in a
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
   (B)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
   (C)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by law;
   (D)   Failure to pay to the town taxes or licenses fees of $15 imposed upon
the taxicabs;
   (E)   Repeated and persistent violations by the taxicab drivers of traffic
and safety ordinances or state laws relating to alcoholic beverages or
prostitution;
   (F)   Failure to report accidents; and
   (G)   Willful failure to comply with any provisions of this chapter or other
ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs, whether the
ordinances and laws be now in force or hereafter enacted into ordinances and
into law.
(Prior Code, Ch. H, Art. II, § 8)
CHAPTER 112: POOL ROOMS; ARCADES
Section
   
112.01   Operation prohibited; rules and regulations
§ 112.01 OPERATION PROHIBITED; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Pool or billiard halls are prohibited from operating within the limits
of the town.
   (B)   Any business which operates amusement devices such as pinball
machines, electronic games and any other amusement machines shall be subject to
the following rules and regulations with respect to operation of the machines:
      (1)   No Sunday operation of the machines;
      (2)   No person under the age of 16 years will be allowed to operate the
machines or to enter or remain in a game room unless accompanied and supervised
by an adult relative, guardian or custodian; and
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to allow the operation of the machines between
the following hours: 9:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
   (C)   Privilege license shall be obtained for each amusement device.
Privilege license to operate amusement devices permitted by state law is
conditioned upon following the above regulations. Failure to observe the above
rules will result in revocation of privilege license.
   (D)   The Board of Aldermen shall determine the sufficiency of proof of
violations of any of the above rules or conditions and may revoke or suspend
the license to operate at any time by a majority vote of the Board.
(Ord. passed 8-12-1981; Ord. passed 3-18-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: JUNKYARDS
Section
   
113.01   Unlawful operation
§ 113.01 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation within the
corporate limits of the town to dismantle automobiles, trucks, other vehicles
or machinery of any nature, or to accumulate iron, steel, tin, copper, wire,
other metals, tires or other second hand materials commonly known as “junk”, on
any lot or in any structure within the corporate limits of the town and it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to collect together any
of the foregoing materials for the purpose of storing, buying, selling or
otherwise dealing in the same, within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. III, § 1)
   (B)   The town has passed this chapter under the law enforcement power of
the town and pursuant to the statutes, in such cases made and provided, to
protect the public health of the citizens of the town, and to protect the
property in the town against fire, and to prevent a public nuisance from being
created by reason of the accumulation of materials hereinbefore specified.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. III, § 2) (Am. Ord. passed 3-11-2021)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
Licenses
   
114.10   Business license
   
114.11   Entertainer license
   
114.12   Classification and fees
   
114.13   Application procedures
   
114.14   Application processing
   
114.15   Disapproval; reasons for
   
114.16   Notice of approval or disapproval
   
114.17   Application; changes to
Regulations
   
114.30   Prohibited acts and conduct
   
114.31   License; posting and display
   
114.32   Inspections
   
114.33   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
114.34   License renewal
   
114.35   Transfer of license
   
114.36   Locational restrictions
   
114.37   Non-conforming uses
   
114.38   Adult motels
   
114.39   Escort agencies
   
114.40   Nude model studios
   
114.41   Exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos, and live performances
   
114.42   Exterior portions of sexually oriented businesses
   
114.43   Signage
   
114.44   Massages or baths administered by a person of the opposite sex
   
114.45   Hours of operation
Administration
   
114.60   Notices
   
114.61   Injunction
   
114.62   Exemptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to set forth the regulatory and
licensing requirements for adult establishments located within the town. Adult
establishments, because of their very nature, are recognized as having serious
objectionable operational characteristics. Studies and experiences have show
that lower property values and increased crime rates tend to accompany and are
brought about by adult establishments. The Board of Aldermen finds that
regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse secondary
effects do not contribute to the blighting of surrounding neighborhoods and to
regulate acts, omissions or conditions detrimental to the health, safety or
welfare and the peace and dignity of the town. Regulation to achieve these
purposes can be accomplished by the procedures set forth hereinafter.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. This chapter represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of
the community by imposing an incidental, content neutral place, time and manner
regulation of sexually oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication and at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing administrative and enforcement activities.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale of publications (including books, magazines, and other
periodicals) which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section; or
      (2)   Having as a preponderance of its publications, books magazines, and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical area, as defined in this section.
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are
intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult mini potion picture theater, escort agency, nude
modeling studios, sexual encounter center or any adult entertainment business
as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassette, slides, or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, and has a sign visible form the
public right of way that advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. Adult motion picture theater does
not include any adult mini motion picture theater as defined in this section.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the said person is paid a
salary, wage, or other compensation by the operator of said business. Employee
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to
the premises, nor does employee include a person exclusively on the premises as
a patron or customer.
   ENLARGEMENT. Of a sexually oriented business, means the increase in floor
areas occupied by the business by more than 10%, as the floor areas exist on
date of adoption of this ordinance.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides entertainment within or at an adult
establishment, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for entertainment
and whether or not entertainment is provided by that person as an employee or
an independent contractor.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSED DAY-CARE CENTER. A facility licensed by the state of North
Carolina, whether situated within the town or not, that provides care,
training, education, custody, treatment or supervision for more than 12
children under 14 years of age, where such children are not related by blood,
marriage or adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for less than 24
hours a day, regardless of whether or not the facility is operated for a profit
or charges for the services it offers.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by another
persons for consideration.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genial, female genitals, or vulva,
with less that fully opaque covering; or human male genitals in a discernable
turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   PREMISES. The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to this chapter.
   SEMI-NUDE. The appearance of the female breast below a horizontal line
across the top of the areola at its highest point. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit, other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any businesses or enterprises that have as one
of their principal business purposes or a significant portion of their business
an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing, or related to
anatomical areas and sexual activities as specified in G.S. 14-202.10. This
term may be used interchangeably with adult establishment.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Without limitation, any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or their device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities, but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
that transfers the ownership of control of the business, except for the
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
   TOWN. The Town of Clyde, North Carolina.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. The Chief administrative town official. The Town
Administrator is responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
LICENSES
§ 114.10 BUSINESS LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
establishment in the town unless the owner or operator thereof has obtained an
adult establishment license from the town. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to operate such business after such license has been revoked or
suspended by the town or has expired.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any entertainer to knowingly perform any
work, service or entertainment directly related to the operation of an
unlicensed adult establishment within the town.
   (C)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult establishment that
fails to have posted, in the manner required by this chapter, an adult
establishment license, has not obtained such a license. In addition, it shall
be prima facie evidence that any entertainer who performs any service or
entertainment in an adult establishment in which an adult establishment license
is not posted, in the manner required by this chapter, had knowledge that such
business was not licensed.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.11 ENTERTAINER LICENSE.
   It is unlawful for any person to work as an entertainer at an adult
establishment without first obtaining a license to do so from the town, or to
work as an entertainer at an adult establishment after such person's license to
do so has been revoked or suspended by the town or has expired.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.12 LICENSE CLASSIFICATION AND FEES.
   (A)   The term of all licenses required under this chapter shall be for a
period of 12 months, commencing on the date of issuance of the license. The
application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the fees
referred to in this chapter and established by the Board of Aldermen. Payment
shall be made by certified or cashier's check or money order. No application
shall be considered complete until all such fees are paid.
   (B)   All license shall be Issued for a specific location and/or person and
shall be nonrefundable and nontransferable.
   (C)   The license fees shall be set by the Board of Aldermen from time to
time and be recorded in the Town Board of Aldermen meeting minutes at which
they are set.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 114.13 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adult establishment business license. All persons desiring to secure a
license to conduct, operate or maintain an adult establishment under the
provisions of this chapter shall make a verified application to the Town
Administrator. All applications shall be submitted in the name of the person
proposing to conduct, operate or maintain the adult establishment. All
applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the Town Administrator
and shall require the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's full name and any aliases or other names by which
the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, social security number, drivers
license number, and a recent photograph of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the adult establishment, a description of the adult
entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, the name of the owner
of the premises where the adult establishment will be located, the business
address and Haywood County parcel identification number on which the business
resides;
      (3)   If the person identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
in division (A)(1)(b) is/are not also the owner (s) of the establishment, then
the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract
or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or
proposed owners of the adult establishment to have or obtain the use and
possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be used for the purpose
of the operation of an adult establishment;
      (4)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented business
within 75 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school library, or public park or
recreation area within 75 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes of
this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted;
      (5)   Any of the criteria above shall not be required for a renewal
application if the applicant states that the documents previously furnished the
Town Administrator with the original application or previous renewals thereof
remain correct and current;
      (6)   The names, residence addresses for the past two years, social
security numbers and dates of births of all partners, if the applicant is a
partnership; and if the applicant is a corporation, the same information for
all corporate officers, directors, and individuals having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation.
      (7)   A statement from the applicant, or from each partner, or from each
corporate officer, director, or 10% shareholder that each such person has not
been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted
from prosecution on and of the below, where such felony or misdemeanor criminal
act involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution , sexual
abuse of a child, pornography or related offenses as defined in the state laws
or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any
other state:
         (a)   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
         (b)   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application.
      (8)   If the applicant is a corporation, a current certificate of
existence issued by the North Carolina Secretary of State.
      (9)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this chapter regulating adult establishments.
      (10)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by law enforcement.
The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the F.B.I. for processing. Returned
fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file by law
enforcement.
      (11)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his/her background by the town to include fingerprinting.
      (12)   Failure to provide the information and documentation required by
this division shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall not be
processed until complete.
   (C)   Adult entertainer license. All persons desiring to secure a license
under the provisions of this chapter to be an entertainer shall make a verified
application to the Town Administrator. All applications shall be made in person
to the Town Administrator or his designee. All applications shall be submitted
on a form supplied by the Town Administrator and shall require the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant's full name and any aliases or other names by which
the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and the
residence addresses for the past two years, the home telephone number, date and
place of birth, social security number, and any stage names or nicknames used
in entertaining;
      (2)   The name and address of the adult establishment where the applicant
intends to work as an entertainer;
      (3)   A statement from the applicant, that the applicant has not been
convicted of, released from
confinement for conviction of, or diverted from prosecution on:
         (a)   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
         (b)   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application, where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act
involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse
of a child, pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the state
or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any
other state.
      (4)   Photographs shall be taken of the applicant by the Town
Administrator or his designee and the Town Administrator shall have the
photographs processed and retain the copies.
      (5)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by law enforcement.
The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the F. B. I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file by law
enforcement.
      (6)   The applicant shall present to the Town Administrator for copying
documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 21 years at the time
the application is submitted. Any of the following shall be accepted as
documentation of age:
         (a)   A motor vehicle operator's license issued by any state, bearing
the applicant's photograph and date of birth;
         (b)   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant's
photograph and date of birth;
         (c)   An official and valid passport issued by the United States of
America;
         (d)   An immigration card issued by the United States of America;
         (e)   Any other form of picture identification issued by a
governmental entity that is deemed reliable by the Town Administrator; or
         (f)   Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the Town
Administrator.
      (7)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his/her background by the town to included fingerprinting.
      (8)   Failure to provide information required by this division shall
constitute an incomplete application and is shall not be processed until
complete.
(Ord. – , passed - -; Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-2021)
§ 114.14 APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   Upon receipt of a complete application for an adult establishment license or
for an entertainer licenses, the Town Administrator shall immediately commence
investigation of the application as follows:
   (A)   In case of an application for a license for an adult establishment,
the Town Administrator shall:
      (1)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Zoning Officer, the
Zoning Board of Adjustment and to law enforcement.
      (2)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall report to the Town Administrator
no later than 15 working days after the receipt of the application by the Town
Administrator whether or not a proposed adult establishment complies with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance regarding location of the adult
establishment, building, fire, health, or similar state or local code(s). In
the event that the Zoning Officer fails to report to the Town Administrator
within this time period, the Town Administrator shall proceed with processing
the application.
      (3)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall review the application to
confirm compliance with the town zoning ordinance. If the Board confirms
compliance, then a special use permit shall be granted and the findings
transmitted to the Town Administrator within 20 working days of receipt of the
application.
      (4)   Law enforcement shall report to the Town Administrator no later
than 15 working days after the receipt of the application by law enforcement
the results of their investigation of the applicant. In the event that law
enforcement fails to report to the Town Administrator within this time period,
the Town Administrator shall proceed with processing the application.
      (5)   Upon completion of his/her investigation, payment of the applicable
license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Zoning Enforcement Officer,
the Board of Zoning Adjustment and law enforcement (or upon expiration of the
time periods referenced above without receiving a report), the Town
Administrator shall determine whether or not a license shall be issued. In no
event shall the time period for determination by the Town Administrator exceed
45 working days from the date the application is received by the Town
Administrator, unless consented to by the applicant.
   (B)   In the case of an application for a license for an entertainer, the
Town Administrator shall:
      (1)   Transmit a copy of the application to law enforcement.
      (2)   Law enforcement shall report to the Town Administrator no later
than ten working days after receipt of the application by law enforcement the
results of their investigation of the applicant. In the event that law
enforcement fails to report to the Town Administrator within this time period,
the revenue manager shall proceed with the processing the application.
      (3)   Upon completion of his/her investigation, payment of the
appropriate license fee, and upon receipt of the report of law enforcement (or
upon expiration of either or both time periods referenced above without
receiving a report), the Town Administrator shall determine whether or not a
license shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for determination by
the Town Administrator exceed 15 days from the date the application is received
by the Town Administrator unless consented to by the applicant.
(Ord. – , passed - -; Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-2021; Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-
2021)
§ 114.15 DISAPPROVAL; REASONS FOR.
   The Town Administrator must deny the license application for one or more of
the following reasons:
   (A)   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this chapter;
   (B)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers, directors,
and shareholders where applicable), has been convicted of a crime in the local,
state or federal court systems for any violations listed in this chapter;
   (C)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers and
directors, where applicable), has made false or fraudulent statements in the
application, evidence of which is disclosed by a town background investigation
or by any other lawful means;
   (D)   The application for an adult establishment does not meet the
requirements of this chapter; or
   (E)   The applicant for a sexually oriented business has not received a
special use permit from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. – , passed - -; Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-2021)
§ 114.16 NOTICE OF APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon a determination by the Town Administrator of the disapproval or
approval of the application, the Town Administrator shall notify the applicant
by personal delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
address of the applicant as shown on the application. In the event that the
application is disapproved, the notification shall state the basis for such
disapproval.
   (B)   In the event an application is disapproved, the applicant shall have
30 days from the receipt of the notice of disapproval to appeal that
determination to the Superior Court of Haywood County.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 114.17 APPLICATION; CHANGES TO.
   All applicants shall notify the Town Administrator of any changes to the
application within five working days of the date the change occurs.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
REGULATIONS
§ 114.30 PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted on the premises
of any adult establishment.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be granted a license for an
adult establishment business or as an entertainer.
   (C)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall appear bottomless or in a state of nudity while on the
premises of the adult establishment.
   (D)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall perform any specified sexual activities as defined in this
chapter, wear or use any device or covering exposed to view which simulates any
specified anatomical area, use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
perform or depict any of the specified sexual activities, as defined in this
chapter, or participate in any act of prostitution while on the premises of the
adult establishment.
   (E)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer, customer or patron
of an adult establishment shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress any specified
anatomical area of another person, or knowingly permit another person to touch,
fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers, whether such
specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or exposed, while on
the premises of the adult establishment.
   (F)   There shall be a minimum separation of 24 inches between any
entertainer or performer and any patron or customer.
   (G)   No owner, operator, manager or other person in charge of the premises
of an adult entertainment premises shall knowingly allow or permit any person
under the age of 21 years of age to be in or upon the premises or knowingly
allow or permit a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.31 LICENSE; POSTING AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Every person, corporation or partnership licensed under this chapter
as an adult establishment shall post such license in a conspicuous place and
manner of the adult establishment premises.
   (B)   Every person holding a license as an entertainer shall post his or her
license in his or her work area on the adult establishment premises so it shall
be readily available for the inspection by town authorities responsible for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.32 INSPECTIONS.
   All adult establishments shall permit representatives of law enforcement,
fire, zoning, or other town or state departments or agencies acting in their
official capacity, to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure that the
business is complying with all applicable regulations and laws.
(Ord. – , passed - -; Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.33 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Town Administrator shall conduct a hearing to determine whether or
not a license should be suspended or revoked, with the hearing conducted within
ten working days of his/her knowledge that:
      (1)   The owner or operator of an adult establishment or the holder of a
license as an entertainer has violated, or knowingly allowed or permitted the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this chapter
that have occurred under such circumstances that the owner or operator of an
adult establishment knew or should have known that such violations were
committed;
      (3)   The license was obtained through false statements in the
application for such license, or renewal thereof;
      (4)   The license has been materially altered or defaced, or is being or
was used by a person other than the license holder or at a location other than
that identified on the license, or for a use or type other than that for which
the license was issued;
      (5)   The licensee failed to make a complete disclosure of all
information in the application for such license, or renewal thereof;
      (6)   The owner or operator, or any partner, or any corporate officer or
director holding an adult establishment license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter; or
      (7)   The holder of an entertainer license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter.
         (a)   At the hearing, the licensee shall have an opportunity to be
heard, to present evidence and to be represented by an attorney.
         (b)   Based on the evidence produced at the hearing, the Town
Administrator shall take, within five working days after the hearing, any of
the following actions:
            i.   Suspend the license for up to 90 days;
            ii.   Revoke the license;
            iii.   Place the license holder on administrative probation or a
period of up to one year, on the condition that no further violations of this
chapter occur during the period of probation; or
            iv.   Take no action.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall provide written notice of his/her
decision to the applicant by certified mail, returned receipt requested. The
notice shall be sent immediately after the Town Administrator determines what
action to take, as described above.
   (C)   In the event of suspension or revocation of the license, or the
placement on administrative probation, the licensee shall have the right to
appeal that determination to the Superior Court of Haywood County within 30
days of receipt of the notice of suspension, revocation or probation.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 114.34 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license may be renewed by making application to the Town
Administrator on application forms provided for that purpose. Any license
issued under this chapter shall expire as of the end of the 12 month period
from the date of its issuance, and renewal applications for such licenses shall
be submitted no sooner than 45 days prior to expiration an no later than the
town business day immediately preceding the date of expiration of the license.
   (B)   Upon timely and proper application for renewal and the payment in full
of the license fee, the Town Administrator shall issue to the applicant a
receipt showing the date of renewal application and granting to the applicant a
temporary extension of the license for a period of 45 days or until the
application for renewal is approved or disapproved. Any license issued under
the provisions of this chapter may be renewed by issuance of a new license for
an additional 12 month period. All applications for renewal of license shall be
processed in the manner provided for the issuance of the initial license.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 114.35 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 114.36 LOCATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses may be permitted as a special use in a
commercial district provided that:
   (A)   The sexually oriented business may not be located or operated within
75 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue, or regular place of worship;
      (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
      (3)   A public library;
      (4)   A boundary of any residential district;
      (5)   A public park or playground;
      (6)   A licensed day-care center;
      (7)   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards
children; or
      (8)   Another sexually oriented business.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where
sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of any use listed in division (A) of this section.
(Ord. – , passed - -; Am. Ord. – , passed 3-11-2021) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.37 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter
that is in violation of the locational or structural configuration requirements
of this ordinance shall be deemed a non-conforming use. The nonconforming use
will be permitted to continue for a period not to exceed two years, unless
sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30
days or more. Such non-conforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended or altered, except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If
two or more sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another
and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented business that
was first established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later-established business(es) is non-conforming.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license. This provision applies only
to the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply when an
application for a business license is submitted after a business license has
expired or has been revoked.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.38 ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful if a person as the person in control of a sleeping room
in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or
subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the terms RENT or
SUBRENT mean the act of permitting a room to occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.39 ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 21 years.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.40 NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 21 years is in violation of this chapter if
the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this section if the
person under 21 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or visible
by any other person.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter if the person appears in a state of
nudity in an area of a nude motel studio premises which can be viewed from the
public right of way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.41 EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS, AND LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, other video reproduction, or live performance that depicts specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designed street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Town Administrator may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager' s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Town Administrator or his
designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two or more manager's stations designed, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required
in this section must be by direct line of sight from the manger's station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) remains unobstructed by any doors,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure
that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to division (A)(1) of this section.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot -candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
      (13)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other composition board or other porous material shall be
used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person, having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(14) of this
section is in violation of this ordinance if he/she knowingly fails to fulfill
that duty.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.42 EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.43 SIGNAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any sexually
oriented business or any other person to erect, construct, or maintain any sign
for the sexually oriented business other than the one primary sign and one
attached sign, as provided herein.
   (B)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each such
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (3)   Not exceed 125 square feet in area; and
      (4)   Not exceed 20 feet in height.
   (C)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   (D)   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid color,
and each such letter shall be the same print-type, size and color. The
background behind such lettering on display surface of a primary sign shall be
of a uniform and solid color.
   (E)   Attached signs shall have only one display surface. Such display
surface shall:
      (1)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (2)   Not exceed 32 square feet in area;
      (3)   Not exceed four feet in height and eight feet in width; and
      (4)   Be directly affixed or attached to any wall or door of the
enterprise.
   (F)   The provisions of (B)(1), (C)(1), and (D)(1) shall also apply to
secondary signs.
   (G)   Setback, height and any other provision of the zoning ordinance that
is not in conflict with this section shall apply.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.44 MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY A PERSON OF THE OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of such services is provided be a person of the opposite sex.
Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
§ 114.45 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and
Saturdays, and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. – , passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99 
ADMINISTRATION
§ 114.60 NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Town Administrator
or any other town office, division, department or other agency under this
chapter to any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may
be given either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address
as specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address
change that has been received by the Town Administrator. Notices mailed as
above shall be deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In
the event that any notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the
Town Administrator or his designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal
entrance to the establishment.
   (B)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Town Administrator
by any person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it
is received in the office of the Town Administrator.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the Town Administrator in
writing of any change of residence or mailing address.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 114.61 INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid business license or in violation of this ordinance is subject
to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Each
day a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate offence or
violation.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
§ 114.62 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state, a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (B)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college,, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
(Ord. – , passed - - )
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.01   Generally
   
130.02   Vagrants
   
130.03   House of ill fame
   
130.04   Profanity and boisterous conduct
   
130.05   Public drunkenness
   
130.06   Drinking in public
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.01 GENERALLY.
   No occupant of any house, whether residence or business, shall permit same
to be kept in an indecent and offensive or disorderly manner or permit loafers
or idle persons to congregate therein or in front of same to the annoyance of
persons passing by or living in the vicinity.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. I, § 1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 VAGRANTS.
   Any and all tramps, vagrants, persons under suspicion, who shall be found
with no visible means of support, either male or female, shall not be allowed
on the streets or other public places.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. I, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 HOUSE OF ILL FAME.
   No person shall keep a house or other place of ill fame in the town and no
person shall knowingly rent any house to be used as a house of ill fame. All
adult persons living in the house shall be considered as keepers thereof and be
subject to the penalties of this code.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. I, § 3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 PROFANITY AND BOISTEROUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use loud and boisterous language so
as to become a nuisance or use any form of profanity or indecent language on
the street or in a gathering or audience or assembly, or in any public place
whatsoever, or to indecently expose themselves within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. I, § 4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person to be on or upon any public
street or other public place.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. I, § 5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall consume, serve or drink wine, beer, whiskey or alcoholic
beverage of any kind on the public streets, boulevards, alleys or in public
buildings.
(Prior Code, Ch. I, Art. I, § 6) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   ZONING
      
152.   SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Inspector; county authorized
   
150.02   Building permit required
   
150.03   Building permit fee
   
150.04   National Building Code adopted
   
150.05   Storage tanks
Condemnation of Buildings
   
150.20   Inspection of dangerous buildings or structures
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING INSPECTOR; COUNTY AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   An officer or employee, as the Board may appoint, shall be the
Building Inspector of the town and he or she shall possess all the powers
conferred and perform all the duties prescribed by G.S. § 160A-411 and other
statutes applicable thereto.
   (B)   He or she shall possess the further power and perform the further
duties as may be prescribed by this chapter.
   (C)   He or she shall receive the fees allowed by statute.
   (D)   The Building Inspector or his or her deputy shall have the right to
enter, at all reasonable times, any building structure or premises, within the
town, for the purpose of inspecting, or in the performance of his or her
duties.
   (E)   He or she shall make, or cause to be made, the inspection of all
chimneys, flues and steam and fire openings within the town.
   (F)   He or she may, when occasion requires, appoint a deputy or deputies,
to perform any part of his or her duties.
   (G)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160-A-413, the Board of Aldermen requests and
authorizes the Haywood County Board of Commissioners to direct the County
Building Inspector to exercise their powers within the town and the
extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction of the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. J, Art. I, § 1) (Res. passed 8-9-2006)
§ 150.02 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to hereafter erect,
construct or build, or cause or authorize the same on any lot or parcel of land
within the corporate limits any building or structure of any kind or
description, without and until the person, firm or corporation first submits to
the Board of Aldermen through the office of the Town Administrator, a duly
signed and completed application for a building permit for a building or
structure, the application to be accompanied by plans and specifications for a
building or structure, the material to be used in the building or structure,
the purposes for which the building or structure is to be used; the location
thereof, the cost of a building or structure, and other information concerning
the same that will enable the Building Inspector to properly pass upon the
application of the person, firm or corporations, to erect, build or construct a
building or structure within the corporate limits and until the person, firm or
corporation obtains a permit to erect, build or construct a building or
structure as described in the application for permit, it shall be unlawful for
the person, firm or corporation to proceed with the erection, building or
construction of a building or structure, as herein provided.
(Prior Code, Ch. J, Art. I, § 2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 BUILDING PERMIT FEE.
   The sum of $3 shall be charged for all building permits above the amount of
$700.
(Prior Code, Ch. J, Art. I, § 3)
§ 150.04 NATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The "North Carolina State Building Code" and the "Uniform Residential
Building Code" found therein is hereby adopted as the official Building Code of
the town.
(Prior Code, Ch. J, Art. I, § 4)
§ 150.05 STORAGE TANKS.
   (A)   (1)   Residential outside aboveground storage of any flammable liquid
is prohibited in the town, except for limited quantities.
      (2)   Residential individual bulk storage tanks shall not exceed 550-
gallon capacity and then only when the storage would pose no hazard to nearby
persons or residential property.
   (B)   Businesses' bulk storage tanks will be reviewed on an individual basis
with prior approval of the Town Planning Board, the Board of Aldermen may issue
a permit for aboveground storage tanks; provided that, the property owner
assures compliance with all federal, state and local laws, rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, Ch. J, Art. I, § 5) (Ord. passed 9-10-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONDEMNATION OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.20 INSPECTION OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   Whenever the Board of Aldermen is informed that any building or other
structure within the town is especially dangerous in case of fire, by reason of
the bad conditions of walls, defective constructions, decay or other causes, or
is so situated as to endanger the lives of persons passing by or residing in
the vicinity thereof, it shall forthwith require the County Building Inspector
to make a survey of the building or structure and report to it their opinion of
the same. The Board may condemn, if necessary.
(Prior Code, Ch. J, Art. II, § 1)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING
Section
   
151.01   Zoning ordinance adopted by reference
§ 151.01 ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance of the town is adopted by reference as if set forth in
full in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3- -2005)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision ordinance adopted by reference
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision ordinance of the town is adopted by reference as if set
forth in full in this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 11- -2005)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances and Resolutions
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section        Code Section
14-4                73.99,
                    93.99
14-288.12           35.03
14-410 et seq.      Ch. 90
15-27.2             93.01
15A-1340.23         35.99
62-103(k)           111.01
67-4.1              93.01
67-4.1(a)(1),(2)    93.01
67-4.1(b)           93.01
67-30               93.60
130A-184 - 130A-201 93.20
130A-197            93.24
130A-198            93.23
130A-200            93.04
153A-127            93.03
153A-131            93.04
160A-175            10.99
160A-183            Ch. 90
160A-296            Ch. 91
160A-411            150.01
160D-1128           Ch. 90
166A, Article 1A    35.03
                    
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2010 Code Section
Prior Code Section   2010 Code Section
1.01                 93.01
1.02                 93.02
1.03                 93.03
1.04                 93.04
1.05                 93.05
1.06                 93.06
1.07                 93.07
1.09                 93.08
1.10                 93.09
1.20                 93.20
1.21                 93.21
1.22                 93.22
1.23                 93.23
1.24                 93.24
1.25                 93.25
1.26                 93.26
1.27                 93.27
1.28                 93.28
1.29                 93.29
1.40                 93.40
1.41                 93.41
1.42                 93.42
1.43                 93.43
1.44                 93.44
1.45                 93.45
1.46                 93.46
1.47                 93.47
1.60                 93.60
1.61                 93.61
1.62                 93.99
Ch. A, Art. I, § 1  30.01
Ch. A, Art. I, § 2  30.02
Ch. A, Art. I, § 3  30.03
Ch. A, Art. I, § 5  30.05
Ch. A, Art. I, § 7  30.07
Ch. A, Art. II, § 1 31.01
Ch. A, Art. II, § 2 31.02
Ch. A, Art. II, § 4 31.04
Ch. A, Art. III, § 132.01
Ch. A, Art. III, § 232.02
Ch. A, Art. III, § 332.03
Ch. A, Art. III, § 432.04
Ch. A, Art. IV, § 1 33.01
Ch. A, Art. IV, § 2 33.02
Ch. C, Art. II, § 2 90.01
Ch. D, Art. I, § 1  91.01
Ch. D, Art. I, § 2  91.02
Ch. D, Art. I, § 3  91.03
Ch. D, Art. I, § 4  91.04
Ch. D, Art. I, § 5  91.05
Ch. D, Art. I, § 7  91.07
Ch. D, Art. I, § 8  91.08
Ch. D, Art. II, § 1 91.20
Ch. D, Art. II, § 2 91.21
Ch. D, Art. II, § 3 91.22
Ch. D, Art. II, § 4 91.23
Ch. D, Art. II, § 5 91.24
Ch. D, Art. III, § 191.35
Ch. D, Art. III, § 291.36
Ch. D, Art. III, § 391.37
Ch. D, Art. III, § 491.38
Ch. D, Art. III, § 591.39
Ch. E, Art. I, § 1  50.01
Ch. E, Art. I, § 2  50.02
Ch. E, Art. I, § 3  50.03
Ch. E, Art. I, § 4  50.04
Ch. E, Art. I, § 5  50.05
Ch. E, Art. I, § 6  50.06
Ch. E, Art. I, § 7  50.07
Ch. E, Art. I, § 8  50.08
Ch. E, Art. I, § 9  50.09
Ch. E, Art. II, § 1 50.25
Ch. E, Art. II, § 2 50.26
Ch. E, Art. II, § 3 50.27
Ch. E, Art. II, § 4 50.28
Ch. E, Art. II, § 5 50.29
Ch. E, Art. II, § 6 50.30
Ch. E, Art. II, § 7 50.31
Ch. E, Art. II, § 8 50.32
Ch. E, Art. II, § 9 50.33
Ch. E, Art. II, § 1050.34
Ch. E, Art. II, § 1150.35
Ch. E, Art. II, § 1250.36
Ch. E, Art. II, § 1350.37
Ch. E, Art. III, § 150.38
Ch. F, Art. I, § 1  70.01
Ch. F, Art. II, § 1 71.01
Ch. F, Art. II, § 2 71.02
Ch. F, Art. II, § 3 71.03
Ch. F, Art. II, § 4 71.04
Ch. F, Art. II, § 5 71.05
Ch. F, Art. II, § 6 71.06
Ch. F, Art. III, § 172.01
Ch. F, Art. III, § 272.02
Ch. F, Art. III, § 372.03
Ch. F, Art. III, § 472.04
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 1 73.01
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 2 73.02
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 3 73.03
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 4 73.04
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 5 73.05
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 6 73.06
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 7 73.07
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 8 73.08
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 9 73.09
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 1073.10
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 1173.11
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 1273.12
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 1373.13
Ch. F, Art. IV, § 1473.14
Ch. F, Art. V, § 1  74.01
Ch. F, Art. V, § 2  74.02
Ch. F, Art. V, § 3  74.03
Ch. F, Art. V, § 4  74.04
Ch. F, Art. V, § 5  74.05
Ch. F, Art. V, § 6  74.06
Ch. F, Art. V, § 7  74.07
Ch. F, Art. V, § 8  74.08
Ch. F, Art. V, § 9  74.09
Ch. F, Art. V, § 10 74.10
Ch. F, Art. V, § 11 74.11
Ch. F, Art. V, § 12 74.12
Ch. F, Art. V, § 13 74.13
Ch. F, Art. V, § 14 74.14
Ch. F, Art. V, § 15 74.15
Ch. F, Art. V, § 16 74.16
Ch. F, Art. VI, § 1 74.30
Ch. F, Art. VI, § 2 74.31
Ch. F, Art. VI, § 3 74.32
Ch. F, Art. VI, § 4 74.33
Ch. F, Art. VI, § 5 74.34
Ch. G, Art. I, § 1  92.01
Ch. G, Art. I, § 2  92.02
Ch. G, Art. I, § 3  92.03
Ch. G, Art. I, § 4  92.04
Ch. G, Art. I, § 5  92.05
Ch. G, Art. I, § 6  92.06
Ch. G, Art. I, § 7  92.07
Ch. G, Art. I, § 8  92.08
Ch. G, Art. II, § 1 53.01
Ch. G, Art. II, § 2 53.02
Ch. G, Art. II, § 3 53.03
Ch. G, Art. II, § 4 53.04
Ch. G, Art. II, § 5 53.05
Ch. G, Art. II, § 7 53.06
Ch. G, Art. III, § 152.01
Ch. H, Art. I, § 1  110.01
Ch. H, Art. I, § 2  110.02
Ch. H, Art. I, § 3  110.03
Ch. H, Art. I, § 4  110.04
Ch. H, Art. I, § 5  110.05
Ch. H, Art. I, § 6  110.06
Ch. H, Art. I, § 7  110.07
Ch. H, Art. I, § 8  110.08
Ch. H, Art. I, § 9  110.09
Ch. H, Art. II, § 1 111.01
Ch. H, Art. II, § 2 111.02
Ch. H, Art. II, § 3 111.02
Ch. H, Art. II, § 4 111.04
Ch. H, Art. II, § 5 111.05
Ch. H, Art. II, § 6 111.06
Ch. H, Art. II, § 7 111.07
Ch. H, Art. II, § 8 111.08
Ch. I, Art. I, § 1  130.01
Ch. I, Art. I, § 2  130.02
Ch. I, Art. I, § 3  130.03
Ch. I, Art. I, § 4  130.04
Ch. I, Art. I, § 5  130.05
Ch. I, Art. I, § 6  130.06
Ch. I, Art. II, § 1 94.01
Ch. I, Art. II, § 2 94.01
Ch. I, Art. II, § 3 94.02
Ch. I, Art. III, § 1113.01
Ch. I, Art. III, § 2113.01
Ch. J, Art. I, § 1  150.01
Ch. J, Art. I, § 2  150.02
Ch. J, Art. I, § 3  150.03
Ch. J, Art. I, § 4  150.04
Ch. J, Art. I, § 5  150.05
Ch. J, Art. II, § 1 150.20
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 1 151.01
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 2 151.02
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 3 151.03
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 4 151.04
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 5 151.05
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 6 151.06
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 7 151.07
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 8 151.08
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 9 151.09
Ch. J, Art. IV, § 10151.10
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Ord. Section Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Ord. Section Code Section
–      - -                     50.10
–      - -                     50.38
–      -                       96.01 –
                                  96.15
–      - -                     114.01 –
                                  114.61
–      8-12-1981               112.01
–      4-14-1982               73.15
–      4-14-1982               73.99
–      8-15-1984               53.07
                                  95.01 ,
–      4-25-1990               95.02 ,
                                  95.99
–      3-18-1996               112.01
–      10- -2002               53.03
–      3- -2005                151.01
–      6-14-2006               91.09
–      8-9-2006                92.04
–      8-9-2006                150.01
–      9-13-2006               91.38
–      8- -2007    § 1.1       51.001
–      8- -2007    § 1.2       51.002
–      8- -2007    § 1.3       51.003
–      8- -2007    § 2.1       51.015
–      8- -2007    § 2.2       51.016
–      8- -2007    § 2.3       51.017
–      8- -2007    § 2.4       51.018
–      8- -2007    § 2.5       51.019
–      8- -2007    § 2.6       51.020
–      8- -2007    § 2.7       51.021
–      8- -2007    § 2.8       51.022
–      8- -2007    § 3.1       51.023
–      8- -2007    § 4.1       51.050
–      8- -2007    § 4.2.1     51.065
–      8- -2007    § 4.2.2     51.066
–      8- -2007    § 4.2.3     51.067
–      8- -2007    § 4.2.4     51.068
–      8- -2007    § 4.2.5     51.069
–      8- -2007    § 4.2.6     51.070
–      8- -2007    § 4.3.1     51.085
–      8- -2007    § 4.3.2     51.086
–      8- -2007    § 4.4       51.051
–      8- -2007    § 4.5       51.052
–      8- -2007    § 4.6       51.053
–      8- -2007    § 4.7       51.054
–      8- -2007    § 5.1       51.100
–      8- -2007    § 5.2       51.101
–      8- -2007    § 5.3       51.102
–      8- -2007    § 5.4       51.103
–      8- -2007    § 5.5       51.104
–      8- -2007    § 6         51.999
–      8- -2007    § 9         51.035
–      8- -2007    § 10        51.036
–      8- -2007    § 11        51.037
–      8- -2007    § 12        51.038
–      8- -2007    § 13        51.039
–      8- -2007    § 14        51.004
–      7-1-2008                50.06
–      9-10-2008               150.05
–      7-1-2009                50.06
–      8-10-2011               50.34
–      - -                     92.04
                                  35.01–
–      2-13-2013               35.08,
                                  35.99
–      4-13-2017               73.13
                                  34.01,
                                  35.05,
                                  70.01,
                                  71.02,
                                  71.03,
                                  71.05,
                                  72.01,
                                  73.13,
                                  74.04,
–      3-11-2021               91.20,
                                  92.04,
                                  93.25,
                                  94.01,
                                  96.01,
                                  96.15,
                                  113.01,
                                  114.13,
                                  114.14,
                                  114.32
                                  114.14,
–      3-11-2021               114.15,
                                  114.36
–      6-22-2023   § 1         73.16
                                
 
