TOWN OF COATS, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinances passed 1-15-2010
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com 
CHARTER
CHARTER
Section
   Disposition Table
   Related local laws
Editor’s note:
   This charter codification contains the basic charter as amended. Various
acts relating to the municipality which are not specific amendments to the
charter or its amendments but which are of a general and permanent nature are
also included. Excluded from the charter codification are local acts relating
to Mayor’s Court, issuance and sale of bonds, levy and collection of taxes and
conduct of elections. These types of local acts have been superseded by general
laws.
   The charter materials are arranged and grouped according to the subject
matter. Article headings, catchlines and catch phrases have been inserted and
the sections renumbered by the codifiers to facilitate indexing and for ease of
reference. Acts relating to the municipality, but not amendatory of the charter
or its amendments, are similarly included in the grouping entitled “Related
Local Laws”.
   Severability, repealer and effective date provisions are omitted. When a
section has been specifically amended or repealed by a later act, the amended
or repealed section has been deleted. All material contained within brackets
has been added by the codifiers to clarify or to correct the meaning of the
text or to refer the reader to a section as renumbered, within a given section.
   Immediately following the charter codification is a charter disposition
table, setting out in chronological order the old section number, date and
chapter number of the act, subject matter and the charter disposition.
§ 1 TOWN INCORPORATED; CORPORATE POWERS.
   That the town of Coats in the county of Harnett be and the same is hereby
incorporated under the name and style of the Town of Coats, and under and by
said name may sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, contract and be
contracted with, and acquire and hold property, real estate and personal, for
the use of the town, as its Board of Commissioners may deem expedient.
(Pr. L. 1904, C. 362, Sec. 1)
§ 2 CORPORATE LIMITS.
   That the corporate limits of said town shall be as follows: Beginning at a
stake in Vaden Barbour’s field and runs due east fifty chains to a stake in A.
Turner’s field; thence south fifty chains to a stake and pointers south of W.H.
Coats’ house; then west fifty chains to a stake and pointers in R. Parrish’s
line; thence north fifty chains to the beginning, containing two hundred and
fifty acres.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 2)
§ 3 CORPORATE LIMITS ENLARGED.
   That section two of chapter three hundred and sixty-two of the Private Laws
of one thousand nine hundred and five as amended be and the same is hereby
modified by enlarging the boundaries of the Town of Coats so that the
boundaries hereafter shall be as follows:
   Beginning at a stake corner in an old hedgerow path on the south side of a
branch, and runs thence north four degrees fifteen minutes east, sixty-nine and
twenty-five one hundredths chains (69.25) to a stake corner in Joseph Parrish’s
field; thence south eighty-five degrees forty-five minutes east, fifty-four and
fifty one hundredths chains (54.50) to a stake corner in a hedgerow between J.
Zeb. Williams and Elbert Capps, just east of and near said Capps’ residence;
thence south four degrees fifteen minutes west, passing northeast corner of
present limits of the town, and with the present eastern boundary line of the
town, passing southeastern corner of the present limits, sixty-nine and twenty-
five one hundredths chains (69.25) to a stake corner in open field; thence
north eighty-five degrees forty-five minutes west, fifty- four and fifty one
hundredths chains (54.50) to the beginning station, and is three hundred
seventy-seven and four tenths acres (377.4).
(Pr. L. 1939, C. 504, Sec. 1)
§ 4 OFFICERS OF TOWN; OTHER EMPLOYEES.
   That the officers of said town shall consist of a Mayor, [5] Commissioners,
and Marshal; and the Commissioners when qualified may elect a town clerk and
such other officers as they may deem necessary to the preservation and
regulation of the town’s interest.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 3) (Ord. passed 2-5-72)
Editor’s note:
   An ordinance enacted pursuant to G.S. § 160A-101 on February 5, 1972,
changed the number of Commissioners from four to five.
§ 5 MAYOR AND COMMISSIONERS; OTHER OFFICERS ELECTED; BOND.
   That until the election hereinafter provided for, the Mayor and
Commissioners provided for in the preceding section shall be as follows: J.K.
Steward, [Mayor]; R.M. Coats, J.G. Stephens, J.W. Talton, W.H. Coats,
Commissioners, who shall hold their respective offices until their successors
are elected and qualified. All other officers of said town shall [be] elected
by the Board of Commissioners, and such officers shall be required to enter
into bond, payable to the state for the faithful performance of their several
duties, into such amounts as to said board may seem just and reasonable.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 4)
§ 6 ELECTIONS; WHEN HELD; APPOINTMENT OF REGISTRARS AND JUDGES.
   Repealed.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 5)
§ 7 ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   Repealed.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 6)
§ 8 QUALIFICATION OF VOTERS.
   Repealed.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 7)
Editor’s note:
   Sections 6, 7 and 8 of this charter codification dealt with municipal
elections and have been repealed as conflicting with the Uniform Municipal
Election Law, G.S. §§ 163-279 et seq.
§ 9 ORDINANCE POWERS OF BOARD.
   That the Board of Commissioners may adopt and enact such ordinances, rules,
and regulations as to them may seem best for the government of said town,
preserving the peace, abating nuisances, and promoting sanitary conditions
therein, and may enforce the same by fine not exceeding fifty dollars, or
imprisonment not exceeding thirty days in the common jail of Harnett County or
on the streets or other public works of said town.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 8)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of town ordinances, G.S. § 160A-175
   General ordinance-making power, G.S. § 160A-174
§ 10 MAYOR’S COURT.
   Repealed.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 9)
§ 11 POWERS OF OFFICERS UNDER GENERAL LAW.
   That the Mayor, Board of Commissioners, Marshal, and all other officers of
said town shall have all the authority and power, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this act, which now belong to similar officers or which may
hereafter be conferred upon such officers by law of the state applicable to
towns and cities.
(Pr. L. 1905, C. 362, Sec. 10)
§ 12 COMMISSIONERS TO LEVY TAX; LIMIT.
   That the Board of Commissioners of the Town of Coats shall, not oftener than
annually, levy a tax on real and personal property situated within the limits
of said town, not exceeding fifty cents on each one hundred dollars’ valuation,
the constitutional equation to be ever observed.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 12)
Constitutional reference:
   Reference to a poll tax in this section has been deleted. Poll taxes
prohibited, see North Carolina Constitution, Article V, Section 1.
Statutory reference:
   Ad valorem taxation permitted up to $1.50 per $100 appraised valuation of
property, see G.S. § 160A-209
§ 13 TAX LISTS.
   Superseded.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 13)
Statutory reference:
   Superseding effect of the state Machinery Act, see G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.
§ 14 BOARD OF EQUALIZATION.
   Superseded.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 14)
Statutory reference:
   Superseding effect of the state Machinery Act, see G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.
§ 15 LICENSE TAXES; SUBJECTS OF; APPROPRIATION OF.
   That the said Board shall have the power, not oftener than annually, to
impose and collect license taxes for the privilege of carrying on business or
doing within the corporation any of the acts named in this section, viz.: on
all circuses, shows, exhibitions for reward, all gift enterprises, each
billiard or pool table, bowling alley or alley of a like kind, bagatelle table
or any other table, stand, or place for any other game or play, with or without
name, unless such alley, stand, place, or game or table is kept for private
amusement or exercise alone and not prohibited by law and not kept or used in
connection with any place where liquors are sold; every merchant, peddler,
grocer, druggist, and other trader who, as principal or agent, carries on the
business of buying and selling goods, wares, or merchandise of whatsoever name
or description; hotels, boarding houses, restaurants, and eating houses;
auctioneers, commission merchants or agents, brokerage factors, or other
persons who deal upon a brokerage or percentage basis; life or fire insurance
agents and sewing machine agents, lightning rod agents; every horse or mule
drover or person who buys and sells or receives horses or mules or both for
sale, and every person who keeps horses or mules for hire; every itinerant
dentist or medical practitioner, portrait or miniature painter, and every
person taking likenesses of the human face; on every itinerant soliciting
orders for portraits, pictures, and other like articles who delivers the same;
every butcher or dealer in fresh meats; barber shops, fresh fish dealers—said
Board shall have power to regulate the sale of fresh meats and fresh fish by
restricting their sale to certain localities in said town; every huckster,
trader, merchant, or his or their agents, who buy products for sale upon other
markets; every owner or driver of a dray used for transportation of passengers
for hire within or without said town; upon all persons, corporations, firms, or
franchises within the Town of Coats that may be taxed by the General Assembly;
upon all dogs. The Board shall use the proceeds of this taxation to defray the
expenses of the town and for the improvement thereof, and the same shall be
deposited and covered into the general fund in the hands of the treasurer in
like manner as other moneys are by said treasurer received and deposited.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 15)
Cross-reference:
   Schedule of privilege license taxes, see §
110.09 of this code of ordinances
Statutory reference:
   Privilege license taxes, see G.S. § 160A-211
§ 16 COLLECTION OF LICENSE TAXES.
   That all license taxes shall be collected by the Chief of Police or Tax
Collector, who shall collect the same and issue a license therefor, signed by
the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk, which license shall not extend beyond
June first next after it is issued, and which license shall be taken from a
book of blanks to be furnished by the Board, and it shall be the duty of the
Clerk to number consecutively each and every license issued and keep a true and
full stub thereof in said blank license book and, when removed from said
license book, it shall thereupon be immediately chargeable against said Chief
of Police or Tax Collector; and no license not so issued shall be valid as
evidence of a payment of the sum therein named, or for the purpose of carrying
on the business or other act therein designated; provided that in proper cases
said Board may relieve said Chief of Police or Tax Collector from the charge
therefor upon his presentation to said Board of said license so taken from said
book, and then the Clerk, after order thereto, exhibiting to said Board a
proper entry across the face of the corresponding stub thereof of the final
disposition of such license, and that the same be destroyed by said Board at
the meeting wherein the other acts herein mentioned with reference thereto
occur; provided further that the signature of the said Mayor may be by stamp or
stencil, and that of said Clerk shall be only upon detachment of said license
from said license book.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 16)
Statutory reference:
   Privilege license tax administration, G.S. §§ 105-33 et seq.
§ 17 TAX BOOKS.
   Superseded.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 17)
Statutory reference:
   Superseding effect of the state Machinery Act, see G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.
§ 18 BOARD TO ACCESS TAX.
   Superseded.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 18)
Statutory reference:
   Superseding effect of the state Machinery Act, see G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.
§ 19 ORDER TO COLLECT TAXES; FORM OF ORDER.
   Superseded.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 19)
Statutory reference:
   Superseding effect of the state Machinery Act, see G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.
§ 20 TAX COLLECTOR TO GARNISHEE.
   Superseded.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 20)
Statutory reference:
   Superseding effect of the state Machinery Act, see G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.
§ 21 COLLECTION BY DISTRESS.
   Superseded.
(Pr. L. 1907, C. 409, Sec. 21)
Statutory reference:
   Superseding effect of the state Machinery Act, see G.S. §§ 105-271 et seq.
CHARTER - DISPOSITION TABLE
Act and Date Original Section Subject Charter Disposition
CHARTER - DISPOSITION TABLE
Act and   Original    Subject          Charter Disposition
Date      Section
          1           Town             § 1
                      incorporated
          Pr. L.
          1907, C.    12 - 21          Taxes         §§ 12 - 21
          409
          Pr. L.                       Graded School
          1913, C.                     District      Deleted, obsolete
          267
          Pr. L.                       Cotton
          1913, C.                     Weigher       Deleted, obsolete
          411
          Pr. L.                       Bonds for
          1913,                        Graded        Deleted, obsolete
          Ex. Sess.,                   School
          C. 81                        District
Pr. L.                                 Bonds for
1905, C.  Pr. L.                       Graded        Deleted, obsolete
362       1917, C. 53                  School
                                       District
          Pr. L.                       Appointment
          1933, C.                     of Mayor and  Deleted, obsolete
          245                          4
                                       Commissioners
          Pr. L.                       Appointment
          1935, C.                     of Mayor and  Deleted, obsolete
          250                          4
                                       Commissioners
          Pr. L.                       Corporate
          1939, C.                     Limits        § 3
          504
          Sess. L.                     Compensation
          1957, C.                     of            Repealed by G.S. § 160A-
          1313                         Town          64
                                       Officials
Sess. L.              Extraterritorial
1961, C.              Jurisdiction     Superseded by G.S. § 160A-286
428                   of Police
Sess. L.              Municipal
1969, C.              Election         Repealed by G.S. §§ 163-279 et seq.
160                   Procedures
Ord.                  Number of
passed 2-             Commissioners    § 4
5-72
 
RELATED LOCAL LAWS
PRIVATE LAWS 1919, CHAPTER 55
CONVEYANCE OF REAL ESTATE
Section
§ 1 AUTHORIZATION TO CONVEY.
   That the Board of Commissioners for the Town of Coats be and they are hereby
authorized and empowered, in their discretion, to cause the property or any
part thereof designated on the official map of the Town of Coats as that part
of Dooley Street extending from the Durham and Southern Railroad Company right-
of-way to McKinley Street, to be conveyed to the bona fide occupants and
claimants thereof by deed of said Town executed in the name of the Town of
Coats by its mayor, attested by its Clerk and sealed with its common or
corporate seal and acknowledged as provided by law for acknowledgment of deeds
of corporations.
(Pr. L. 1919, C. 55)
§ 2 GRANTEE VESTED WITH TITLE.
   That the effect of any such deed shall be to vest in the grantee all the
rights, title, interest, estate, and easement of the Town of Coats and the
public in the lands therein described.
(Pr. L. 1919, C. 55)
SESSION LAWS 1955, CHAPTER 754
CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION EXPENDITURES
§ 1 COUNTY COMMISSIONERS AUTHORIZED TO APPROPRIATE AND EXPEND NONTAX FUNDS.
   That the Board of County Commissioners of Harnett County be and it is hereby
authorized and empowered in its discretion to appropriate and expend not more
than twenty-five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) on nontax funds for the centennial
celebration of Harnett County.
(Sess. L. 1955, C. 754)
§ 2 TOWNS AUTHORIZED.
   That the governing bodies of the towns of Angier, Coats, Dunn, and
Lillington be and they are each authorized and empowered in their discretion to
expend not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of nontax funds for the
centennial celebration of Harnett County.
(Sess. L. 1955, C. 754)
SESSION LAWS 1957, CHAPTER 613
VOLUNTEER FIREMEN EXEMPT FROM JURY DUTY
§ 1 FIREMEN DESIGNATED; NAMES FILED.
   All active volunteer firemen of the Town of Coats, who have performed all
duties required of them as volunteer firemen and who are in good standing with
their respective fire departments and with the North Carolina State Firemen’s
Association, shall be exempt from service as jurors. On the first day of
January and July of each year, beginning with the first day of July, 1957, the
Fire Chief of the Town of Coats shall file with the Clerk of the Superior Court
of Harnett County a statement giving the name of each member of his
organization who is in good standing with this fire department and with the
North Carolina State Firemen’s Association, and who has performed all duties
required of him as a volunteer fireman during the preceding six months; and any
member of such fire department whose name does not appear upon such statement
shall not receive the benefit or the exemption provided for herein during the
six months immediately following the filing of the statement.
(Sess. L. 1957, C. 613)
§ 2 CLERK OF SUPERIOR COURT EMPOWERED TO EXCUSE EXEMPTED PERSONS.
   The Clerk of the Superior Court of Harnett County is hereby empowered to
excuse from jury duty any person or persons exempt under the provisions of this
Act prior to the convening of the term of court for which such person or
persons are required to serve as jurors.
(Sess. L. 1957, C. 613)
SESSION LAWS 1967, CHAPTER 604
(as amended by Sess. L. 1971, C. 199)
LIQUOR CONTROL STORE
§ 1 SPECIAL ELECTION.
   The governing body of the Town of Coats may on its own motion, or shall if
requested by a petition signed by at least fifteen percent (15%) of the
registered voters of Coats, order an election to be held on the question of
whether or not a town liquor control store may be operated in the Town of
Coats; and if a majority of the votes cast in such election shall be for the
operation of such a store, it shall be legal for a liquor control store to be
set upon and operated in said town; but if a majority of the votes cast in said
election shall be against the operation of a town liquor control store, no such
store shall be set up or operated in said town under provisions of this Act. In
the event the governing body of the Town of Coats on its own motion orders a
special election herein provided for, said election shall be held on such date
as determined by said governing body. Provided, that the special election shall
not be held on or within 60 days of any biennial election for county officers.
(Sess. L. 1967, C. 604)
§ 2 NOTICE OF ELECTION; REGISTRATION; BALLOTS.
   In calling for such special liquor election, the said governing body shall
give at least 30 days’ public notice of the same prior to the opening of the
registration books, and said registration books shall remain open for eight
days before such special liquor election. A new registration of voters for such
special liquor election shall not be necessary and all qualified electors who
are properly registered prior to registration for the special election and
those who register in said special liquor election shall be entitled to vote in
said election. In said election a ballot shall be used upon which shall be
printed on separate lines for each proposition, “For Town Liquor Control
Store,” “Against Town Liquor Control Store.” Those favoring setting up and
operating a liquor store in the Town of Coats shall mark in the voting square
to the left of the words “For Town Liquor Control Store,” printed on the
ballot; and those opposed to a town liquor control store shall mark in the
voting space to the left of the words “Against Town Liquor Control Store.”
Except as otherwise herein provided, the special election authorized shall be
conducted under the same statutes, rules, and regulations applicable to
municipal elections in the Town of Coats.
(Sess. L. 1967, C. 604)
§ 3 DEFEAT OF CONTROL STORE; PROCEDURES.
   If, after the first election, upon a petition signed by at least fifteen
percent (15%) of the registered and qualified voters of the town, the governing
body shall call an election and at such election a majority of the votes shall
be cast “Against Town Liquor Control Store,” the town liquor control board
shall within three months from the canvassing of such votes and the declaration
of the result thereof, close said store and shall thereafter cease to operate
the same, and within said three months the town control board shall dispose of
all alcoholic beverages on hand, all fixtures, and all other property in the
hands and under the control of said board and convert the same into cash and
turn the same over to the town treasurer. Thereafter, all public, public-local,
and private laws applicable to the sale of intoxicating beverages within said
Town of Coats in force and effect prior to the authorization to operate a town
liquor store shall be in full force and effect the same as if such election had
not been held until and unless another election is held under the provision of
this Act in which a majority of the votes shall be cast “For Town Liquor
Control Store.” No election shall be called and held in the Town of Coats under
the provisions of this section within three years from the holding of the last
election thereunder. It shall be the duty of the governing body of the Town of
Coats to order the special liquor election herein authorized in this section
within 60 days after a sufficient petition has been filed requesting the same.
But no election under this Act shall be held on the day of any biennial county
or Town of Coats general election or primary election, or within 30 days of any
such election.
(Sess. L. 1967, C. 604)
§ 4 AUTHORIZATION OF CONTROL STORE; BOARD OF ALCOHOLIC CONTROL - TERM, DUTIES,
ETC.
   If the operation of a town liquor control store is authorized under the
provisions of this Act, the mayor and governing body of the Town of Coats shall
immediately create a town Board of Alcoholic Control to be composed of a
chairman and two other members who shall be well known for their character,
ability, and business acumen. Said board shall be known and designated as “The
Town of Coats Board of Alcoholic Control.” The chairman of said board shall be
designated by the governing body of the town and shall serve for his first term
a period of three years, and one member shall serve for his first term a period
of two years, and the other member shall serve for a period of one year, and
all terms shall begin with the date of their appointment, and after the same
terms shall have expired, their successors in office shall serve for a period
of three years. Their successors, or any vacancy occurring in the board, shall
be named or filled by the governing body of the town. Members of the town board
may serve as members of the Board of Alcoholic Control. The Board of Alcoholic
Control shall report monthly to the town board the status and financial
condition of the Alcoholic Control Board and the books of the said Board of
Alcoholic Control shall be available for inspection and examination by the
members of the town board at any time.
(Sess. L. 1967, C. 604)
§ 5 BOARD OF ALCOHOLIC CONTROL - POWERS.
   The said Town of Coats Board of Alcoholic Control shall have all of the
powers and duties imposed by G.S. § 18-45 on County Board of Alcoholic Control,
except as otherwise provided here, and shall be subject to the powers and
authority of the State Board of Alcoholic Control the same as county boards of
alcoholic control as provided in G.S. § 18-39. The said Town of Coats Board of
Alcoholic Control and the operation of any town liquor store authorized under
the provisions of this Act shall be subject to and in pursuance with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 18, Art. 3, except to the extent which the same may be
in conflict with the provisions of this Act. Wherever the word “County” Board
of Alcoholic Control appears in said Article, it shall include the Town of
Coats Board of Alcoholic Control.
(Sess. L. 1967, C. 604)
Statutory reference:
   G.S. Ch. 18 has been repealed. For current alcohol regulations, see G.S. Ch.
18B
§ 6 DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS.
   The net profits, as determined by quarterly audit, shall be distributed and
used as follows:
   1.   Twenty-five percent (25%) of the net profit shall be paid to the Coats
Recreation Committee.
   2.   Ten percent (10%) of the net profit, which shall be a part of the
profits referred to in the following subsection, may be used by the town
Alcoholic Control Board, in its discretion, for educationally programs as to
the effect of the use of alcoholic beverages and for the rehabilitation of
alcoholics. Whenever a person becomes an inebriate from the use of alcoholic
beverages and has been committed by the Clerk of Court of Harnett County, as
provided in G.S. § 35-2, the town Alcoholic Control Board shall pay to the
county such charges, provided that the town Alcoholic Control Board shall not
be required to pay any such charges except where it has agreed with the Clerk
of Superior Court to pay such charges prior to the person’s commitment. The
town Alcoholic Control Board is authorized to participate in and to make
contributions to public and private organizations which have rehabilitation
programs for alcoholics, when the organization and its programs have been
approved by the Board. Nothing herein shall be construed as limiting the
Alcoholic Control Board’s discretion in establishing its educational and
rehabilitation program and expenditures therefor within the ten percent (10%)
of net profits herein allocated.
   3.   Seventy-five percent (75%) of the net profits shall be allocated to the
general fund of the Town of Coats. The governing body of the town is hereby
authorized to appropriate such funds for any proper governmental purpose. Out
of the funds allocated to it, the governing body of the town is specifically
authorized to expend up to twenty-five percent (25%) of such funds for
recreational programs in the town.
(Sess. L. 1967, C. 604; amended by Sess. L. 1971, C. 199)
Statutory reference:
   G.S. § 35-2 has been repealed. For current incompetency and guardianship
regulations, see G.S. Ch. 35A
§ 7 GENERAL LAW LIMITATION.
   The provisions of G.S. § 18-45(o) shall not apply to the town Board of
Alcoholic Control.
Editor’s note:
   An election was held on August 26, 1967 pursuant to the authority of this
legislation, resulting in the establishment of liquor control stores within the
corporate limits of the Town of Coats.
Statutory reference:
   G.S. Ch. 18 has been repealed. For current alcohol regulations, see G.S. Ch.
18B
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Coats, North
Carolina, shall be designated as the Code of Coats and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or BOARD. The legislative body of the Town of
Coats.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This town code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Harnett County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the town unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Coats, North
Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
of Commissioners or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all town business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Board of Commissioners requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Board of Commissioners shall desire to amend any existing
chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically
repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment,
substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25 passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-6) (Ord. 10 passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code was derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in a prior year, as subsequently amended, the
prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(Prior Code, §
     ).”
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate any provision of this code of ordinances, except
any provision regulating the operation or parking of vehicles, the person shall
be guilty of a Class Three misdemeanor and shall be fined up to $500 or
imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(G.S. § 14-4(a)) (Prior Code, § 10.99)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   PURCHASING
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Committees
Meetings
   
30.15   Regular meetings; time and place
   
30.16   Adjournment in absence of quorum and the like
   
30.17   Order of business; precedence of special business
   
30.18   Propositions to be seconded; reduction of propositions to writing
   
30.19   Calling for previous question and the like
   
30.20   Review of previously decided question; reconsideration of vote
   
30.21   Motions having precedence
   
30.22   Amendments and substitutes
   
30.23   Motions to adjourn
   
30.24   When elections to be by ballot
   
30.25   Resignation of members
Ordinances
   
30.40   Ordinances confined to one subject
   
30.41   Official copy
Cross-reference:
   Departments, Boards and Commissions, see
Ch. 32
   Permitting the posting of signs on municipal property regarding carrying
concealed weapons, see
Ch. 130
   Police Department, see
Ch. 33
   Town Officials, see
Ch. 31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 COMMITTEES.
   The Mayor and Commissioners may create such committees of the Board for
special purposes as they deem best.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
MEETINGS
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   The regular meetings of the Mayor and Board of Commissioners of the town
shall be held on the second Thursday of each month, at 7:00 p.m., at the Town
Hall unless otherwise designated by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.15) (Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Provisions concerning regular meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.16 ADJOURNMENT IN ABSENCE OF QUORUM AND THE LIKE.
   If a quorum shall fail to attend any regular or special meeting of the Board
or, if for any reason, the meeting shall fail to complete transaction of the
business before the meeting, the meeting may be adjourned to any date prior to
the next regular meeting, agreed upon by a majority of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum requirements, see G.S. § 160A-74
§ 30.17 ORDER OF BUSINESS; PRECEDENCE OF SPECIAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   The order of business at all regular meetings of the Board will be,
unless the Board directs otherwise, as follows:
      (1)   Roll call of members;
      (2)   Reading of minutes of last meeting;
      (3)   Correction of minutes;
      (4)   Receipt of petitions;
      (5)   Reports of committees;
      (6)   Reports of officers;
      (7)   Unfinished business;
      (8)   New business; and
      (9)   Auditing bills.
   (B)   If the Board directs any matter to be the special business of a future
meeting, the same shall have precedence over all other business at the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)
§ 30.18 PROPOSITIONS TO BE SECONDED; REDUCTION OF PROPOSITIONS TO WRITING.
   At meetings of the Board, no proposition shall be entertained by the Mayor
until it has been seconded and every proposition shall, when required by the
Mayor or any member, be reduced to writing.
(Prior Code, § 30.18) (Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
§ 30.19 CALLING FOR PREVIOUS QUESTION AND THE LIKE.
   The previous questions may be called at any time by a majority of the
members present at a meeting of the Board. The ayes and nays may be called for
by any member of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.20)
§ 30.20 REVIEW OF PREVIOUSLY DECIDED QUESTION; RECONSIDERATION OF VOTE.
   No question decided by the Board shall be again brought forward at any
subsequent meeting, except upon motion made by some member who voted with the
majority. A motion to reconsider a vote shall not be in order, except at the
same or succeeding adjourned meeting of the Board to that which the vote was
taken; provided that, a vote or question may be reconsidered at any time by a
vote of two-thirds of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.21)
§ 30.21 MOTIONS HAVING PRECEDENCE.
   (A)   When, at a meeting of the Board, a question is under consideration, no
motion shall be received except as follows:
      (1)   To lay on the table;
      (2)   To postpone to a time certain;
      (3)   To postpone indefinitely;
      (4)   To refer to a committee;
      (5)   To amend;
      (6)   To strike out or insert; and
      (7)   To divide.
   (B)   Motions for any of these purposes shall have precedence in the order
named.
(Prior Code, § 30.22)
§ 30.22 AMENDMENTS AND SUBSTITUTES.
   The provisions of this section shall apply at all meetings of the Board. All
amendments shall be considered in the order in which they are moved. When a
proposed amendment is under consideration, a motion to amend the same may be
made. No further amendment to the second amendments shall be in order, but when
an amendment to an amendment is under consideration, a substitute for the whole
matter may be received. No proposition on a subject different from the one
under consideration shall be received under color of a substitute.
(Prior Code, § 30.23)
§ 30.23 MOTIONS TO ADJOURN.
   At a meeting of the Board, a motion to adjourn shall always be in order and
shall be decided without debate.
(Prior Code, § 30.24)
§ 30.24 WHEN ELECTIONS TO BE BY BALLOT.
   All elections by the Board shall be by ballot if required by any two members
of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 30.25)
§ 30.25 RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS.
   The resignation of any member of the Board shall be in writing. The
resignation shall lie on the table until the next regular meeting unless
considered by unanimous consent.
(Prior Code, § 30.26)
ORDINANCES
§ 30.40 ORDINANCES CONFINED TO ONE SUBJECT.
   All ordinances shall be confined to one subject, except appropriation
ordinances, which shall be confined to the subject of appropriations only.
(Prior Code, § 30.40)
§ 30.41 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance which has been duly enacted by the Board, signed
by the Mayor, and attested to by the Clerk-Treasurer shall be known as an
official copy of any ordinance for the town. All ordinances or a true copy
thereof shall be inserted in this code in the proper chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30.41) (Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Pleading and proving town ordinances, G.S. § 160A-79
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Mayor
   
31.02   Town Manager
   
31.03   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.04   Deputy Clerk
   
31.05   Assignment of functions
§ 31.01 MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall preside at all Board meetings, but shall have the right to
vote only when there are equal numbers of votes in the affirmative and in the
negative.
§ 31.02 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Council-manager form. Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-101 and 160A-102, the
Charter of the town, as set forth in Chapter 362 of the 1905 Private Laws of
the state, as amended, is hereby further amended to provide that the town shall
operate under the council-manager form of government in accordance with G.S.
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 2, and any charter provisions not in conflict therewith.
   (B)   Notice of council-manager form of government. The Town Clerk-Treasurer
shall cause a notice to be duly published, stating that an ordinance amending
the Charter to adopt the council-manager form of government has been adopted.
Subject to any referendum petitioned for and conducted pursuant to G.S. § 160A-
103, this section shall be in full force and effect from and after 1-1-2009.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
   (C)   Powers and duties of managers. The Manager shall be the Chief
Administrator of the town. He or she shall be responsible to the Board for
administering all municipal affairs placed in his or her charge by them, and
shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   He or she shall appoint and suspend or remove all town officers ad
employees not elected by the people and whose appointment or removal is not
otherwise provided for by law, except the city attorney, in accordance with
general personnel rules, regulations, policies, or ordinances as the Board may
adopt.
      (2)   He or she shall direct or supervise the administration of all
departments, offices, and agencies of the town, subject to the general
direction and control of the Council, except as otherwise provided by law.
      (3)   He or she shall attend all meetings of the Board and recommend any
measures that he or she deems expedient.
      (4)   He or she shall see that any laws of the state, the city charter,
and the ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of the Council are faithfully
executed within the town.
      (5)   He or she shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital
program to the Board.
      (6)   He or she shall annually submit to the Board and make available to
the pubic a complete report on the finances and administrative activities of
the town as of the end of the fiscal year.
      (7)   He or she shall make any other reports that the Board may require
concerning the operations of town departments, offices, and agencies subject to
his or her direction and control.
      (8)   He or she shall perform any other duties that may be required or
authorized by the Board.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Mayor, G.S. § 160A-69
§ 31.03 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Appointment. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed by the Board at
the organizational meeting each year.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall attend all meetings of the Board and
shall regularly and fairly record all of its proceedings in a book to be kept
by the Clerk-Treasurer for that purpose. He or she shall also keep a well-bound
book to be styled the Code of Ordinances, in which the Clerk-Treasurer shall
fairly and correctly transcribe all ordinances which are enacted by the Board.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk-Treasurer to keep true, accurate
and just books of accounts of the dealings and transactions of the town. The
books shall show at all times the true condition of the town, its resources and
liabilities and the disposition and use of the moneys coming under the control
of the town.
      (3)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept in a safe place
all moneys, records and accounts.
      (4)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall disburse funds for the various purposes
of the town only when an appropriation for such purpose has been made in the
annual budget and the disbursement is authorized by the Board.
      (5)   The Clerk-Treasurer shall perform such other duties as the Board
may from time to time require.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. passed 6-14-2001)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Town Clerk, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Duties of the Town Finance Officer, see G.S. §§ 159-24 and 159-25
§ 31.04 DEPUTY CLERK.
   The Board may provide for the appointment of a Deputy Clerk to perform the
duties normally assigned to specific officers under applicable state laws or
any of the duties normally assigned the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
Statutory reference:
   Deputy Clerk, G.S. § 160A-172
§ 31.05 ASSIGNMENT OF FUNCTIONS.
   The Board may assign the functions of any town employees or officers to any
other employees or officers and may generally organize the administrative
government of the town, including the appointment of the Town Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31.06)
Statutory reference:
   Board to organize town government, G.S. § 160A-146
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Operating departments enumerated
   
32.02   Appointments to boards and commissions
Park and Recreation Committee
   
32.20   Committee established
   
32.21   Election of members; term
   
32.22   Composition; Chair
   
32.23   Budget
   
32.24   Activity reports
Planning Board
   
32.40   Planning Board created
   
32.41   Membership and vacancies; attendance; compensation
   
32.42   Organization, rules, meetings and records
   
32.43   Jurisdiction and voting
   
32.44   General powers and duties
   
32.45   Basic studies
   
32.46   Comprehensive plans
   
32.47   Zoning amendments
   
32.48   Subdivision regulations
   
32.49   Public facilities
   
32.50   Miscellaneous powers and duties
   
32.51   Annual report, analysis of expenditures and budget request
Cemetery Commission
   
32.60   Establishment of town cemetery
   
32.61   Establishment of Cemetery Commission
   
32.62   Cemetery Commission; members; terms of office
   
32.63   Cemetery Commission; duties; obligations and powers
   
32.64   Ex-officio members
Cross-reference:
   Cemetery regulations, see
Ch. 91
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 OPERATING DEPARTMENTS ENUMERATED.
   The operating departments of the town shall be as follows: Police
Department, Public Works Department, Finance Department and Parks and
Recreation Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENTS TO BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   All appointments to boards and commissions will be at the first regular
meeting of the Board in January of each year.
(Prior Code, § 32.03)
PARK AND RECREATION COMMITTEE
§ 32.20 COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED.
   A Park and Recreation Committee for the citizens of the town and the
surrounding rural area is hereby established and shall be hereafter known as
the Coats Park and Recreation Committee.
(Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. passed 6-1-1971)
§ 32.21 ELECTION OF MEMBERS; TERM.
   The members of the Park and Recreation Committee shall be elected by the
Board in its regular meeting in January of each and every year to serve for a
period of one year or until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 32.21) (Ord. passed 6-1-1971)
§ 32.22 COMPOSITION; CHAIR.
   The Park and Recreation Committee shall be composed of not less than five
members and not more than seven members, with one member to be designated as
the Chair of the Committee. One member shall be a Town Commissioner.
(Prior Code, § 32.22) (Ord. passed 6-1-1971)
§ 32.23 BUDGET.
   The Park and Recreation Committee shall submit its budget unto the Board not
later than the April regular meeting of the Board of each and every year.
(Prior Code, § 32.23) (Ord. passed 6-1-1971)
§ 32.24 ACTIVITY REPORTS.
   The Park and Recreation Committee shall submit a report of its plans for
activities for the coming year (summer) to the Board not later than the May
regular meeting of the Board of each and every year.
(Prior Code, § 32.24) (Ord. passed 6-1-1971)
Statutory reference:
   For provisions regarding recreation, see G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 18
PLANNING BOARD
§ 32.40 PLANNING BOARD CREATED.
   A Planning Board for the town is hereby created to perform the functions and
the duties prescribed in this subchapter pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-361 and 160A-
362.
(Prior Code, § 32.40) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980)
§ 32.41 MEMBERSHIP AND VACANCIES; ATTENDANCE; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall consist of seven members. Five members shall
be citizens and residents of the town, and shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners; two members shall be citizens of the county who reside outside
the town but within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town as specified
by an extraterritorial boundary ordinance adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160A-360
(b), and shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners of the county. The
members of the Planning Board shall serve for terms of three years, the terms
to be staggered as follows: the initial member shall be appointed for the
following terms of office: two members for one year; two members appointed by
County Board of Commissioners for two years; and three members for three years.
   (B)   Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of term shall be
filled as they occur for the unexpired remainder of the term. Faithful
attendance at meetings of the Board is to be considered a prerequisite to
continued membership, and the Board of Commissioners may remove and replace any
member continually delinquent in his or her duty to attend. Compensation of
Board members shall be set by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 32.41) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 32.42 ORGANIZATION, RULES, MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   The Planning Board shall elect a chairperson and create and fill such other
offices as it may determine. The term of the Chairperson and other officers
shall be one year, with eligibility for re-election. The Board shall adopt
rules for transaction of its business and shall keep a record of its members’
attendance and of its resolutions, discussions, findings and recommendations,
which record shall be a public record maintained in the Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office. The Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly and all of its
meetings shall be open to the public. There shall be a quorum of five members
for the purpose of taking any official action.
(Prior Code, § 34.42) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980)
§ 32.43 JURISDICTION AND VOTING.
   The two members appointed to the Planning Board by the Board of County
Commissioners as representatives of the extraterritorial zoning area outside
the town shall have equal rights, privileges and duties with the other members
of the Board in all matters pertaining to the regulation of both the
extraterritorial area and the area within the corporate limits. Five members of
the Board shall constitute a quorum for the taking of any action on any matter.
(Prior Code, § 32.43) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 32.44 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Planning Board, in general to:
   (A)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
   (B)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
   (C)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
   (D)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative procedures
and other means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners may
direct;
   (E)   Advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the use and amendment of
means for carrying out plans;
   (F)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners may
direct; and
   (G)   Perform any other related duties that the Board of Commissioners may
direct.
(Prior Code, § 32.44) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 32.45 BASIC STUDIES.
   (A)   As background for its comprehensive plans and any ordinances it may
prepare, the Planning Board may gather maps and aerial photographs of human-
made and natural physical features of the area, statistics on past trends and
present conditions with respect to population property values, the economic
base of the community, land use and other information as is important or likely
to be important in determining the amount, direction and kind of development to
be expected in the area and its various parts.
   (B)   In addition, the Planning Board may make, cause to be made or obtain
special studies on the location, condition and adequacy of specific facilities,
which may include, but are not limited to, studies of housing, commercial and
industrial facilities, parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities, public
and private utilities and traffic, transportation and parking facilities.
   (C)   All officials of the town shall, upon request, furnish to the Planning
Board available records or information as it may require in its work. The Board
or its agents may, in the performance of its official duties, enter upon lands
and make examinations or surveys and maintain necessary monuments thereon.
(Prior Code, § 32.45) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980)
§ 32.46 COMPREHENSIVE PLANS.
   (A)   The comprehensive plans, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and
descriptive matter, shall be and show the Planning Board’s recommendations to
the Board of Commissioners for the development of the area, including, among
other things, the general location, character and extent of streets, bridges,
boulevards, parkways, playgrounds, squares, parks, aviation fields and other
public ways, grounds and open spaces; the general location and extent of public
utilities and terminals, whether publicly- or privately-owned or operated, for
water, power, gas, sanitation, transportation, communication and other
purposes; and the removal, relocation, widening, narrowing, vacating,
abandonment, change of use or extension of any of the foregoing ways,
buildings, grounds, open spaces, properties, utilities or terminals.
   (B)   The comprehensive plans and any ordinances or other measures to
effectuate the plans shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and harmonious development of the town
and its environs which will, in accordance with present and future needs, best
promote health, safety, morals and the general welfare, as well as efficiency
and economy in the process of development, including, among other things,
adequate provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other
dangers, adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of the healthful
and convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design
and arrangement, the wise and efficient expenditure of public funds and the
adequate provision of public utilities, services and other public requirements.
(Prior Code, § 32.46) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980)
§ 32.47 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   The Planning Board may initiate, from time to time, proposals for amendment
of the zoning ordinance and map, based upon its studies and plans. In addition,
it shall review and make recommendations to the Board of Commissioners
concerning all proposed amendments to the zoning ordinance and map.
(Prior Code, § 32.47) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980)
§ 32.48 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall review, from time to time, the existing
regulations for the control of land subdivision in the area and submit to the
Board of Commissioners its recommendations, if any, for the revision of the
regulations.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall review and make recommendations to the Board
of Commissioners concerning all proposed plats of land subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 32.48) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980)
§ 32.49 PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   The Planning Board shall review with the Mayor and other town officials and
report its recommendations to the Board of Commissioners upon the extent,
location and design of all public structures and facilities, on the acquisition
and disposal of public properties, on the establishment of building lines,
mapped street lines and proposals to change existing street lines. However,
whether or not there is a recommendation from the Planning Board, the Board of
Commissioners may, if it deems wise, take final action on any such matter at
any time.
(Prior Code, § 32.49) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980; Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
§ 32.50 MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board may conduct public hearings as may be required to
gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment and the
maintenance of the plans. Before recommending any plans to the Board of
Commissioners, the Planning Board shall hold at least one public hearing
thereon.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have the power to promote public interest in
and an understanding of its recommendations and, to that end, it may publish
and distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
(Prior Code, § 32.50) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980)
§ 32.51 ANNUAL REPORT, ANALYSIS OF EXPENDITURES AND BUDGET REQUEST.
   The Planning Board shall, in May of each year, submit in writing to the
Mayor and Board of Commissioners a report of its activities, and an analysis of
the expenditures to date for the current fiscal year; and shall submit to the
Mayor and Board of Commissioners for budget consideration its requested budget
of funds needed for operation during the ensuing fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 32.51) (Ord. passed 1-10-1980; Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
CEMETERY COMMISSION
§ 32.60 ESTABLISHMENT OF TOWN CEMETERY.
   (A)   Preamble. The public records of the county disclose that the Coats
Town Cemetery is owned by the town subject to conveyances by the town made to
various persons for the burial of human beings; the deed being from J. T. Coats
and wife, N. I. Coats, to the town, under date of 12-15-1911, and recorded in
Book 178, Page 301, County Registry. An area immediately west of the aforesaid
Coats Cemetery has been developed into cemetery lots by Dr. and Mrs. Fred H.
Fleming, and several cemetery lots have been conveyed unto various persons. The
upkeep and care of both areas, the Coats Cemetery and the Fleming Cemetery, has
been largely the responsibility of a very small group of citizens both within
and without the town limits and generally the cemetery areas have not been
maintained in a neat and orderly manner; the control and general maintenance
has caused considerable alarm and concern to the citizens, especially ones
whose loved ones are buried within the cemetery areas. The Town Board of
Commissioners does hereby deem it to be in the best interest of the town to
establish a town cemetery, including the taking of possession of and continuing
the use of those lands known as the Fleming Cemetery as a cemetery, all of both
areas, Coats Cemetery and Fleming Cemetery, to be hereafter known as “the Coats
Cemetery” and to establish an agency to be under the control of the Town Board
of Commissioners to operate the town cemetery, all as authorized under G.S. Ch.
160A, Art. 17 (G.S. §§ 160A-341 et seq.).
   (B)   Establishment of town cemetery; appropriation of land for cemetery. A
town cemetery is hereby established upon these lands heretofore conveyed by J.
T. Coats and wife, N. I. Coats, to the town by deed dated 12-15-1911, and
recorded in Book 178, Page 301, County Registry, and those lands known as the
Fleming Cemetery, said lands lying immediately west of the aforesaid first
tract, part of the lands shown upon a plat recorded in Map Book 6, Page 40,
County Registry, which lands known as the Fleming Cemetery are hereby
appropriated for use as a cemetery and taken into possession by the town and
incorporated into the town cemetery, all of which areas shall hereafter be
known as “the Coats Cemetery”.
(Prior Code, § 32.60) (Ord. passed 1-18-1972)
§ 32.61 ESTABLISHMENT OF CEMETERY COMMISSION.
   There is hereby established a governmental agency which shall be known as
“Town of Coats - Cemetery Commission” and which may be referred to as “Coats
Cemetery Commission” and hereinafter referred to as “Cemetery Commission”.
(Prior Code, § 32.61) (Ord. passed 1-18-1972)
§ 32.62 CEMETERY COMMISSION; MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The Cemetery Commission shall consist of nine members to be appointed by the
Board for the town to hold office for a term of three years or until their
successors are appointed and qualify; provided that, the Board for the town
shall immediately appoint three members of the Commission who shall hold
office; and that, thereafter, all Commission members shall hold office for a
term of three years; provided further that, the Board shall elect or otherwise
designate the Chair, Secretary and Treasurer of the Commission; provided
further that, there shall be no requirement that a member of the Cemetery
Commission be a town resident.
(Prior Code, § 32.62) (Ord. passed 1-18-1972)
§ 32.63 CEMETERY COMMISSION; DUTIES; OBLIGATIONS AND POWERS.
   (A)   General. The Cemetery Commission shall have the duty and obligation
for the control, care and maintenance of the town cemetery.
   (B)   Adoption of rules and regulations. The Cemetery Commission shall
formulate and recommend a set of rules and regulations to govern the use of,
sale of, care of and maintenance of the town cemetery lots and to further
formulate and recommend amendments to the rules and regulations, and deliver
the recommendations unto the Board for adoption. It shall be the duty and
obligation of the Board to consider the recommendations as presented to it and
to enact into ordinance the rules and regulations as it shall deem to be
necessary for the control, care and maintenance of the town cemetery. Upon
adoption by the Board, the rules and regulations shall constitute a repeal of
all prior rules and regulations heretofore enacted by the Board for the town.
   (C)   Budget requirement. The Cemetery Commission shall have the duty and
obligation of submitting a budget and anticipating all its revenues and
expenditures for the forthcoming fiscal year to the Board in April of each
year.
   (D)   Financial report necessary. The Cemetery Commission shall have the
duty and obligation of submitting a financial statement of all receipts and
disbursements made by the Commission not later than the regular meeting of the
Board held in August of each year.
   (E)   Deposit of funds. All moneys received by the Commission shall be
maintained in a special fund bank account designated as follows: “Town of Coats
- Cemetery Fund”. The bank account or accounts shall be subject to draft upon
the signature of the Clerk-Treasurer or other named officer of the Commission
and the Town Accountant.
   (F)   Duty to establish perpetual care. It shall be the further duty of the
Cemetery Commission to formulate and recommend to the Board of the town the
establishment of a perpetual care fund which will create sufficient moneys to
care for and maintain the town cemetery.
   (G)   Employment of agents and employees. The Cemetery Commission shall have
the power and authority to employ agents, employees, firms and corporations for
the purpose of assisting the Commission in the control, care and maintenance of
the town cemetery; provided that, the Cemetery Commission shall not have the
power or authority to bind or in any manner contract liability against the
town.
(Prior Code, § 32.63) (Ord. passed 1-18-1972)
§ 32.64 EX-OFFICIO MEMBERS.
   The Board shall appoint one of its members to serve as an ex-officio member
of the Cemetery Commission with the duties of coordinating the work of the
Cemetery Commission with the town government.
(Prior Code, § 32.64) (Ord. passed 1-18-1972)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Organization
   
33.02   Uniforms
   
33.03   Duties of police
   
33.04   Chief of Police
Auxiliary Police
   
33.20   Auxiliary Police Division established
   
33.21   Chief of Police to control; appointments and removals
   
33.22   Status of members and enforcement powers
   
33.23   Rules and regulations
   
33.24   Duties
   
33.25   Oath of office and power of arrest
   
33.26   Authority to activate Auxiliary
   
33.27   Wearing of uniform
   
33.28   Carrying and custody of firearms
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01 ORGANIZATION.
   The Police Department of the town shall consist of a Chief and as many
police officers as the Board shall from time to time determine.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
 
§ 33.02 UNIFORMS.
   All police officers shall wear uniforms as shall be provided by the town and
shall keep the uniforms in a neat and clean condition and shall surrender all
uniforms and equipment upon leaving the police service of the town if the
uniforms and equipment were furnished by the town.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
§ 33.03 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   The Police Department shall carry out all orders of the Board, enforce all
laws and ordinances of the town and the state and shall, at all times, preserve
the peace and protect the property and the safety of the citizens of the town.
(Prior Code, § 33.04) (Ord. CR51-307, passed 3-8-2007)
§ 33.04 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief shall have control over the Police Department under the
supervision of the Manager. The Chief shall keep the Manager informed of the
Department’s activities and make reports that the Manager may from time to time
require, and he or she shall perform such other duties as may be required by
the Manager.
(Prior Code, § 33.05) (Ord. passed 11-9-2000)
Statutory reference:
   Provisions regarding police, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 and 160A-285
AUXILIARY POLICE
§ 33.20 AUXILIARY POLICE DIVISION ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established within the town Police Department, as a division
thereof, an Auxiliary Police Division. The Auxiliary Police Division shall be a
volunteer organization, composed of as many members as may from time to time be
determined by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 33.20) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 33.21 CHIEF OF POLICE TO CONTROL; APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   The Auxiliary Police Division shall be under the direct control of the Chief
of Police, acting under the general supervision of the Town Manager. All
appointments and removals of members of the Auxiliary Police Division shall be
made in the same manner and under the same policies and procedures as may from
time to time be established for appointments and removal of regular police
officers.
(Prior Code, § 33.21) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 33.22 STATUS OF MEMBERS AND ENFORCEMENT POWERS.
   Members of the Police Auxiliary shall have officers and rank as shall be
approved by the Board. Regardless of rank attained, however, no Auxiliary
member shall exercise any authority over any regular officer and shall obey the
instructions of regular police officers in carrying out their duties.
(Prior Code, § 33.22) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 33.23 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All rules, regulations and operating instructions shall be approved first by
the Chief of Police, then by the Board, and shall become a part of the official
minutes of the town prior to their becoming effective. Any such rules,
regulations or operating instructions which have not been so approved are
considered null and void.
(Prior Code, § 33.23) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 33.24 DUTIES.
   The duties of the Auxiliary Police Division members shall be to assist the
regular officers of the Police Department in the enforcement of law and the
maintenance of peace and order when called to active duty. The Chief of Police
shall fix the specific duties of the Auxiliary and shall provide for the
maintenance of discipline. No member of the Auxiliary Police Division who has
not been certified and authorized shall enforce, nor attempt to enforce, any
law except when immediately accompanied by a regular officer or a designated
certified Auxiliary member.
(Prior Code, § 33.24) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 33.25 OATH OF OFFICE AND POWER OF ARREST.
   The members of the Auxiliary shall take the oral and written oath of office
prescribed for regular members of the Police Department and shall be vested
with all of the powers of arrest vested in regular police officers under state
law and the ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 33.25) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 33.26 AUTHORITY TO ACTIVATE AUXILIARY.
   The Auxiliary Police Division members may be called to active duty en masse
or individually on the authority of the Chief of Police and Town Manager. The
Chief of Police may designate certain certified Auxiliary members as “on call”.
When so designated these members shall be equipped and ready to render
assistance to the regular officer(s) on duty whenever required. A member
designated on call shall be considered on active duty at all times, whether in
uniform or not.
(Prior Code, § 33.26) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 33.27 WEARING OF UNIFORM.
   Members of the Auxiliary Police Division shall be clothed in proper uniform
whenever discharging official police duties, except on those emergency
occasions when changing to the uniform would not be feasible.
(Prior Code, § 33.27) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
§ 33.28 CARRYING AND CUSTODY OF FIREARMS.
   No member of the Auxiliary Police Division shall carry or use any firearm
when not on active duty and in uniform unless that member has been designated
on call. Weapons issued to Auxiliary members remain the property of the town
and are subject to recall at any time.
(Prior Code, § 33.28) (Ord. passed 11-11-1975)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish auxiliary police force, G.S. § 160A-282
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING
Section
   
34.01   Disbursement of funds
   
34.02   Purchasing
§ 34.01 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   No money shall be disbursed from the town treasury, except upon procedure as
authorized by the Board of Commissioners. All disbursements shall be provided
for in the annual budget; provided however, the Board of Commissioners in
session may authorize an expenditure of funds, which action shall constitute an
amendment to the annual budget. For all actions, the Board of Commissioners,
not later than the end of the then fiscal year, shall cause a formal amendment
to the annual budget to be adopted.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Ord. passed 10-13-1994)
§ 34.02 PURCHASING.
   (A)   In accordance with G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq., the Local Government Budget
and Fiscal Control Act, no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it
has been approved by the officer or employee responsible for the function or
agency to which the expense is charged. No check or draft of the town shall be
valid unless it bears on its face the certificate of the appropriate official
as follows:
      “This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government
Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
   (B)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the appropriate official’s certificate as follows:
      “This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
Statutory reference:
   Budgetary accounting for appropriations, see G.S. § 159-28
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   State of emergency; curfew authorized
   
35.02   Form and content of proclamations
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; CURFEW AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times
of great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason, municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
town, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor of the
town is hereby authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation
declaring to all persons the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order
to more effectively protect the lives and property of people within the town,
to place in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the corporate limits of the town
and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part
of the restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters and other public
employees; doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty military personnel whether state or federal; on-duty
employees of public utilities and public transportation companies; and
newspaper, magazine, radio broadcasting and television broadcasting
corporations operated for profit; and other classes of persons as may be
essential to the preservation of public order and immediately necessary to the
safety, health and welfare needs of the people within the town.
   (D)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency or all or
any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the governing body.
   (E)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
      (2)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
      (4)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
      (5)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or
roadway, or upon any other public property, except by those in search of
medical assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the
well-being of themselves or their families or some member thereof; and
      (6)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit or regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly.
   (F)   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any
particular during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency
by the issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
   (G)   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. passed 9-9-2004; Ord. passed 4-10-2008) Penalty,
see §
35.99
§ 35.02 FORM AND CONTENT OF PROCLAMATIONS.
   The proclamation for the declaration of a state of emergency and the
imposition of specific prohibitions and restrictions shall take substantially
the following form:
      “WHEREAS, The governing body of the                     of
                   ,                     , has duly adopted an ordinance
authorizing the Mayor to determine and proclaim the existence of a state of
emergency and to impose various restrictions after s/he determines that such
restrictions are necessary as a response to an emergency.
      “NOW THEREFORE, I,                            , Mayor of the
                    of                   proclaim that:
   I.
      “An emergency exists, and restrictions set forth in this proclamation are
necessary in order to maintain an acceptable level of public order, services,
and protection of lives, safety, and property during this emergency.
Editor’s note:
   The proclamation should specify any one or more of the following
restrictions, which are presented here as options.
   II.
      “I proclaim the following restrictions:
      A.   No person shall be a part of any assembly of three or more persons
in the area bounded by the corporate limits of                  ,
                         .
      B.   Possession, consumption, and transfer of intoxicating liquor.
         1.   No person shall possess or consume any intoxicating liquor,
including beer and wine, other than on his premises.
         2.   No person shall sell or otherwise transfer any intoxicating
liquor, including beer and wine.
      C.   Curfew.
         1.   No person not exempted by this proclamation shall appear in
public in the geographic area described in this proclamation between the hours
of          p.m. and midnight or between the hours of midnight and         
a.m. of any day until I remove this curfew by proclamation.
         2.   This curfew shall apply to the area bounded by
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
         3.   I find it necessary to the preservation of the public health,
safety, and welfare to exempt from these curfew restrictions the following
classes of people in the circumstances indicated:
            (a)   Those whose appearance is essential in order to obtain or
furnish a service or commodity which is immediately necessary to sustain the
health or well-being of themselves or of someone within curfew area.
            (b)   Those whose appearance necessarily occurs in the process of
leaving a place at which they were temporarily engaged and from which they
could not reasonably have planned their departure so as to avoid appearing
during the period during which the curfew was applicable.
            
(c)                                                                                                    .
      D.   Possession and transfer of dangerous weapons or substances.
         1.   No person shall possess any dangerous weapons or substances
unless they remain in a place of storage on the person’s premises, or, if they
cannot be readily stored on the premises, unless they remain in a customary
place of storage not readily available to the possessor. No person may
transport or sell or otherwise transfer any dangerous weapons or substances.
         2.   I find it necessary to the preservation of the public health,
safety, and welfare to exempt from these restrictions the following classes of
people in the circumstances indicated:
   Police officers may possess any weapon necessary to carry out their duties
when on active duty.
   Anyone may possess gasoline when the gasoline is in the tank of a car in the
person’s possession.
                                    may transfer
                                                when
                                                                                                       .
      E.   Access to restricted areas.
         1.   I direct the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates to
restrict or deny access to any area, location, or street where such a
restriction is necessary in order to help overcome this emergency or to prevent
the emergency from worsening. These restrictions on access shall be indicated
by means of barricades, posted notices, or orders to anyone in the area.
         2.   No person shall obtain access or attempt to obtain access to any
area, location, or street to which the Chief of Police and his or her
subordinates have restricted access according to the directions I have just
given to them.
   III.
      “Anyone violating any restriction imposed by this proclamation or under
its authority violates town ordinance and is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   IV.
      “This proclamation shall take effect immediately.
                                                        
Hour and Date
                                                        
Mayor
SEAL OF THE TOWN”
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. passed 9-9-2004; Ord. passed 4-20-2008) Penalty,
see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   The violation of any provision of this chapter, or of any provision of any
restriction imposed by any proclamation authorized by this chapter, shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding
$50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 36.99)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
      
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Refuse required to be deposited in approved containers
   
50.03   Burning or burying garbage and refuse regulated
   
50.04   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
50.05   Containers required
   
50.06   Precollection practices
   
50.07   Location of containers
   
50.08   Unlawful to displace containers
   
50.09   Special or bulk collections regulated
   
50.10   Removal of dead animals
Cross-reference:
   Littering prohibited, see §
130.40
   Maintenance of privately-owned spaces used by the public, see §
130.41
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIALS SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign and
other structure, including, but not limited to, excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses, and recognizable industrial by-products, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   REFUSE. All nonputrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials, including solid waste materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include solids or dissolved materials in domestic
sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt,
dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved
materials in irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery trimmings and cuttings, and
all other trimmings from the natural growth of trees, shrubbery, weeds, plants
or grass.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 9-14-2000)
§ 50.02 REFUSE REQUIRED TO BE DEPOSITED IN APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 BURNING OR BURYING GARBAGE AND REFUSE REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to or bury any garbage for the
purpose of disposal. In addition, it shall be unlawful to bury any refuse for
the purpose of disposal unless a permit therefor has been granted by the Town
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) (Ord. CR5187 passed 4-13-2006; Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
required herein.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) (Ord. CR5187 passed 4-13-2006)
§ 50.05 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   The occupant of every building or premises where garbage and refuse does or
may exist shall provide containers made of substantial galvanized iron,
plastic, rubber or other nonrusting material in which shall be deposited all
garbage and refuse existing at the building or premises. Each container shall
be provided with handles or bails and with a tightfitting cover made of the
same material as the container. All containers shall be watertight, and they
shall be of a size that can be conveniently handled by the collectors, and no
container shall be more than 32 gallons in capacity and measure not over 22
inches in diameter nor 30 inches in height. All containers shall be kept in a
reasonably clean manner by the use of lye or other effective cleaner.
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. CR5187 passed 4-13-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 PRECOLLECTION PRACTICES.
   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom and shall be
wrapped in paper or other like material before it is placed in the container
for collection. Ashes and cinders shall be placed in a separate container
provided for that purpose, and no ashes shall be deposited in any container
until they are cold. Containers which fail to have a top as required in §
50.05 or which become rusted or broken and therefore are unable to contain
garbage and refuse in a satisfactory manner will not be used.
(Prior Code, § 50.06) (Ord. CR5187 passed 4-13-06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   Containers shall not be placed adjacent to the street or sidewalk, except on
the days when garbage is to be collected. A schedule of collection shall be
kept on file at the Clerk-Treasurer’s office. When collection schedules are
altered from time to time, notice of the change shall be given by publishing
the new schedule in a newspaper having general circulation in the town. Garbage
containers shall be removed from their positions adjacent to the street or
sidewalk after the contents have been emptied on that same day, provided that
at places of business or manufacturing empty containers shall not be left on
the street for more than 30 minutes between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m.
(Prior Code, § 50.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.08 UNLAWFUL TO DISPLACE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, displace or otherwise
interfere with garbage containers or their contents except the owner or upon
permission or at the request of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 50.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   No bulk trash, tree limbs, shrubbery cuttings, leaves and other refuse
will be collected on a regular basis unless the refuse can be placed in
regulation type garbage cans; provided, however, that, limbs, tree trunks and
tree and bush cuttings which are of a size that can be readily loaded in
regulation garbage trucks in amounts not in excess of one-half a truck load for
any one residence or place of business will be collected on a special
collection basis.
   (B)   Any property owner desiring special bulk collections of loose matter
not in closed containers or tied in bundles may request a special collection,
for which a charge will be made. If sufficient manpower and equipment is
available, town personnel are authorized to make the special collections,
provided that the person making the request agrees to pay for the labor and
equipment used at the rate specified by the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   No collection shall be made from vacant lots nor shall any large
rocks, tree trunks, tree stumps, tree limbs of more than eight feet in length,
or other heavy objects be collected by the town. No waste building materials or
lot clearings shall be collected from houses or other structures under
construction or recently completed.
   (D)   Material to be collected by special collections shall be placed in
neat piles and so located that the refuse can be easily loaded on trucks for
disposal.
(Prior Code, § 50.09) (Ord. CR5187 passed 4-13-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be removed from any premises by the town upon notice to
the Town Clerk Treasurer of the existence of the dead animal.
(Prior Code, § 50.10) (Ord. CR5187, passed 4-13-2006)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Control of system vested in Board
   
51.02   Duties of Public Works Director
   
51.03   Director to be in charge
   
51.04   No visitors to pumping station; exceptions
   
51.05   Applications for connections
   
51.06   Town to tap main; make connections
   
51.07   Charges
   
51.08   Director to inspect plumbing
   
51.09   Water bills to be paid monthly
   
51.10   Disconnection for late payment
   
51.11   Unlawful to turn water service back on after disconnection
   
51.12   Reconnection charges
   
51.13   Owners of more than one house
   
51.14   Taking water from public hydrant prohibited; exceptions
   
51.15   All service pipes to connect with main
   
51.16   Town may shut off water
   
51.17   Corporation cock may be removed
   
51.18   Size of corporation cock
   
51.19   Larger connections
   
51.20   Permit required for water for builders
   
51.21   No damages in case of accident or failure of water supply
   
51.22   Rates
   
51.23   Deposits
   
51.24   Water required
   
51.25   Separate connections required
   
51.26   Tampering with or obstructing water lines prohibited
§ 51.01 CONTROL OF SYSTEM VESTED IN BOARD.
   The waterworks system owned by the town shall be under the control of the
Mayor and Board, and the duty of securing and enforcing a full compliance with
all rules and regulations governing the connections with the mains shall be
vested in the Board, or its authorized agents.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. passed 4-10-2008)
§ 51.02 DUTIES OF PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   The Public Works Director shall see that the rules and regulations of the
town are enforced, that all contracts and specifications are fulfilled, that
the assessments of the water rates are correctly made and that all accounts and
claims are audited for payment. The Director shall have general supervision
over all the operations of the waterworks and shall make report to the Town
Manager, whenever called for, as to its working conditions, and make
suggestions and plans for its improvement and extension as may be advantageous
to the system. The Director shall see that all subordinate employees perform
their duties according to the regulations of the town.
(Prior Code, § 51.02)
§ 51.03 DIRECTOR TO BE IN CHARGE.
   The Director shall have full and entire charge of the pumping and machinery
at the pumping station, and filter plant, and of the reservoir, and report to
the Board the condition of the machinery and the like when required.
(Prior Code, § 51.03)
§ 51.04 NO VISITORS TO PUMPING STATION; EXCEPTIONS.
   No visitors shall be permitted about the filter plant and pumping machinery
without being accompanied by the engineer on duty, and under no circumstances
shall anyone be allowed to handle or in any way meddle with any appliance
connected with or belonging to any of the machinery.
(Prior Code, § 51.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 APPLICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS.
   Parties desiring connections made with the water main shall, in every case,
make application in writing to the town, stating for what purpose the water is
to be used, and all applications shall be held to bind the applicant to take
the water for not less than one year (unless otherwise agreed to by the town)
and to pay the established rate.
(Prior Code, § 51.05)
§ 51.06 TOWN TO TAP MAIN; MAKE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The town reserves the privilege of tapping water main for any and all
connections and will extend all service pipes to the curbing, where a stop box
will be placed over a stopcock, all of which shall be under the exclusive
control of the town.
   (B)   No person shall be allowed to turn the water on or off at this
stopcock, except the Director of Public Works or his or her designated
employee.
(Prior Code, § 51.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 CHARGES.
   For this extension of service pipe and tapping of the main, the town will
charge those fees fixed by the Board and kept on file in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 51.07)
§ 51.08 DIRECTOR TO INSPECT PLUMBING.
   Water will not be turned on to any premises until the Director has inspected
the plumbing and fixtures and found them to be in proper condition.
(Prior Code, § 51.08)
§ 51.09 WATER BILLS TO BE PAID MONTHLY.
   All water rents and charges shall be paid monthly to the Town Water
Department by the tenth day of each month following the month in which the
water was used or consumed. Thereafter, rents and charges shall be past due.
(Prior Code, § 51.09) (Ord. passed 8-7-1975)
§ 51.10 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The town’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   All bills are due and payable on or before the tenth of the month
and a late fee charge set by the Board shall be added to the bill after the
eighteenth of the month;
      (2)   If any bill is not paid by or before the twenty-fifth of the month,
a cutoff notice will be placed at the residence stating that if the bill is not
paid by 10:00 a.m. the next business day, service will be disconnected for
nonpayment;
      (3)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint; and
      (4)   Any customer tampering with the meter will result in an additional
charge set by the Board.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn on charge set
by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 51.10)
§ 51.11 UNLAWFUL TO TURN WATER SERVICE BACK ON AFTER DISCONNECTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn the town water back on when the
same has been turned off by a town official for the nonpayment of water fees.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. passed 8-7-1975) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12 RECONNECTION CHARGES.
   If water is turned back on by a water user after being turned off by a town
official, the meter may be removed. The charge for reinstating services shall
be set by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. passed 8-7-1975)
§ 51.13 OWNERS OF MORE THAN ONE HOUSE.
   Any property owner having more than one house using water from the same
water tap shall be responsible for water bills for all the houses.
(Prior Code, § 51.13)
§ 51.14 TAKING WATER FROM PUBLIC HYDRANT PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person, except the Director, or Chief of Fire Department, or person in
charge of street cleaning, shall take any water from any public hydrant, plug,
streetwasher, drawcock, horse pipe or fountain except for fire purposes. Nor
shall anyone, in any way, use or take water for private use unless the person
shall pay for the privilege and receive the usual permit to do so.
(Prior Code, § 51.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.15 ALL SERVICE PIPES TO CONNECT WITH MAIN.
   (A)   In no case will service pipes be allowed to run across lots, that is,
from one lot to another, but must be taken direct from the main at some point
adjacent thereto.
   (B)   The Water Committee shall have authority to have service pipes
extended to houses not located on main line, but in all cases the additional
expense of the extension shall be paid by the owner of the property.
(Prior Code, § 51.15)
§ 51.16 TOWN MAY SHUT OFF WATER.
   The town reserves the right at any time to shut off the water in the mains
in case of accident or for the purpose of making connections or repairs.
(Prior Code, § 51.16)
§ 51.17 CORPORATION COCK MAY BE REMOVED.
   In cases where the water is turned off for nonpayment of water rent or other
causes, or when, in the opinion of the Director, the turning off of the water
at the stopcock is not sufficient protection against the further use of water,
the Director may cause the corporation cock to be locked or the meter removed.
(Prior Code, § 51.17)
§ 51.18 SIZE OF CORPORATION COCK.
   No corporation cock shall be inserted in any of the mains above the size of
one-inch, inside diameter, without the consent of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 51.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.19 LARGER CONNECTIONS.
   Applicants desiring attachments of larger diameter than prescribed by these
rules and regulations for the purpose of controlling a larger quantity of water
in a short space of time shall be required to pay, on demand, all extra costs
of the attachments above that of ordinary service, and shall pay meter rates.
(Prior Code, § 51.19)
§ 51.20 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR WATER FOR BUILDERS.
   A contractor or builder desiring the use of water shall be required to make
application in writing to the Town Clerk-Treasurer and secure a permit
specifying the manner in which water shall be supplied.
(Prior Code, § 51.20)
§ 51.21 NO DAMAGES IN CASE OF ACCIDENT OR FAILURE OF WATER SUPPLY.
   It is expressly stipulated by and between the town and the water takers and
users that no claim shall be made against the town on account of the breaking
of any main or service pipe, or any attachment to the water system, or for any
accidental failure in the supply of water.
(Prior Code, § 51.21)
§ 51.22 RATES.
   (A)   Water will be supplied to users and consumers payable monthly, by the
fifteenth of each month following the month in which water was used or
consumed. The rate shall be fixed by the Board and kept on file in the office
of the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   Bills will be made out by the Director or other person designated by
the Mayor and Board based on the readings made by the Director or other duly
designated person.
(Prior Code, § 51.22)
§ 51.23 DEPOSITS.
   Before any water service shall be connected for any applicant, the applicant
shall be required to make a good faith deposit in the amount set by the Board.
(Prior Code, § 51.23) (Ord. passed 8-7-1975)
§ 51.24 WATER REQUIRED.
   All owners of improved property located within the corporate limits and upon
or within a reasonable distance of any water line owned and operated by the
town may be required to connect their premises with the town water system.
(Prior Code, § 51.24)
§ 51.25 SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Each individual business or residential building or structure shall install
a separate water connection.
(Prior Code, § 51.25)
§ 51.26 TAMPERING WITH OR OBSTRUCTING WATER LINES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall touch, tamper or, in any manner, manipulate or turn the
cutoffs on the water mains forming a part of the water system of the town, nor
shall any person tamper with or harm in any manner whatsoever any water line,
main or any appurtenance thereto. No person shall throw or deposit any material
or substance in any water line that will in any manner obstruct the line.
(Prior Code, § 51.26) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   BICYCLES; TOY VEHICLES
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS; PARADES
      
75.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
77.   GOLF CART REQUIREMENTS/RESTRICTIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Application of title to person riding, propelling pushcarts, tractors,
trailers, carts, animals and the like
   
70.03   Drivers of government-owned vehicles
   
70.04   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.05   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.06   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
70.07   Authorized emergency vehicles
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.20   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
70.21   Specifications for traffic-control devices
   
70.22   Obedience to official traffic-control devices
   
70.23   When traffic devices required for enforcement purposes
   
70.24   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.25   Pedestrian control signals
   
70.26   Flashing signals
   
70.27   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
70.28   Interference with official traffic-control devices, signs or signals
   
70.29   Authority to establish play streets
   
70.30   Traffic lanes
   
70.31   Authority to establish certain streets as no through traffic to certain
trucks
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Community Beautification, see
Ch. 92
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of a fire department, police
vehicles, and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal department or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels, either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY. Every highway, street or roadway in respect to
which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other persons have
no legal right of access to or from the same, except at the points only and in
the manner as may be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction
over the highway, street or roadway.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of two
or more highways which join one another at any angle whether or not one highway
crosses the other.
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event the
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of the highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include mopeds as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(27)d1.
   MOTORCYCLE. A type of passenger vehicle as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(27).
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or device not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the governing
body by any designated official having jurisdiction through authority given by
the governing body, for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting or
guiding traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   PARK. The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every peace officer of the town, including every employee of
the town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests for
any violations of the provisions of this title.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used
herein, shall refer to any roadways separately, but not to all roadways
collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. Traffic island or other space officially set aside within a
highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is so plainly marked or
indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart
as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
lines of a roadway and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during the period of stopping.
   STOP. When required, the complete cessation of movement of any vehicle.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, any stopping of any vehicle, except when
STOPPING means that it shall be necessary to stop the vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of any peace officer of
the town or by reason of any traffic-control sign or signal or by reason of any
emergency.
   STREET and HIGHWAY. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the town.
   TRAFFIC DIVISION. The Traffic Division of the Police Department of this
town, or in the event a Traffic Division is not established, then the term
whenever used herein shall be deemed to refer to the Police Department of the
town.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Every device used in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided that, for the
purposes of this title, bicycles shall be deemed vehicles and every rider of a
bicycle upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this title
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those which by their nature can
have no application.
      (2)   VEHICLE shall not include a device which is designed for and
intended to be used as a means of transportation for a person with a mobility
impairment, is suitable for use both inside and outside a building, and whose
maximum speed does not exceed 12 miles per hour when the device is being
operated by a person with a mobility impairment.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (G.S. § 20-4.01)
§ 70.02 APPLICATION OF TITLE TO PERSON RIDING, PROPELLING PUSHCARTS, TRACTORS,
TRAILERS, CARTS, ANIMALS AND THE LIKE.
   Every person operating, riding, propelling or driving any pushcart, tractor,
trailer, bicycle, buggy, cart or other type of machine or conveyance or any
person riding or driving or leading an animal upon any of the public streets of
the town shall be subject to the provisions of this title, except those
provisions of this title which by their very nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 DRIVERS OF GOVERNMENT-OWNED VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
streets shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the
service of the United States government, this state or any other state, or any
county or city. It shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any
provisions of this title, except as otherwise permitted in this title or by
state statute.
((Prior Code, § 70.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or
officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic
laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or officers as are assigned by the
Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or
signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided that, in the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of a fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct
or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 70.04)
§ 70.05 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 70.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy
vehicle or similar device, shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a
street on a crosswalk and when so crossing the person shall be granted all of
the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
This section shall not apply upon any street set aside as a play street as
authorized by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 70.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Play streets, see §
70.29
§ 70.07 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this title;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the prima facie speed limits so long as the driver does not
endanger life or property; and
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when the driver of the vehicle while in motion sounds audible signal
by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably necessary, and when the
vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp displaying a light visible
under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet to the front of
the vehicle, except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police
vehicle need not be equipped with or display a light visible from in front of
the vehicle.
   (D)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall the provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Prior Code, § 70.07)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.20 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The town shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals and devices
when and as required under the traffic ordinances to make effective provisions
of those ordinances and may place and maintain such additional traffic-control
devices to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of the town or under
state law, or to guide or warn traffic.
(Prior Code, § 70.20)
§ 70.21 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to state
regulations.
   (B)   All signs and signals required hereunder for a particular purpose
shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and location.
   (C)   All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of state law or this subchapter shall be official traffic-control
devices.
(Prior Code, § 70.21)
§ 70.22 OBEDIENCE TO OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
ordinances, unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject to
exceptions granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this title.
(Prior Code, § 70.22)
§ 70.23 WHEN TRAFFIC DEVICES REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT PURPOSES.
   (A)   No provision of this title for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if at the time and place of the alleged
violation an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (B)   Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required,
the section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
(Prior Code, § 70.23)
§ 70.24 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words “Go”, “Caution” or “Stop” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used, and these terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of
vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or “Go”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter, and vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop”.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or “Go” is
shown alone; provided, however, that, if a sign is not erected prohibiting
turns on red lights, the vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to
a complete stop. Streets on which right turns on red are not allowed shall be
set forth in Chapter 75.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” is shown alone unless authorized so to do by a pedestrian “Walk”
signal.
   (E)   Applicability.
      (1)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application.
      (2)   Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.25 PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words “Walk” or
“Don’t Walk” are in place, the signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   “Walk”. Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the highway
in the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the
drivers of all vehicles.
   (B)   “Don’t Walk”. No pedestrian shall start to cross the highway in the
direction of the signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed the
crossing on the “Walk” signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety island
while the “Don’t Walk” signal is showing.
(Prior Code, § 70.25) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal).
      (1)   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, and the right to
proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the crosswalk unless
and until the entry can be made with safety to other persons and property at
the place.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection or past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 70.26) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is in imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, sign or
signal or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from
view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device, sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance, and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Prior Code, § 70.27) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, SIGNS OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.28) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH PLAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Board shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
play street and to place appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating
and helping to protect the same.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or part
thereof as a play street, no person shall drive a vehicle upon any street or
portion thereof except drivers of vehicles having business or whose residences
are within the closed area, and then the driver shall exercise the greatest
care in driving upon any street or portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.29) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.30 TRAFFIC LANES.
   Where traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries of
any lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making
a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 70.30) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH CERTAIN STREETS AS NO THROUGH TRAFFIC TO CERTAIN
TRUCKS.
   (A)   The Board shall have authority to declare any street or part thereof a
street for which through traffic to trucks shall not be allowed and to place
appropriate signs or devices in the roadway indicating that drivers of trucks
should not enter the streets for the purpose of general traffic through the
area.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating any street or
part thereof as a no through traffic to trucks, no person shall drive a truck
with weight of more than 19 tons upon any street or portion thereof except
drivers of trucks having business or whose residences are within the closed
area, and then any such driver shall exercise the greatest care when driving
upon any street or portion thereof.
      (2)   Streets signs may spell the word “through” as follows: “thru”.
   (C)   The designation by the Board of any street or portion thereof as being
a no through (thru) traffic to trucks street, then the Board shall enumerate
those streets or portions thereof and describe the same in
Chapter 75, Schedule VII.
(Prior Code, § 70.31) (Ord. passed 10-10-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate a provision of this title regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles and for which no other specific penalty has
been enacted, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall be
required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b)) (Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Speed Regulations
   
71.01   Speed limit
   
71.02   Exceptions
Turning Movements
   
71.20   Required position and method of turning at intersections
   
71.21   Turning markers
   
71.22   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
71.23   Obedience to no-turn signs
   
71.24   Limitations on turning around
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
71.40   Authority to sign one-way streets and alleys
   
71.41   One-way streets and alleys
Special Stops Required
   
71.60   Through streets designated
   
71.61   Authority to erect stop signs
   
71.62   Intersections where stop required
   
71.63   Signs to bear the word “stop”
   
71.64   Vehicles to stop at stop signs
   
71.65   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
71.66   Stop when traffic obstructed
Miscellaneous Driving Rules
   
71.80   Driving through funeral or other procession
   
71.81   Drivers in a procession
   
71.82   Funeral processions to be identified
   
71.83   Vehicles shall not be driven on a sidewalk
   
71.84   Limitations on backing
   
71.85   Riding on motorcycles
   
71.86   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.87   Controlled access
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMIT.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful to
operate a vehicle in excess of 35 miles per hour inside the municipal corporate
limits.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) (Ord. passed 10-14-2004) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon the streets or portions of streets of the state highway
system listed in each designated traffic schedule:
      (1)   Twenty miles per hour (
Chapter 75, Schedule VI);
      (2)   Twenty-five miles per hour (
Chapter 75, Schedule VI); and
      (3)   Forty-five miles per hour (
Chapter 75, Schedule VI).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon any streets or portions of streets, not a part of the state
highway system, set forth in
Chapter 75.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) (Ord. passed 4-10-1997) Penalty, see §
70.99
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.20 REQUIRED POSITION AND METHOD OF TURNING AT INTERSECTIONS.
   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as
follows.
   (A)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn shall
be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway.
   (B)   Left turns on two-way roadways. At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the right of the
center line where it enters the intersection, and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the
right of the center line of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the
left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
   (C)   Left turns on other than two-way roadways. At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
(Prior Code, § 71.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.21 TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
(Prior Code, § 71.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.22 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Board shall determine those intersections at which drivers of
vehicles take a right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs at the
intersections.
   (B)   The making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of any
day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same shall be plainly
indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when the turns are permitted.
   (C)   Restrictions on turning movements shall be as specified in
Chapter 75, Schedule IV.
(Prior Code, § 71.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.23 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left turn
is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any such
sign.
(Prior Code, § 71.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.24 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn such vehicle so as to proceed in
the opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not
upon any other street so turn a vehicle unless the movement can be made in
safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 71.40 AUTHORITY TO SIGN ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley, there shall
be signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective
unless the signs are in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic
movement shall be placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 71.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.41 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described in
Chapter 75, Schedule III, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated
direction when signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and
maintained at every intersection where movement in the opposite direction is
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 71.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS REQUIRED
§ 71.60 THROUGH STREETS DESIGNATED.
   Those streets and parts of streets described in
Chapter 75, Schedule I, are declared to be through streets for the purpose of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.60) (Ord. passed 5-17-2001)
§ 71.61 AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting the through street
or intersecting the portion thereof described and designated as such by any
ordinance, unless traffic at the intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic-control signals; provided, however, that, at the intersection of two
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 71.61)
§ 71.62 INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP REQUIRED.
   The Board may determine and designate intersections where particular hazard
exists upon other than through streets and may determine whether vehicles shall
stop at one or more entrances to any stop intersection and shall erect a stop
sign at every place where a stop is required. The places are specified in
Chapter 75, Schedule II.
(Prior Code, § 71.62) (Ord. passed 2-14-2002; Ord. passed 6-12-2003)
§ 71.63 SIGNS TO BEAR THE WORD “STOP.”
   Every sign erected pursuant to this subchapter shall bear the word “Stop” in
letters not less than eight inches in height, and the signs shall at nighttime
be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient reflecting
elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located as near as
practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.63)
§ 71.64 VEHICLES TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   When stop signs are erected as herein authorized at or near the entrance to
any intersection, every driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, in the event there is no
crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the
point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection, except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal.
(Prior Code, § 71.64) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.65 EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately prior to
driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
or driveway, yielding the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to
avoid collision and, upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.65) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.66 STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle the driver is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
(Prior Code, § 71.66) Penalty, see §
70.99
MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING RULES
§ 71.80 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSION.
   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral
or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when the vehicles
are conspicuously designated as required in this subchapter. This provision
shall not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals or police officers.
(Prior Code, § 71.80) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.81 DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as close as is practical and safe.
(Prior Code, § 71.81) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.82 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia or by such other method as may be determined and
designated by the Traffic Division.
(Prior Code, § 71.82) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.83 VEHICLES SHALL NOT BE DRIVEN ON A SIDEWALK.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within any sidewalk area, except a
permanent or temporary driveway.
(Prior Code, § 71.83) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.84 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless the movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.84) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.85 RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and the operator shall not carry any other
person, nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless the motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
(Prior Code, § 71.85) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.86 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller skates, sled or toy
vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a
roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.86)
Cross-reference:
   Bicycle and toy vehicle regulations, see §§
73.01 et seq.
§ 71.87 CONTROLLED ACCESS.
   No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any controlled-access roadway,
except at the entrances and exits as are established by public authority.
(Prior Code, § 71.87) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   Parking within lines delineating parking space
   
72.02   Vehicles backed up to curb
   
72.03   Standing or parking close to curb
   
72.04   Signs or markings indicating angle parking
   
72.05   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings
   
72.06   Lights on parked vehicles
Stopping, Standing or Parking Prohibited in Specified Places
   
72.20   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
72.21   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.22   Parking in alleys
   
72.23   All-night parking prohibited
   
72.24   Standing or parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.25   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.26   Standing or parking on one-way roadways
   
72.27   No stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places
Stopping for Loading or Unloading
   
72.40   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.41   Passenger loading zones
   
72.42   Commercial loading zones
   
72.43   Public carrier stops and stands
   
72.44   Stopping, standing and parking of busses and taxicabs
   
72.45   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
Restrictions or Prohibitions on Certain Streets
   
72.60   Application of subchapter
   
72.61   Regulations not exclusive
   
72.62   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets
   
72.63   Parking time limited on certain streets
   
72.64   Parking signs required
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 PARKING WITHIN LINES DELINEATING PARKING SPACE.
   On any street which is marked off with lines indicating the parking spaces
for vehicles, vehicles shall be parked between the lines and within spaces
indicated for parking. This section shall not be construed to apply to parking
meter spaces in designated parking meter zones.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 VEHICLES BACKED UP TO CURB.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow a vehicle to remain
backed up to the curb or curb line, except when actually loading or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel to
the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 SIGNS OR MARKINGS INDICATING ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   The Board shall determine upon what streets angle parking shall be
permitted and shall mark or sign the streets, which, if any, shall be set forth
in
Chapter 75.
   (B)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where
passing traffic would thereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street.
(Prior Code, § 72.04)
§ 72.05 OBEDIENCE TO ANGLE PARKING SIGNS OR MARKINGS.
   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by the signs or markings.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a vehicle is lawfully parked at nighttime upon any street or
residence district, no lights need be displayed upon the parked vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is parked upon a street or highway outside of a
residence district during the hours between one-half hour after sunset and one-
half hour before sunrise, the vehicle shall be equipped with one or more lamps
which shall exhibit a white light on the roadway side visible from a distance
of 500 feet to the front of the vehicle and a red light visible from a distance
of 500 feet to the rear.
   (C)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES
§ 72.20 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station, within 75 feet of
the entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel; and
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.21 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.22 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width roadway for
the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop, stand or park
a vehicle within an alley in a position as to block the driveway entrance to
any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 72.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.23 ALL-NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
of any day, on the streets as shall be set forth in
Chapter 75.
(Prior Code, § 72.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.24 STANDING OR PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street of the town for the principal purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (C)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when the storing is not
incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or another
vehicle; and
   (D)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from one
vehicle to another.
(Prior Code, § 72.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.25 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side of a
street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person shall
park a vehicle in any designated place.
(Prior Code, § 72.25) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.26 STANDING OR PARKING ON ONE-WAY ROADWAYS.
   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways and traffic is
restricted to one direction upon any roadway, no person shall stand or park a
vehicle upon the left-hand side of the one-way roadway unless signs are erected
to permit the standing or parking.
(Prior Code, § 72.26) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.27 NO STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(Prior Code, § 72.27) Penalty, see §
70.99
STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING
§ 72.40 LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and described by
this subchapter and when signs are placed, erected or installed giving notice
thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park any vehicle
for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with the requirements of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 72.40) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.41 PASSENGER LOADING ZONES.
   The streets or parts thereof as may be set forth in
Chapter 75 are hereby designated as passenger loading and unloading zones, and
no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, and then only for a period not to exceed ten minutes.
(Prior Code, § 72.41) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.42 COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES.
   The streets or parts thereof as may be set forth in
Chapter 75 are hereby designated as commercial loading and unloading zones, and
no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle therein during the hours of 8:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the expeditious unloading and
delivery, or pickup and loading of materials and goods, and then only for a
period not to exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 72.42) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.43 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier
motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, if any, shall be as set forth
in
Chapter 75.
(Prior Code, § 72.43) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.44 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF BUSSES AND TAXICABS.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated as provided by this
section.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop the vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so designated as
provided in this section, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right
front wheel of the vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb, and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb, so as not to unduly impede the movement
of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   (1)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park the vehicle
upon any street at any place other than a taxicab stand so designated as
provided in this section.
      (2)   This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers.
(Prior Code, § 72.44) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.45 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers, when the stopping does not
interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter the zone.
(Prior Code, § 72.45)
RESTRICTIONS OR PROHIBITIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS
§ 72.60 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 72.60) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.61 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 72.61) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.62 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets set forth in
Chapter 76, Schedule I.
(Prior Code, § 72.62) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.63 PARKING TIME LIMITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or upon
any of the streets set forth in
Chapter 76, Schedule II.
(Prior Code, § 72.63) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.64 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other subchapter any parking time limit is imposed
or parking is prohibited on designated streets, there shall be appropriate
signs giving notice thereof, and no such regulations shall be effective unless
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 72.64) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES; TOY VEHICLES
Section
   
73.01   Effect of regulations
   
73.02   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.04   Riding on bicycles
   
73.05   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.06   Speed
   
73.07   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
73.08   Carrying articles
   
73.09   Parking
   
73.10   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.11   Lamps and other equipment on bicycles
§ 73.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of the state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this chapter and except as to those provisions of laws
and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make the turn, in which event the person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 73.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 73.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway
yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 73.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.08 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handle bars.
(Prior Code, § 73.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.09 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Prior Code, § 73.09) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.10 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and, when the signs
are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 73.10) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.11 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet, except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall any person use
upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Prior Code, § 73.11) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 74: PEDESTRIANS; PARADES
Section
Rights and Duties of Pedestrians
   
74.01   Pedestrians subject to traffic-control signals
   
74.02   Pedestrian right-of-way in crosswalk
   
74.03   Pedestrians to use right half of crosswalk
   
74.04   Crossing at right angles
   
74.05   When pedestrian shall yield
   
74.06   Pedestrians walking along roadways
   
74.07   Pedestrians soliciting rides or business
   
74.08   Drivers to exercise due care
Parades
   
74.20   Definitions
   
74.21   Permit required; exceptions
   
74.22   Permit standards
   
74.23   Certain activities prohibited; revocation of permit
   
74.24   Interference prohibited
RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF PEDESTRIANS
§ 74.01 PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as declared in §§
70.24 and
70.25, but at all other times pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be
subject to the restrictions stated in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 74.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.02 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY IN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation, the
driver of a vehicle shall yield the right-of-way, slowing down or stopping if
need be to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a crosswalk
when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle is
traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the opposite
half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall suddenly leave
a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of a vehicle,
which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield. A pedestrian’s
right-of-way in a crosswalk is modified under the condition and as stated in §
74.05.
   (B)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 74.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.03 PEDESTRIANS TO USE RIGHT HALF OF CROSSWALK.
   Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the right half of
crosswalks.
(Prior Code, § 74.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.04 CROSSING AT RIGHT ANGLES.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb except
in a crosswalk.
(Prior Code, § 74.04) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.05 WHEN PEDESTRIAN SHALL YIELD.
   (A)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than a marked
crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (B)   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian tunnel
or overhead pedestrian crossing has been provided shall yield the right-of-way
to all vehicles upon the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 74.05) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.06 PEDESTRIANS WALKING ALONG ROADWAYS.
   (A)   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any pedestrian
to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
   (B)   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall when practicable walk only on the left side of the
roadway, or its shoulder, facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction.
(Prior Code, § 74.06) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.07 PEDESTRIANS SOLICITING RIDES OR BUSINESS.
   (A)   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride, employment or business from the occupant of any vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a street or highway for
the purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked
or about to be parked on a street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 74.07) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.08 DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subchapter, every driver of
a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon
any roadway, shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary, and shall
exercise proper precaution upon observing any child or any confused or
incapacitated person upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 74.08) Penalty, see §
70.99
PARADES
§ 74.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of such persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention of
the assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
or places.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(Prior Code, § 74.20)
§ 74.21 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or
participate in any parade, picket line, or group demonstration in or upon any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public place within the town, unless a permit
therefor has been issued by the town in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; and/or
      (2)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 74.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.22 PERMIT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards. The Chief of Police shall issue a permit for the proposed
parade unless he or she finds that:
      (1)   The parades, picket lines or group demonstrations are to commence
before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
      (2)   The parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time
and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the Chief of Police or his or her designee;
      (3)   The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
      (4)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the town to police properly the line of movement
of the parade and of contiguous areas so that adequate police protection cannot
be provided the remainder of the town;
      (5)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances so that adequate ambulance service to portions of the town
not occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented;
      (6)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly
points of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
      (7)   The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in
violence to persons or property causing serious harm to the public;
      (8)   The parade is to be held for the primary purposes of advertising a
product, good or event and is designed to be held primarily for private profit;
or
      (9)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment to an extent that adequate fire protection cannot be
provided to the town.
   (B)   Issuance. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue
permits as required in the preceding section and in the issuance thereof the
Chief of Police shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for permit to be filed not less than
24 hours in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration; the
application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any picket
line and the time, place, route and duration of any parade or group
demonstration;
      (2)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 will be permitted to participate; and
      (3)   Require that the application for a permit shall specify and the
permit shall designate the person or persons in charge of the activity. The
person shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line or group
demonstration and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The
permit shall not be valid in the possession of any other person.
   (C)   Additional regulations applicable to picketing. Picket lines and
picketing shall be subject to the following additional regulations:
      (1)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks reserved for
pedestrian movement and may not be conducted on the portion of a street used
primarily for vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Not more than ten pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any one
time;
      (3)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not
exceeding two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for
which the picketing is done, provided that the words used are not derogatory or
defamatory in nature; and
      (4)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not
march closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
(Prior Code, § 74.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 74.23 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of any parade, picket line or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
      (1)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm or any weapon or
article, including, but not limited to, blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights,
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and
      (2)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade,
picket or group demonstration for any of the following reasons;
      (1)   The violation by any participant of division (A) of this section;
or
      (2)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 74.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 74.24 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 74.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Through streets
      
II.   Stop intersections
      
III.   One-way streets
      
IV.   Left turns
      
V.   U-turns prohibited
      
VI.   Speed limits
      
VII.   No through truck traffic
SCHEDULE I. THROUGH STREETS.
Through Street Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Through Street Intersection                                Ord. No. Date Passed
Denise Avenue  West corner of Denise and Durane Streets    -        - -
Erwin Street   West corner of Erwin and Mason Streets      -        - -
Hamer Street   East and west corners of Hamer and Orange   -        - -
               Streets
               East and west corners of Jackson and Carrie -        - -
Jackson Street Streets
               East and west corners of Jackson and        -        - -
               Patterson Streets
Lemon Street   East and west corners of Lemon and Isabella -        - -
               Streets
               East and west corners of Parrish and        -        - -
               Isabella Streets
Parrish Street East and west corners of Parrish and Carrie -        - -
               Streets
               East and west corners of Parrish and Church -        - -
               Streets
South Street   East corner of South and Denise Streets     -        - -
South Street   East corners of Railroad Street and S.R.    -        1-14-1999
               1700
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. I) (Ord. passed 1-14-1999; Ord. passed 5-17-2001)
Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing code provisions, see §
71.60
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   Intersections at which “stop” is required before entering:
Principal Street Intersection Ord. No. Date Passed
Principal Street  Intersection                             Ord. No. Date Passed
Carrie Street     North and south corners of Carrie and    -        11-14-1991
                  Lisa Streets
Carrie Street     North and south corners of Carrie and    -        1-14-1999
                  Erwin Streets
Denise Avenue     West corner of Denise and Derek Streets  -        - -
Denise Street     North corner of Denise and South Streets -        1-14-1999
                  East and west corners of Dooley and      -        - -
                  Mason Streets
                  East and west corners of Dooley and      -        - -
                  Orange Streets
                  East and west corners of Dooley and      -        - -
                  Isabella Streets
Dooley Street     East and west corners of Dooley and Ida  -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Dooley and      -        - -
                  Railroad Streets
                  East and west corners of Dooley and      -        - -
                  McKinley Streets
                  East corner of Dooley and Carrie Streets -        - -
Dunn Street       West corner of Dunn and Mason Streets    -        - -
                  East and west corners of Erwin and       -        1-14-1999
Erwin Street      Carrie Streets
                  East and west corners of Erwin and       -        - -
                  Orange Streets
                  West corner of Hamer and Lincoln Streets -        - -
                  East and west corners of Hamer and Mason -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Hamer and       -        - -
                  Isabella Streets
                  East corner of Hamer and Ida Streets     -        - -
Hamer Street      West corner of Hamer and McKinley        -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Hamer and       -        - -
                  Carrie Streets
                  East and west corners of Hamer and       -        - -
                  Church Streets
                  West corner of Hamer and Patterson       -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Jackson and     -        - -
                  Lincoln Streets
                  East and west corners of Jackson and     -        - -
                  Mason Streets
                  East and west corners of Jackson and     -        - -
                  Orange Streets
                  East and west corners of Jackson and     -        - -
Jackson Street    Isabella Streets
                  East and west corners of Jackson and Ida -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Jackson and     -        - -
                  Railroad Streets
                  East and west corners of Jackson and     -        - -
                  McKinley Streets
                  East and west corners of Jackson and     -        - -
                  Church Streets
                  East and west corners of Lemon and       -        - -
                  Orange Streets
                  East and west corners of Lemon and Ida   -        - -
                  Streets
Lemon Street      West corner of Lemon and Railroad        -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Lemon and       -        - -
                  McKinley Streets
                  East and west corners of Lemon and       -        - -
                  Carrie Streets
Lisa Street       East and west corners of Lisa and Carrie -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Main and Orange -        - -
                  Streets
                  East corner of Main and Mason Streets    -        - -
                  East and west corners of Main and        -        - -
                  Isabella Streets
                  East and west corners of Main and Ida    -        - -
Main Street       Streets
                  East and west corners of Main and        -        - -
                  Railroad Streets
                  East and west corners of Main and Carrie -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Main and Church -        - -
                  Streets
Orange Street     North and south corners of Orange and    -        2-14-1991
                  Lemon Streets
                  East and west corners of Park and Ida    -        - -
Park Street       Streets
                  East corner of Park and Railroad Streets -        - -
                  East corner of Park and Stewart Streets  -        - -
                  East corner of Parrish and Lincoln       -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Parrish and     -        - -
                  Mason Streets
Parrish Street    East and west corners of Parrish and     -        - -
                  Orange Streets
                  East corner of Parrish and Ida Streets   -        - -
                  East and west corners of Parrish and     -        - -
                  McKinley Streets
                  East corner of Pope and Ida Streets      -        - -
                  West corner of Pope and Summit Streets   -        - -
Pope Street       East and west corners of Pope and        -        - -
                  Railroad Streets
                  East corner of Pope and McKinley Streets -        - -
                  East corner of South and Lincoln Streets -        - -
                  East and west corners of South and Mason -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of South and       -        - -
                  Orange Streets
                  West corner of South and Isabella        -        - -
South Street      Streets
                  West corner of Ida Streets               -        - -
                  East and west corners of South and       -        - -
                  Railroad Streets
                  East and west corners of South and       -        - -
                  McKinley Streets
                  East corner of South and Carrie Streets  -        - -
                  East corner of Stewart and Mason Streets -        - -
                  West corner of Stewart and S.R. 1558     -        - -
                  East and west corners of Stewart and     -        - -
                  Orange Streets
Stewart Street    East corner of Stewart and Park Streets  -        - -
                  East corner of Stewart and Ida Streets   -        - -
                  East corner of Stewart and Railroad      -        - -
                  Streets
                  East corner of Stewart and Carrie        -        - -
                  Streets
                  West corner of S.R. 2010 and Church      -        - -
                  Street
State Route 2010  West corner of S.R. 2010 and Carrie      -        - -
                  Street
                  East and west corners of S.R. 2010 and   -        - -
                  McKinley Street
                  East corner of Washington and Lincoln    -        - -
                  Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
                  Mason Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
                  Orange Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
                  Isabella Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
Washington Street Ida Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
                  Railroad Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
                  McKinley Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
                  Carrie Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
                  Church Streets
                  East and west corners of Washington and  -        - -
                  Patterson Streets
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. II) (Ord. passed 11-14-1991; Ord. passed 2-14-1991;
Ord. passed 1-14-1999; Ord. passed 2-14-2002; Ord. passed 6-12-2003) Penalty,
see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing code provisions, see §
71.62
SCHEDULE III. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The following shall be one-way streets:
 
Street                                                Ord. No. Date Passed
Minnie Street, one way south from Main Street for one -        - -
block
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. III) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing code provisions, see §
71.41
SCHEDULE IV. LEFT TURNS.
   Left turns shall be made to the left of the center at the following
intersections:
 
Intersection                                      Ord. No. Date Passed
McKinley Street, at intersection with Main Street -        - -
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. IV) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing code provisions, see §
71.22
SCHEDULE V. U-TURNS PROHIBITED.
   No complete or “U” turns shall be made at the following intersections:
 
Intersection                               Ord. No. Date Passed
Main Street at Ida Street, both directions -        - -
Main Street at Railroad Street             -        - -
Main Street at McKinley Street (NC 55)     -        - -
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. V) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing code provisions, see §
71.22
SCHEDULE VI. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The speed limit shall be 20 m.p.h. on the following streets:
 
Street                                                     Ord. No. Date Passed
Carrie Street from Stewart Street (NC 27) to Crawford Road -        11-14-1991
(S.R. 2006)
McKinley Street (NC 55) from Dooley Street to Washington   -        - -
Street
Main Street from Ida Street to McKinley Street             -        - -
 
   (B)   The speed limit shall be 25 m.p.h. on the following streets:
 
Street                                                    Ord. No. Date Passed
Park Lane from its intersection with S.R. 1700 (Cane Mill
Road) to its termination point at the town recreational   -        4-10-1997
park
 
   (C)   The speed limit shall be 45 m.p.h. on the following streets:
 
Street                                                    Ord. No. Date Passed
S.R. 1701, from S.R. 1700 to the eastern corporate limits -        - -
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. VI) (Ord. passed 11-14-1991; Ord. passed 4-10-1997;
Ord. passed 10-14-2004)
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing code provisions, see 71.02
SCHEDULE VII. NO THROUGH TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   The following streets or portions thereof are designated as no through
streets to trucks:
 
Street            Location                                 Ord. No. Date Passed
                  From the eastern margin of the right-of-
Jackson Street    way of McKinley Street to the western    -        10-10-1991
                  margin of the right-of-way of Lincoln
                  Street
                  From the eastern margin of McKinley
South Street      Street and extending in an easterly      -        10-10-1991
                  direction to the western margin of S.R.
                  1700 or Lincoln Street
                  From the eastern margin of McKinley
Washington Street Street to the western margin of Lincoln  -        10-10-1991
                  Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 75, Sch. VII) (Ord. passed 10-10-1991)
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking prohibited at all times
      
II.   Parking prohibited for certain periods of time
      
III.   Parking ticket and fee schedule
SCHEDULE I. PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES.
   Parking shall be prohibited at all times on the following streets:
Street Location Exceptions Ord. No. Date Passed
Street           Location            Exceptions          Ord. No. Date Passed
                 West side of Church
                 Street from
                 Crawford Street
Church Street    (S.R. 2010) a                           -        - -
                 distance of
                 approximately 200
                 feet
                 Both sides of
                 Isabella Street
Isabella Street  from its                                -        2-14-1991
                 intersection with
                 Washington and
                 Jackson Streets
                 North side of Lemon
Lemon Street     Street between Ida                      -        - -
                 Street and Isabella
                 Street
                 East side of
                 McKinley Street (NC
                 55) for a distance
McKinley Street  of 70 feet north of
(NC 55)          the intersection of                     -        6-9-1983
                 the northern margin
                 of Main Street with
                 the eastern margin
                 of McKinley Street
                 West side of North
                 Ida Street from
North Ida Street Main Street a                           -        - -
                 distance of 100
                 feet
                                     Parking allowed
                                     during funerals
                                     when interment is
                                     being made at
                                     Williams Cemetery
                 Both sides of North located on the west
                 Orange Street from  side of the street
North Orange     its intersection    and persons parking
Street           with Dooley Street  on the street are   -        10-11-1990
                 to its intersection attending the
                 with Williams       services and
                 Street              traffic is being
                                     regulated by a
                                     police officer or
                                     someone on behalf
                                     of the funeral
                                     company
                 Both sides of
                 Orange Street
                 located from the
Orange Street    northern margin of                      -        10-13-1983
                 Lemon Street to the
                 southern margin of
                 Dooley Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, Sch. I) (Ord. passed 6-9-1983; Ord. passed 10-13-1983;
Ord. passed 10-11-1990; Ord. passed 2-14-1991) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing code provisions, see §
72.62
SCHEDULE II. PARKING PROHIBITED FOR CERTAIN PERIODS OF TIME.
   Parking shall be limited to ten minutes on the following streets:
 
Street      Location                                       Ord. No. Date Passed
Main Street North side of Main Street from Ida Street 100  -        - -
            feet west
Main Street South side of Main Street from Railroad Street -        - -
            20 feet west (the first parking space)
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 76, Sch. II) Penalty, see §
70.99
Cross-reference:
   Authorizing code provisions, see §
72.63
SCHEDULE III. PARKING TICKET AND FEE SCHEDULE.
   Fines may be paid by mailing the amount indicated to the address shown, or
by paying the amount at the Town Hall Business office between the hours of 9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
 Parking Violations Fee
    Parking Violations             Fee
1.  No parking zone                $10
2.  Double-parking                 $2
3.  Blocking alley                 $2
4.  Blocking driveway              $2
5.  Parked at fire hydrant         $5
6.  Parked on wrong side of street $2
7.  Parked in fire lane            $10
8.  Handicapped parking            $50
9.  Overtime parking               $2
10. Other                          $2
 
(Ord. passed 8-10-2000)
CHAPTER 77: GOLF CART REQUIREMENTS/RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
77.01   Generally
   
77.02   Definitions
   
77.03   Inspection
   
77.04   State law
   
77.05   Operation
   
77.06   Liability disclaimer
   
77.07   Exemptions
 
   
77.99   Penalty
§ 77.01 GENERALLY.
   Golf carts may be operated on public streets, roads and highways within the
town in accordance with the following rules and regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 77.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 miles per hour.
   STREET or STREETS. Shall include a public vehicular area as defined by G.S.
§ 20-4.01(32).
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 77.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Subject to inspection. Golf carts that operate on a public street,
road or highway within the town shall be subject to an annual inspection by the
Chief of Police, or his or her designee. After successfully completing the
inspection process, the operator may receive a Town of Coats golf cart permit/
sticker, which must be applied to the golf cart by the Chief of Police, or his
or her designee, to insure that the permit/sticker is applied in the most
conspicuous location on the golf cart.
   (B)   Safety requirements. The inspection by the Chief of Police, or his or
her designee, will cover the following safety requirements, and every golf cart
operating on town public streets, roads or highways must have the following
safety equipment:
      (1)   Permits/stickers will be issued to operators of electric and gas
powered golf carts.
      (2)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, and a completed waiver of
liability, releasing the town, its employees, and affiliates from all liability
that may arise as a result of operating a golf cart inside the town. A current
waiver of liability must be on file with the town, and must be renewed
annually.
      (3)   All golf carts must be equipped with a rearview mirror, lap belts
and child restraints for use while it is in motion, and a reflective “slow
moving vehicle” sign affixed on the rear of the golf cart.
      (4)   All golf cart operators must be at least 16 years of age and
possess a valid driver's license, except any driver or operator 18 years of age
or older with a medical or physical condition that prevents that individual
from being able to obtain a valid North Carolina drivers license. The medical
or physical condition must be evidenced with a professionally certified mental
or physical condition which, although it prevents them from driving a licensed
motor vehicle, would not prevent the safe operation of a golf cart and said
certification must be provided from a medical professional. Any driver or
operator that is exempt from the requirement of a valid North Carolina license
must still present and have on record and while operating a golf cart, a valid
North Carolina identification card.
      (5)   Golf carts by design, are equipped to seat a certain number of
passengers. Each golf cart differs in that it may accommodate two to six
passengers, generally. This section is designed to regulate overcrowding or
reckless operation of a golf cart; therefore no passengers are permitted to
stand on a golf cart while it is in operation.
      (6)   Each owner of a golf cart must maintain in force liability
insurance covering the golf cart in at least the minimum coverage amounts
required for motor vehicles by state law and evidence of this liability
coverage must be presented at the time of inspection.
      (7)   (a)   Permits/stickers will be issued annually, and are valid from
July first through June thirtieth. The following fees shall apply:
            1.   Annual inspection by Police Department, $15 (includes permit/
sticker);
            2.   Re-inspection by Police Department upon failure; $5.
         (b)   Permit/stickers of initial inspection issued prior to 7-1-2010
shall be valid through 6-30-2011.
      (8)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the owner.
A police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/sticker.
The Chief of Police will have the discretion in determining whether a permit/
sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of a
previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit/sticker is issued.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.04 STATE LAW.
   (A)   Registration, insurance, applicable laws. Any person who operates a
golf cart in the town, and fails to receive or to properly display a town
permit/sticker will be subject to the state law requiring registration,
insurance, and any other applicable laws, in addition to being in violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Traffic laws. Golf carts will be subject to the traffic laws of North
Carolina:
      (1)   All operators must adhere to all laws that apply to normal vehicle
operation, to wit: stop signs, stop lights, one-way streets, etc. All alcohol
laws will apply.
      (2)   Golf carts will adhere to all traffic flow patterns and will
operate on the right side of the roadway.
      (3)   Golf cart operators must yield the right of way to any overtaking
vehicles.
      (4)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks.
      (5)   Golf carts shall not be operated on private property, without the
permission and consent of the property owner.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.05 OPERATION.
   (A)   Time period. Golf carts that are issued permits to operate under this
ordinance may only be used from sunrise to 30 minutes prior to sunset. No
operation after 30 minutes prior to sunset is allowed.
   (B)   Streets; speed limit. Operation of a golf cart is permitted on public
streets, roads or highways only where the speed limit is 35 miles per hour or
less within the municipal limits of the town.
(Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
77.99
§ 77.06 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   This chapter is adopted to address the interest of public safety. Golf carts
are not designed, or manufactured to be used on public streets, and the town in
no way advocates or endorses their operation on public streets or roads. The
town, by regulating the operation, is merely trying to address obvious safety
issues, and adoption of this chapter is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on a public street is safe or advisable, if done
in accordance with this chapter. All persons who operate or ride upon golf
carts on public streets do so at their own risk and peril, and must be
observant of, and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including
their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. The town has no
liability under any theory of liability, and the town assumes no liability, for
permitting golf carts to be operated on the public streets. Any person who
operates a golf cart is responsible for procuring liability insurance
sufficient to cover the risk involved in operating a golf cart on the public
streets of the town.
§ 77.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemption for municipally owned or leased golf carts and municipal
employees. Golf carts owned or leased by the town are exempt from the above
provisions of this chapter, and may be operated on public streets, roads or
highways within the town limits and on any property owned or leased by the town
for purposes of conducting official town business.
   (B)   Municipal employees age 16 or older. Municipal employees age 16 years
or older are likewise exempt from the above provisions of this chapter and may
operate a golf cart owned or leased by the town as defined by the chapter on
public streets, roads or highways within the town limits and on any property
owned or leased by the town for purposes of conducting official town business.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 77.99 PENALTY.
   Whosoever shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be responsible
for an infraction and shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
Each day that any of the provisions of this ordinance are violated shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   COMMUNITY BEAUTIFICATION
      
93.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
94.   NOISE CONTROL
      
95.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
96.   FIRE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Purpose and intent   
   
90.02   Bird Sanctuary, established
   
90.03   Hunting, killing, and trapping
   
90.04   Keeping livestock and fowl
   
90.05   Number of dogs
   
90.06   Number of cats
   
90.07   Confinement and running at large
   
90.08   Possession of animals and strays
   
90.09   Impoundment and reclaiming of captured animals
   
90.10   Potentially dangerous and dangerous dogs
   
90.11   Inherently dangerous exotic animals
   
90.12   Enforcement and remedies
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   A copy of the Harnett County Animal Control Ordinance is on file in the town
offices.
§ 90.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide and define authority of the
Harnett County Animal Control department within the Towns of Angier, Coats,
Erwin and Lillington. Harnett County Animal Control has charge of protecting
the citizens of these towns from rabies transmitted by unconfined, uncontrolled
or un-immunized animals, to regulate animals that may be a nuisance, to insure
that all animals are treated in a humane manner and in the promotion of
responsible pet ownership and animal welfare. Harnett County Animal Control in
cooperation with the towns of Angier, Coats, Erwin and Lillington are hereby
charged with the responsibility of animal control in conjunction within these
towns’ jurisdictions. This chapter will supersede all town animal control
ordinances and shall pertain to the towns of Angier, Erwin, Coats and
Lillington only. The most current Harnett County Animal Control ordinance shall
also pertain to the towns in agreement of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. passed -1-15-2010)
§ 90.02 BIRD SANCTUARY, ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The area embraced within the corporate limits of the town and all land
owned or leased by the town outside the corporate limits is hereby designated
as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to intentionally trap, hunt, shoot, or otherwise
kill, within a sanctuary hereby established, any native wild bird. It shall be
lawful to trap birds or fowl specifically declared a nuisance by the Town Board
when the birds or fowl are found to be congregating in such number in a
particular locality that they constitute a nuisance or a menace to health or
property.
   (C)   The bird clubs of the town are hereby granted permission to erect
artistic signs, giving notice of the regulations therein provided, at such
places and of such design as may be approved by the Town Board.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Bird Sanctuary establishment, see G.S. § 160A-188
§ 90.03 HUNTING, KILLING, AND TRAPPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or kill any animal within the
territorial, limits of the towns. Trapping may be done with permission from the
Harnett County Animal Control Department. This section does not apply to the
Police Departments or Harnett County Animal Control, or duly authorized agents
when enforcing the provisions provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 KEEPING LIVESTOCK AND FOWL.
   No person may keep within the town any livestock and/or fowl except in
accordance with this section.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep, house or stable
any: horse, mule, pony, cow, sheep, goat or any livestock or fowl within the
corporate limits of the town within 500 feet of any residential of commercial
building, school grounds, church or other establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep or house any
cattle, goat, horse or other livestock or fowl on a fenced lot containing less
then one acre.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep or house within
the town any swine.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to permit any fowl, including but not limited to
chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, guineas or other fowl, to run at large within
the corporate limits of the town.
   (E)   Any fowl kept within the corporate limits of the town must be
contained by a fence, building or other enclosure that will ensure that the
fowl will not run at large.
   (F)   Any fowl found running at large may be taken into possession and/or
destroyed by Harnett County Animal Control anywhere within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (G)   No more than six fowl, including but not limited to chickens, ducks,
geese, turkeys, guineas or other fowl may be kept on a lot containing one acre
or less.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 NUMBER OF DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on any lot or premises within
the corporate limits more than three dogs. This limitation shall not apply to
dogs less than four months of age. Any person wanting to keep more than three
dogs will apply to the town for a license to operate a dog kennel. Prior to the
issuing of such license it shall be determined that the kennel would be in
compliance with all town and state regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 NUMBER OF CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on any lot or premises within
the corporate limits more than three cats. This limitation shall not apply to
cats less than four months of age.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 CONFINEMENT AND RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person, owning or having possession, charge, custody or control of
any animal may cause, permit or allow the animal to stray or in any manner to
run at large upon any public street, sidewalk or other public property or to
stray, run at large or otherwise trespass upon the private property of another.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to allow such animal
to be at large on any town property.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, harboring, keeping or in
charge of any animal to fail or refuse to remove feces deposited by the animal
on any street, sidewalk, park or other publicly owned property.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fait or refuse to
remove feces deposited by the animal on any private property.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 POSSESSION OF ANIMALS AND STRAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in the town knowingly and
intentionally, unless with consent of the owner, to harbor, feed and keep in
their possession by confinement or otherwise allow to remain on their property
any animal which does not belong to them unless they notify Harnett County
Animal Control within 48 hours from the time the animal came into his or her
possession.
   (B)   Any person who feeds a stray animal and/or allows the animal to stay
on their property for at least two days will be considered the legally
responsible for the animal and any violations caused by the animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any the
stray animal to the Police Department or Harnett County Animal Control or
person duly authorized upon demand.
   (D)   The purpose of this section, is to aid in rabies control and to
prevent the intentional or unintentional possession of pets belonging to other
persons.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 IMPOUNDMENT AND RECLAIMING OF CAPTURED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal within the town without an owner, any animal running at
large within the town, or any animal whose owner foils to have the animal
vaccinated in accordance with the laws of the state, or an animal appearing
within the town without a rabies vaccination tag shall be taken by Harnett
County Animal Control and confined for a period of time until reclaimed by the
owner with a pre-paid rabies voucher, adopted with a pre-paid rabies voucher or
euthanized by the Harnett County Animal Control Department.
   (B)   If any animal is not redeemed by the owner within three days from the
time Animal Control takes possession of the animal, the animal shall be put up
for adoption or disposed of under the regulations set forth by the Harnett
County Animal Control Ordinance and the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (C)   In order for the owner to redeem an animal, the owner must first show
that the rabies vaccination tag has been procured. In addition the owner shall
pay a penalty according to the Harnett County Animal Control Ordinance for
allowing the animal to run at large. The fee may be adjusted in the new fiscal
years in the Harnett County Animal fees. The owner must pay daily expenses for
boarding and caring for the animal.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a citizen to keep a dog within the corporate
limits of the town a dog that has been deemed potentially dangerous or
dangerous by Harnett County Animal Control.
   (B)   Any owner found in violation of this section will be required to
release the dog to the Harnett County Animal Control Department for euthanasia
and will face a civil fine of $400.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 INHERENTLY DANGEROUS EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   Shall be in accordance with the Harnett County Animal Control Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010)
§ 90.12 ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Primary responsibility for enforcing the provisions of this chapter is
assigned to the Harnett County Animal Control Department. Municipal police
departments will assist when needed.
   (B)   Remedies shall be in accordance with the Harnett County Animal Control
Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Penalties shall be in accordance with the Harnett County Animal Control
Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 1-15-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Harnett County Animal Control Ordinance, see App. A
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Deed for lot
   
91.02   Cemetery use
   
91.03   Plantings
   
91.04   Monuments and other accessories
   
91.05   Trees and shrubbery
   
91.06   Landscaping
   
91.07   Structures
   
91.08   Transfer of lots
   
91.09   Conduct
   
91.10   Vehicles
   
91.11   Cleanliness
   
91.12   General regulations
   
91.13   Lot charges
   
91.14   Burial regulated
   
91.15   Damaging gravestones and the like prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Cemetery Commission created, see §§
32.60 through
32.64
§ 91.01 DEED FOR LOT.
   All persons desiring to purchase a lot in the town cemetery shall apply to
the Cemetery Commission, which, upon payment of the fixed price for each lot,
shall cause a deed or other instrument of receipt therefor to be given the
purchaser.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
§ 91.02 CEMETERY USE.
   No person shall be interred or disinterred therein without lawful authority
and permission first had and obtained. All graves shall be at least four feet
in depth and all graves shall be dug under the supervision of the Cemetery
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 PLANTINGS.
   No person shall plant or set any tree, shrub, flower, grass or other plant
of any kind in the cemetery except with the approval of and under the
supervision of the Cemetery Commission.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.04 MONUMENTS AND OTHER ACCESSORIES.
   Gravestones, markers, monuments, fencing, shrubs and all other accessories
to be placed upon grave sites are subject to the approval of the Cemetery
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)
§ 91.05 TREES AND SHRUBBERY.
   The pruning or cutting of all trees and shrubbery is hereby prohibited
unless done under the immediate supervision of the Cemetery Commission.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.06 LANDSCAPING.
   All grading, landscaping and improvements of every kind shall be made or
done by the town only.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.07 STRUCTURES.
   No mausoleum, tomb, building or other structure of any kind shall be erected
on any lot within the cemetery, or within any extension of the cemetery;
provided, however, that, mausoleums and tombs may be constructed on lots which
may be designated on the plat and plan of the cemetery from time to time by the
Board as lots to be used exclusively for mausoleums and tombs. Should any
mausoleum, monument or tomb at any time become unsafe, unsightly or in need of
repair or re-setting, the Cemetery Commission shall so notify the owner of the
lot, or any person having an interest in the lot, and shall request that person
to make the needed repairs under his or her supervision, and if that person
shall fail to make the repairs within 30 days thereafter, the Board may order
the repairs to be made or remove the same from the lot as the Board may elect.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 TRANSFER OF LOTS.
   No person who shall purchase any lot in the cemetery from the town shall,
thereafter, convey or alien the same to any other person, except upon the
written permission of the Board, nor in any event for a greater consideration
than that paid for the same lot by the grantor.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.09 CONDUCT.
   No person shall disturb the quiet, repose and good order of the cemetery,
nor shall any person deface, remove, disturb, injure or destroy any tree, plant
or shrub therein, except in the manner herein provided; trespassing within the
cemetery is hereby prohibited, and no person shall commit any illegal act
therein under penalty of the law herein prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 91.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.10 VEHICLES.
   Vehicles shall be driven only upon the roadways within the cemetery and at a
rate of speed not in excess of 15 miles per hour. No vehicles shall enter the
cemetery except for the purpose of attending funerals, visiting graves or other
lawful mission.
(Prior Code, § 91.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.11 CLEANLINESS.
   No person shall deposit any rubbish, filth, waste or other unclean or
unsightly substance in the cemetery, and all materials carried within the
cemetery and not used in the erection of monuments, markers or other lawful
structures authorized herein shall be promptly removed therefrom by the owner
of the lot upon which the monument, marker or structure shall be located.
(Prior Code, § 91.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.12 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   All lots within the cemetery, and within any extension of the cemetery at
any time hereafter made, whether owned by the town or by any other person or
persons, shall be subject to and regulated and controlled by the provisions of
this chapter, and in all deeds of conveyance by the town to any person or
persons for any lot, the following provisions shall be included therein as a
covenant running with the land: “This conveyance is made subject to an
ordinance adopting rules and regulations for the control of the cemetery and
providing penalties in relation thereto duly of record upon the minutes of the
proceedings of the Board of the town, and the grantee herein, his heirs, and
assigns agree that upon the breach of any of its provisions, the title to said
property shall revert to the town.”
(Prior Code, § 91.12)
§ 91.13 LOT CHARGES.
   The cost of lots in the municipal cemetery for residents of the town shall
be kept on file in the office of the Cemetery Commission.
(Prior Code, § 91.13)
§ 91.14 BURIAL REGULATED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bury any human being on any lot
or premises within the corporate limits except within an approved cemetery and
in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   No person shall dig any grave, or put up any gravestone or board, or
make any erections, or dig up any sod on any private burial lot, except under
the direction or by the consent of the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 91.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.15 DAMAGING GRAVESTONES AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall remove the stakes from a burial lot or any board, gravestone
or other monument which may have been erected at any grave, nor deface, injure
or destroy any such board, gravestone or monument in any manner.
(Prior Code, § 91.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: COMMUNITY BEAUTIFICATION
Section
Weeds and Refuse
   
92.01   Uncontrolled growth of weeds, trees, plants and accumulation of refuse
declared public nuisance; complaint and investigation
   
92.02   Notice to abate nuisance
   
92.03   Failure of owner to abate nuisance
   
92.04   Cost incurred by owner
   
92.05   Charges become a lien
   
92.06   Procedure is alternative to other authorized procedures
Abandoned and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
92.30   Preamble
   
92.31   Administration
   
92.32   Definitions
   
92.33   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
92.34   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
92.35   Junked motor vehicles regulated; removal authorized
   
92.36   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
92.37   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
92.38   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
92.39   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
92.40   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
92.41   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
92.42   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
92.43   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
92.44   Exceptions
   
92.45   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Cross-reference:
   Maintenance of public spaces, see §§
130.40 and
130.41
WEEDS AND REFUSE
§ 92.01 UNCONTROLLED GROWTH OF WEEDS, TREES, PLANTS AND ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE
DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE; COMPLAINT AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or
other parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance:
      (1)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 12 inches, causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to
the public health or safety;
      (2)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
      (3)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening
to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health; and
      (4)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
      (5)   Any dead, diseased or damaged trees or plant materials which may
harbor serious insect or pests or disease injurious to other trees or plants is
considered a nuisance. Also any tree in such a state of deterioration that any
part of the tree is likely to fall and damage property or cause injury to a
person is considered a nuisance. Trees and plants cannot be allowed to grow in
such a manner that they block public sidewalks or other types of right of way
or impede pedestrian or vehicle traffic or make travel on sidewalks or roadways
unsafe. Property owners will be sent notification if such tree or plant growth
has been determined to be a nuisance by the Town's Authorizing Official. After
15 days if the nuisance is not abated or an acceptable agreement made between
the property owner and the Town's Authorizing Official, the town may abate the
nuisance and assess the costs involved to the property owner.
   (B)   The Police Chief, the Town’s Zoning Administrator or any other
designee appointed by the Board of Commissioners (hereinafter sometimes called
the Town’s Authorizing Official), upon notice from any person of the existence
of any of the conditions described in division (A) of this section, shall cause
to be made by the appropriate County Health Department official, or town
official, an investigation as may be necessary to determine whether, in fact,
such conditions exist as to constitute a public nuisance as declared in
division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code § 92.01) (Ord. passed 6-10-2004; Ord. passed 9-18-2008; Ord. passed
12-11-2008)
§ 92.02 NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   Upon a determination that such conditions constituting a public nuisance
exist, the town’s Authorizing Official shall notify, in writing, by hand
delivery or by mailing certified return receipt requested, through the United
States Postal Service, the owner, occupant or person in possession of the
premises in question of the conditions constituting the public nuisance and
shall order the prompt abatement thereof within seven days from the receipt of
the written notice.
(Prior Code § 92.02) (Ord. passed 6-10-2004; Ord. passed 9-18-2008) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 92.03 FAILURE OF OWNER TO ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   If any person, having been ordered to abate a public nuisance, fails,
neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the nuisance
within seven days from receipt of the order, the town’s Authorizing Official
shall cause the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having
employees of the town go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the
nuisance under the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town
Manager.
   (B)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may within
the time allowed by this chapter request the town in writing to remove the
condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the request.
(Prior Code § 92.03) (Ord. passed 6-10-2004; Ord. passed 9-18-2008)
§ 92.04 COST INCURRED BY OWNER.
   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel of land, and
it shall be the duty of the Town Clerk-Treasurer to mail a statement of the
charges to the owner or other person in possession of the premises with
instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
(Prior Code § 92.04) (Ord. Ord. 9-18-2008)
§ 92.05 CHARGES BECOME A LIEN.
   In the event that charges for the removal or abatement of a public nuisance
are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of charges as
provided for in §
92.04, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(Prior Code § 92.05)
§ 92.06 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE TO OTHER AUTHORIZED PROCEDURES.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the town from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code § 92.06)
ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 92.30 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-193, 160A-303 and 160A-303.2, the town is
authorized to regulate, restrain or prohibit abandoned, nuisance and junked
motor vehicles on public and private property within the town’s ordinance-
making jurisdiction.
   (B)   The town finds it necessary and desirable to promote or enhance:
      (1)   The quality of urban attractiveness and aesthetic appearance of the
town;
      (2)   The protection of property values throughout the town;
      (3)   The preservation of the liveability and attractiveness of
neighborhoods;
      (4)   The promotion of tourism, conventions, and other opportunities for
economic development for the town; and
      (5)   The promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of
occupants of property in the vicinity of junked motor vehicles.
(Prior Code § 92.30) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 92.31 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Chief and the Town’s Zoning Administrator (hereinafter sometimes
called the Town’s Authorizing Official) or any other designee appointed by the
Board of Commissioners of the town shall be responsible for the administration
and enforcement of this subchapter. The Police Chief, Zoning Administrator or
any other designee appointed by the Board of Commissioners shall be responsible
for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles determined to be
abandoned, nuisance or junked on the public streets and highways within the
town, on property owned by the town and private property. The town may, on an
annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing businesses to
remove, store and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked
motor vehicles in compliance with this subchapter and applicable state laws.
Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to limit the legal authority or
powers of officers of the Police Department and Fire Department in enforcing
other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Prior Code, § 92.31) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002; Ord.
passed 9-18-2008)
§ 92.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property-owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The Police Chief, the Town’s Zoning Administrator or
any other designee appointed by the Board of Commissioners respectively,
designated to authorize the removal of vehicles and order the abatement of
nuisances under the provisions of this subchapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town’s Authorizing Official.
(Prior Code, § 92.32) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002; Ord.
passed 9-18-2008)
§ 92.33 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned, as the
term is defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 92.33) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 92.34 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town’s Administrative Officer may determine
and declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle
as defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 92.34) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 92.35 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined in this subchapter, on the premises of public or private property.
Single permitted junked motor vehicles must strictly comply with the location
and concealment requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or person entitled to the
possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of
the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to
comply with the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this
section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) of this section, upon
investigation, the town’s Administrative Officer may order the removal of a
junked motor vehicle as defined in this subchapter after finding in writing
that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens
imposed on the private property owner. The findings shall be based on a
balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding
gain to the public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood or area
appearance. The following among other relevant factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle.
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle. One junked motor vehicle, in its
entirety, can be located in the rear yard as defined by the town’s zoning
ordinance if the junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed from public view
from a public street and from abutting premises by an acceptable covering.
      (2)   Adequate concealment. The Town’s Administrative Officer has the
authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is adequately concealed
as required by this section. The covering must remain in good repair and must
not be allowed to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure must be compatible
with the objectives stated in the preamble of this subchapter.
      (3)   More than one junked motor vehicle. Any other junked motor vehicle
(s) must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a complete
enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public
street or abutting property. A GARAGE OR BUILDING STRUCTURE means either a
lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to
the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all Zoning and Building Code regulations.
(Prior Code, § 92.35) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 92.36 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in this section, an abandoned, nuisance or junked
motor vehicle which is to be removed shall be towed only after notice to the
registered owner or person entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case
of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the names and mailing
addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the possession of the
vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real property upon which the
vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence,
the notice shall be given by first class mail or hand delivery. The person who
mails or delivers the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show the name
(s) and address(es) to which mailed or delivered, and the date mailed or
delivered. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle
to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing
on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date (no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall state
that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified date, no sooner
than seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is
moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle, but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Board of Commissioners in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board of Commissioners, and further proceedings to remove the
vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Prior Code, § 92.36) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002; Ord.
passed 9-18-2008)
§ 92.37 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorizing
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the public safety and welfare. The findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice include:
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the Board of Commissioners hereby determines that
immediate removal of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed under
code sections.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets and
highways and, on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner as to pose a
traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 92.37) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 92.38 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the services
for the town. Whenever a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle’s owner by
written notice, including the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through
(5) above. Notice shall be mailed by first class mail or hand delivered to the
owner’s last known address, unless this notice is waived in writing by the
vehicle’s owner or his or her agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(A)(1) through (5) above.
(Prior Code, § 92.38) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002; Ord.
passed 9-18-2008)
§ 92.39 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance or junked motor vehicle,
the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a hearing
for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing the
vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive the hearing
request. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11(c), as amended.
(Prior Code, § 92.39) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 92.40 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.40) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 92.41 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town and in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. 1.
(Prior Code, § 92.41) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 92.42 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the Town’s Administrative Officer.
   (B)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Prior Code, § 92.42) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002)
§ 92.43 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 92.43) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 92.44 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to any vehicle which is located in a
bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard”, as defined in G.S. § 136-143,
in accordance with Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.; which is in
an enclosed building; which is on the premises of a business enterprise being
operated in a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the
operation of the enterprise; or which is in an appropriate storage place or
depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(Prior Code, § 92.44) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord., passed 12-12-2002)
§ 92.45 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 92.45) (Ord. passed 5-9-1991; Ord. passed 12-12-2002 ) Penalty,
see §
10.99
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
93.01   Unlawful to violate county health regulations
   
93.02   Unlawful to interfere with Health Officer
   
93.03   Right of entry
   
93.04   Septic tanks regulated
   
93.05   Planting and protection of trees
   
93.06   Removal of stagnant waters
   
93.07   Spitting prohibited
   
93.08   Debris from new construction
§ 93.01 UNLAWFUL TO VIOLATE COUNTY HEALTH REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to violate any
lawfully adopted rule or regulation of the county Board of Health. The
enforcement of this section shall be under the supervision of the county Health
Officer.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 UNLAWFUL TO INTERFERE WITH HEALTH OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, obstruct or delay the Health
Officer or any of his or her assistants in the lawful discharge of their
duties.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   With appropriate warrant or permission of the owner or occupant of the
premises, the County Health Officer or any of his or assistants shall have the
right to enter any premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making
the inspections or investigations.
(Prior Code, § 93.03)
§ 93.04 SEPTIC TANKS REGULATED.
   Septic tanks may be installed where the sanitary sewer is not reasonably
accessible; provided that, the tank is constructed in accordance with the
specifications of the Division of Health Services of the state Department of
Human Resources and that county health regulations are complied with.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 PLANTING AND PROTECTION OF TREES.
   Citizens may plant trees in front of their lots and around their lots on the
sidewalks under the supervision of the Street Commissioner; provided that, they
shall not plant any that are detrimental to the town. No trees shall be planted
in the streets or gutters. No person shall cut or damage any tree upon the
sidewalks of the town without the permission of the Street Commissioner or
shall dig up or injure any tree or shall tack or post any advertisement upon
the trees of the town.
(Prior Code, § 93.05)
Cross-reference:
   Street and sidewalk regulations, see
Ch. 95 and §§
130.20 et seq.
§ 93.06 REMOVAL OF STAGNANT WATERS.
   Stagnant waters in cellars or upon lots shall be removed on notice from the
police to the person permitting the same to remain.
(Prior Code, § 93.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.07 SPITTING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall spit on the sidewalks or on the floors of any public
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 93.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 DEBRIS FROM NEW CONSTRUCTION.
   All refuse, lumber and debris remaining both as a result of the repair of
any new buildings, or of the erection and completion of any new buildings,
shall be removed by the property owner within ten days from the completion of
the aforesaid work.
(Prior Code, § 93.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Ch. 150
CHAPTER 94: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
94.01   Unnecessary noises prohibited
§ 94.01 UNNECESSARY NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
assist in creating, permit, continue or permit the continuance of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise in the town. Noise of a
character, intensity and duration as to be detrimental to the life or health of
any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but the enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in motion
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of the device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The use or operation of any piano, manual or automatic, phonograph,
radio, loud speaker or any other instrument or sound amplifying devices so
loudly as to disturb persons in the vicinity thereof, or in such a manner as
renders the same a public nuisance; provided, however, that, upon application
to the Mayor, permits may be granted to responsible organizations to produce
programs in music, speeches or general entertainment;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or loud
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded, or in a manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of
danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine
or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety and then only with a permit from the
Town Clerk-Treasurer. The permit may be renewed for a period of three days or
less while the emergency continues;
      (10)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, or court while the same is in session, or
within 150 feet of any hospital which unreasonably interferes with the working
of the institution; provided that, conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets indicating that the street is a school, court or hospital street;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street
adjacent to any church, provided that conspicuous signs are displayed in the
streets adjacent to churches indicating that the street is a church street;
      (12)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle or of the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates and containers;
      (13)   The sounding of any bell or gong, attached to any building or
premises, which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity
thereof;
      (14)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers and vendors
which disturbs the quiet and peace of the neighborhood;
      (15)   The use of any drum, loud speaker or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of noise to any
performance, show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (16)   The use of any mechanical loud speakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising purposes or other purposes except where
specific license is received from the Board;
      (17)   The conducting, operating or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted therefrom between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
      (18)   The firing or discharging of squibs, crackers, gunpowder or other
combustible substance in the streets or elsewhere for the purpose of making
noise or disturbance, except by permit from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Excavation and Repair
   
95.01   Permit to dig in streets
   
95.02   Application for permit
   
95.03   Town indemnified
   
95.04   Street repair
   
95.05   Excavations; leaving unprotected
   
95.06   Supervision and control
   
95.07   Disposition of fees
   
95.08   Sidewalk construction
   
95.09   Streets not to be damaged
   
95.10   House moving
   
95.11   Damage to municipal property
EXCAVATION AND REPAIR
§ 95.01 PERMIT TO DIG IN STREETS.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch, trench,
tunnel or hole in, along, across, or under any street, sidewalk or other public
place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires or poles for
any other purposes, unless a written permit therefor has been issued by the
Clerk-Treasurer or some other officer of the town vested with authority to
grant the same; provided that, a permit shall not be required where the work is
performed under a contract with the town, but in the event that the work
requires a sidewalk or street to be wholly or partially obstructed, the person
shall notify the Clerk-Treasurer, the Public Works Department and the Police
Department at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless
prevented by sudden emergency.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   All persons desiring a permit in order to make an opening in any
street or sidewalk, as set forth in §
95.01, shall make written application therefor.
   (B)   The application shall show the location of the proposed opening, the
purpose therefor, and the approximate number of square yards of surface to be
cut. The application shall be accompanied by the fee required by §
95.03 of this chapter.
   (C)   The fee required for making any opening in any street or sidewalk
shall be established by the Board and maintained on file at the town office.
(Prior Code, § 95.02)
§ 95.03 TOWN INDEMNIFIED.
   Any person obtaining a permit as provided for in §§
95.01 and
95.02 herein agrees, as a condition of the issuance of the permit to indemnify
and hold harmless the town against any claims or expenses, including attorney’s
fees, for bodily injury or property damage for accidents or occurrences arising
out of the person’s operations, excluding only the liability of the town for
its sole negligence, except in connection with general supervision of work
performed by the person.
(Prior Code, § 95.03)
§ 95.04 STREET REPAIR.
   (A)   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of
the town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the
excavation or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or
opening so as to restore it to essentially the same condition that existed
prior to the excavation or opening, and the refilling shall be done in
accordance with the standards and specifications issued by the Director of
Public Works or a duly authorized representative.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation neglecting, refusing or failing to
comply with any provisions of this section shall be guilty of a violation
thereof and, where the neglect, refusal or failure is continued, after notice
from the Director of Public Works or an authorized representative, every day’s
continuance thereafter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.05 EXCAVATIONS; LEAVING UNPROTECTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a
permit under the sections of this chapter to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk or public place of the town without placing and maintaining proper
guard rails and signal lights or other warnings at, in or around the same,
sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or work and to protect all
persons using reasonable care from injuries on account of same.
(Prior Code, § 95.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.06 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   All excavations and work in streets, sidewalks, alleys or public places of
the town shall be under the supervision and control of the Director of Public
Works, whose duty it shall be to inspect the same from time to time during the
progress thereof. Upon the completion thereof, the Director shall make a final
inspection and see that the street, sidewalk or public place is restored to a
condition as good in all respects as before the excavation or work was made or
done and that all debris, materials, tools and equipment are removed therefrom.
Any person refusing or failing to comply with any provision of this section
shall be guilty of a violation thereof, and where the failure or refusal is
continued after notice from the Director of Public Works, every day’s
continuance shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 95.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.07 DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All fees collected under the provisions of this chapter shall be paid into
the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 95.07)
§ 95.08 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm or
corporation of any brick, wood or other material without a written permit from
the town.
(Prior Code, § 95.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.09 STREETS NOT TO BE DAMAGED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drag, or run,
or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or
tool upon any asphalt or other type of permanently paved street of the town
which shall damage or cut the surface thereof. It shall also be unlawful to
damage any dirt street in the same manner.
(Prior Code, § 95.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.10 HOUSE MOVING.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Board and the deposit of a good
and sufficient bond in the sum of $500 to cover damage done to the street or
sidewalk or to any property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 95.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.11 DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove or paint upon or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, sign post, street light, traffic signal
or bulletin board or other municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks
except employees of the town in performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 95.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
96.01   Establishment of primary fire limits
   
96.02   Official for fire protection and prevention
   
96.03   Establishment for the storage of flammable liquids in outside above
ground tanks
§ 96.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF PRIMARY FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   The primary fire limits of the town are, by authority of G.S. § 160A-
435, established and described as follows:
      (1)   Entire block bounded by Minnie, Main, McKinley and Washington
Streets;
      (2)   Entire block bounded by Main, Minnie, Railroad and Washington
Streets;
      (3)   Entire Block bounded by Main, McKinley, Lemon and Railroad Streets;
      (4)   East one-half of block bounded by Main, Carrie, Washington and
McKinley Streets;
      (5)   East one-half of block bounded by Main, Railroad, Lemon and
McKinley Streets;
      (6)   South one-third of block bounded by Main, Railroad, Lemon and Ida
Streets;
      (7)   North one-half of block bounded by Main, Railroad, Washington and
Ida Streets;
      (8)   Entire block bounded by McKinley, Stewart, Railroad and Pope
Streets;
      (9)   Entire block bounded by McKinley, Pope, Dooley and Railroad
Streets; and
      (10)   Entire block bounded by McKinley, Stewart, Carrie Streets (if
extended north) and a proposed street located approximately 600 feet north of
and parallel to Stewart Street.
   (B)   No construction or alterations of any kind or description shall be
made in either of the above set out fire districts without a building permit
and full compliance with ordinances governing construction in the town.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Establishment of and restrictions within free limits, G.S. §§ 160A-435 and
160A-436
§ 96.02 OFFICIAL FOR FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION.
   The Chief of the Coats-Grove Fire and Rescue Department (formerly known as
Grove Rural Fire Department) shall be the authorized public official to
administer the ordinances of the town relating to fire prevention and
protection. Whenever the words, “Chief”, “Fire Chief” or “Chief of the “Fire
Department” shall appear in the ordinance of the town, the same shall hereafter
mean the Chief of the Coats-Grove Fire and Rescue, Inc. Department.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. passed 7-13-1989; Ord. passed 7-13-2000; Ord. CR51-
276, passed 1-11-2007)
§ 96.03 ESTABLISHMENT FOR THE STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS IN OUTSIDE ABOVE
GROUND TANKS.
   Above ground tanks for the storage of liquified petroleum gas may be
constructed, used and maintained within the commercially zoned and industrial
zoned areas of the town provided that the same are constructed and maintained
in accordance with the town’s zoning rules and regulations and the appropriate
rules and regulations of the State Building Code relative to the storage,
maintenance and use of above ground liquified petroleum gas products as the
same is set forth in the State Building Code and such other rules and
regulations of appropriate state and federal agencies which do or may hereafter
regulate the use of the same.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. passed 7-13-1989)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSES
      
111.   TAXICABS
      
112.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   CABLE TELEVISION
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License tax upon certain trades and business operations
   
110.03   Unlawful to conduct business without a license
   
110.04   Duration of license
   
110.05   License required for every separate business
   
110.06   License required for every place of business
   
110.07   Display at place licensed required
   
110.08   No abatement of license tax
   
110.09   Schedule of annual privilege license
Cross-reference:
   Regulation of alcohol, see Related Local Laws, Session Laws 1967, Chapter
694
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. The person having the agency for the manufacturer, producer or
distributor.
   BUSINESS. Any business, trade, occupation, profession, avocation or calling
of any kind, subject by the provisions of this chapter to a license tax.
   ENGAGED IN THE BUSINESS. Engaged in the business as owner or operator.
   FISCAL YEAR. The period beginning with the July 1 and ending with the June
30 next following.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, company or corporation.
   QUARTER. Any three consecutive months.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 LICENSE TAX UPON CERTAIN TRADES AND BUSINESS OPERATIONS.
   In addition to the tax on property, as otherwise provided for, and under the
power and authority conferred in the laws of the state, there shall be levied
and collected annually or more often, where provided for, a privilege license
tax on trades, professions, business operations, exhibitions, circuses and all
subjects authorized to be licensed, as set out in the following sections and
schedule. All licenses shall be a personal privilege and shall not be
transferable. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent the Board
from imposing from time to time, as it may see fit, the license taxes as are
not specifically herein defined, or from increasing or decreasing the amount of
any special license tax, or from prohibiting or regulating the business or acts
licenses, and all licenses are granted subject to the provisions of existing
ordinances or those hereafter enacted.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.03 UNLAWFUL TO CONDUCT BUSINESS WITHOUT A LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or his or her agent or servant to engage
in or carry on a business in the town for which there is required a license,
without first having paid the license tax and obtained the license. For the
purpose of this section the opening of a place of business or offering to sell,
followed by a single sale or the doing of any act or thing in furtherance of
the business shall be construed to be engaging in or carrying on the business;
and each day that the person, firm or corporation shall engage in or carry on
the business as aforesaid, shall be construed to be a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   All taxes provided for and fixed in the following sections and schedule
shall be for 12 months, unless otherwise specified, and shall so remain for 12
months beginning July 1 and ending June 30, provided that where the license is
issued after January 1, then the licensee shall be required to pay one-half the
tax prescribed, except where otherwise specifically provided for.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY SEPARATE BUSINESS.
   The payment of any particular tax imposed by this chapter shall not relieve
the person paying the same from the payment of any other tax imposed by this
chapter for any other business the person may carry on, unless so provided by
the section imposing the tax, it being the intent of this chapter that license
taxes prescribed by various sections or subsections of this chapter applicable
to any business shall be cumulative except where otherwise specifically
provided.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
§ 110.06 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EVERY PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   A license issued for the privilege of conducting a business is only valid
for the business conducted at the place and by the licensee named therein.
Every person doing business in more than one factory, mill, warehouse or store,
stall or stand, or other place of business shall secure a separate license for
each place of business, unless the places of business are contiguous to each
other, communicate directly with an opening into each other, and are operated
as a unit. If the business is moved or if the licensee sells to another, then a
new license is necessary, unless a special permit to continue business under
the original license is obtained from the Board.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)
§ 110.07 DISPLAY AT PLACE LICENSED REQUIRED.
   Every license must be kept prominently displayed at the place of business of
the licensee named in the license, or, if the licensee has no fixed place of
business, the licensee must keep the license wherever the business is being
operated and where it can be inspected at any time by the proper municipal
official.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
§ 110.08 NO ABATEMENT OF LICENSE TAX.
   No license tax shall be abated nor shall any refund of any part thereof be
made in any case where the licensee discontinues the business before the end of
the period for which the license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 110.08)
§ 110.09 SCHEDULE OF ANNUAL PRIVILEGE LICENSE.
   The town’s schedule of annual privilege licenses is hereby incorporated into
this code of ordinances by reference and is on file for public inspection in
the office of the Clerk-Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 110.09)
CHAPTER 111: TAXICABS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Unlawful to operate without certificate
   
111.03   Application required
   
111.04   Town Manager issues certificates
   
111.05   Duration of certificate
   
111.06   Determination of convenience and necessity
   
111.07   Hearing; notices
   
111.08   Burden of proof
   
111.09   Failure to begin operations
   
111.10   Transfer
   
111.11   Revocation of certificate
   
111.12   Substitution of vehicles
   
111.13   No person to hold more than one certificate
Statutory reference:
   Provisions regulating taxicabs see G.S. § 160A-304
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes both singular and plural; also includes persons,
individuals, firms, corporations, partnerships and associations.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle seating nine or fewer passengers, operated upon
any street or highway on call or on demand, accepting or soliciting passengers
indiscriminately for hire between the points along streets or highways as may
be directed by the passenger or passengers so being transported, but shall not
include motor vehicles or motor carriers as defined in G.S. § 62-3(17) and
(18).
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT CERTIFICATE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab upon and over the
streets of the town without first having applied for and secured from the Town
Manager a certificate of convenience and necessity as hereinafter set forth.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to operate a taxicab upon and over the streets of the
town shall file on forms supplied by the Town Clerk-Treasurer an application
for certificate of convenience and necessity.
(Prior Code, § 111.03)
§ 111.04 TOWN MANAGER ISSUES CERTIFICATES.
   The Manager shall have the power and it will be its duty to order certain
certificates, refuse to issue certain certificates, or to issue certificates
for partial exercise of the rights granted upon the terms and conditions as in
its judgment the public convenience and necessity may require.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 DURATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate shall constitute a franchise from the town for the operation
of taxicabs within the town subject to the provisions of this chapter for one
year, unless a shorter period of time is specified in the certificate.
Applications for renewal shall be filed annually and a hearing conducted as
herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 111.05)
§ 111.06 DETERMINATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   (A)   In determining whether the public convenience and necessity require
the franchising of a taxicab or taxicabs, the Town Manager shall, among other
things, take into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Whether or not the public convenience and necessity require the
proposed or additional taxicab service within the town;
      (2)   The financial responsibility of the applicant and the likelihood of
the proposed service being permanent, responsible and satisfactory;
      (3)   The number and condition of equipment;
      (4)   The schedule of proposed rates, if required by the Town Manager, to
be charged;
      (5)   The number of taxicabs now operated and the demand for increased
service, if any, and whether or not the safe use of the streets by the public,
both vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved, and whether or not adequate
provision has been made for off-street parking of the taxicabs;
      (6)   The experience of applicant in the taxicab business; and
      (7)   Such other relative facts as may be deemed necessary and advisable.
   (B)   Before making any decision with respect to the issuance of a
certificate of convenience and necessity, the Town Manager, or a committee
thereof, shall make a full and complete investigation of all facts and, if it
so desires, subpoena witnesses and utilize the services of the Chief of Police
or any other officer or employee of the town.
(Prior Code, § 111.06)
§ 111.07 HEARING; NOTICES.
   Each application for certificate of convenience and necessity shall be
scheduled for a hearing not later than 30 days after the same is filed, and the
applicant shall be notified by the Town Clerk-Treasurer by mail to the business
address set forth in the application of the date and time of the hearing, the
notification to be sent at least ten days before the date set for the hearing.
The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall also, within the same time, notify all persons
who at the time hold certificates of convenience and necessity for the
operation of taxicabs within the municipality, of the date and time for the
hearing and the name of the applicant. In addition, the Town Manager shall have
the power to have published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation, at least ten days before the hearing, a notice setting forth the
name of the applicant and the date and time of hearing. The cost of the
publication shall be paid by the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 BURDEN OF PROOF.
   The burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to establish the existence
of public convenience and necessity for the operation of the taxicab or
taxicabs specified in the application and all other facts required for the
granting of a certificate.
(Prior Code, § 111.08)
§ 111.09 FAILURE TO BEGIN OPERATIONS.
   If a certificate is granted to an applicant and the applicant shall fail, in
accordance with the provisions of the certificate, to begin operation within 60
days after the date of the certificate, then the certificate shall become null
and void and no refund of any amount paid by the applicant will be made by the
town.
(Prior Code, § 111.09)
§ 111.10 TRANSFER.
   A certificate is not transferable without the consent and approval of the
Town Manager. Applications for a permit to transfer shall be filed in the same
manner as an application for a certificate of convenience and necessity. The
proceedings upon the application for a transfer shall be the same as those
prescribed for the issuance of a certificate, except that the question of
public convenience and necessity need not be proved. No certificate will be
issued to any applicant, unless the applicant be the holder in due course and
for value of the title to the taxicab, and the holder of the certificate only
shall be permitted to operate the taxicab, and the applicant shall not be
allowed to engage the services of any person to operate the taxicab for the
applicant or in his or her stead at any time.
(Prior Code, § 111.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11 REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The Town Manager may at any time after a public hearing revoke any
certificate issued by authority of this chapter for any one or more of the
following causes:
      (1)   Failure to operate the taxicab specified in the certificate in a
manner as to serve the public adequately and efficiently;
      (2)   Failure to maintain motor equipment in good repair;
      (3)   Failure to carry liability insurance or bond as required by law;
      (4)   Failure to pay to the town taxes or license fees of $15 imposed
upon the taxicabs;
      (5)   Repeated and persistent violation by the taxicab drivers of traffic
and safety ordinances or state laws relating to alcoholic beverages or
prostitution;
      (6)   Failure to report accidents; or
      (7)   Willful failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or
other ordinances or state laws relating to the operation of taxicabs, whether
the ordinances and laws be now in force or hereafter enacted into ordinances
and into laws.
   (B)   No certificate shall be revoked until the owner has had at least five-
days’ notice by personal service or registered mail of the charges against him
or her and of the time and place of the hearing. If, after the hearing, it is
found that the owner is guilty of one or more of the offenses listed herein,
the Town Manager shall have the power to revoke the certificate or to condition
a revocation upon compliance of its order within any time fixed by it.
(Prior Code, § 111.11)
§ 111.12 SUBSTITUTION OF VEHICLES.
   The person to whom a certificate has been issued may, by proper endorsement
thereon by the Town Clerk-Treasurer, substitute another vehicle, or other
vehicles, for the vehicle or vehicles for which certificate was granted. In
such instances, the liability insurance or bonds shall also be transferred to
the substitute vehicle or vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 111.12)
§ 111.13 NO PERSON TO HOLD MORE THAN ONE CERTIFICATE.
   The Town Manager reserves the right to issue only one certificate to any one
person and the person holding the certificate shall be required to operate the
taxicab himself or herself and shall have no power or authority by virtue of
the certificate to delegate the operation of the taxicab to any person.
(Prior Code, § 111.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
Section
   
112.01   Authority to regulate
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required
   
112.04   Operation permit required
   
112.05   Subsequent operation permit limit
   
112.06   Prerequisite to issuance of operation permit
   
112.07   Amount of license
   
112.08   Amount of operation permit
   
112.09   Requirements of license application
   
112.10   Enforcement
§ 112.01 AUTHORITY TO REGULATE.
   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-178, the town is empowered by ordinance to
regulate, restrict or prohibit the business activities of itinerant merchants,
salespersons, promoters, drummers, peddlers or hawkers within its corporate
limits which may include, but is not limited to, requirements that an
application be made and a permit issued and that activities reasonably limited
as to time and place and that pursuant to the enabling legislation, the Board
of Commissioners of the town desire to exercise the authority granted to it by
General Statute.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, a TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT
MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR is defined as any person, firm or corporation,
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the town
or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares and merchandise within said town, and who, in furtherance of such
purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad box car, or boat, public room in hotels, lodging
houses, apartments, shops or any street, alley, or other place within the town,
for the exhibition and sale of goods, wares and merchandise, either privately
or at public auction; provided that, the definition shall not be construed to
include any person, firm or corporation who, while occupying the temporary
location, does not sell from stock, exhibits samples only for the purpose of
securing orders for future delivery only. The person, firm or corporation so
engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this
chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting the transient business in
connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer.
   (B)   The terms transient merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor,
promoter, drummer, peddler or hawker shall not mean or include the following:
      (1)   Civic club groups who shall from time to time serve foods and/or
drinks for non-profit or profit for charitable purposes;
      (2)   Resident homeowners who shall within their own residential yards or
other premises offer items for sale (such events usually known as “yard
sales”); or
      (3)   Farmers who shall offer for sale agricultural products grown on
their farms or orchards whether owned or leased.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for an itinerant merchant, promoter, drummer, peddler
or hawker, as defined in §
112.02 of this chapter, to engage in the business within the town without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 OPERATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for an itinerant merchant, promoter, drummer, peddler
or hawker to engage in such business within the town without first obtaining an
operation permit which shall allow the permittee to retail his or her
merchandise for a period not to exceed 24 hours within a 48-hour period; the 48
hours to run consecutively and the 48-hour period to be designated as an
“operation permit”; the 24-hour retail period can be distributed within the 48
hours as desired by the applicant or operation permit.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05 SUBSEQUENT OPERATION PERMIT LIMIT.
   A second or subsequent operation permit shall not be issued to the same
itinerant merchant, promoters, drummer, peddler or hawker until not less than
20 calendar days have elapsed from the issuance of a previous operation permit
(48-hour period); provided further that, no more than five operational permits
shall be issued to any one itinerant merchant, salesperson, promoter, drummer,
peddler or hawker within any fiscal year period (a fiscal year is defined as
commencing on July 1 of a year and extending through June 30 of the succeeding
year).
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986)
§ 112.06 PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE OF OPERATION PERMIT.
   (A)   An operation permit shall not be issued to any itinerant merchant,
salesperson, promoter, drummer, peddler or hawker until the person shall first
display to the officials of the town a written lease or permission duly signed
by a property owner or owners duly notarized by an officer who is authorized to
take sworn statements under the laws of the state, the property owner or owners
being the person who owns the lands upon which the business of the itinerant
merchant, salesperson, promoter, drummer, peddler or hawker shall be conducted;
provided further, however, that, the lands upon which the said business shall
be conducted shall be appropriately commercially zoned for the business
activity to be conducted on the premises; provided further that, the written
permission shall designate the dates for which the operation of the business of
the permittee is to be permitted.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of an operation permit to any applicant who
proposes to operate his business on lands adjoining the main transportation
arteries of McKinley Street (N.C. Highway No. 55) and Stewart Street (N.C.
Highway No. 27), the applicant shall provide five off-street parking spaces on
the lands upon which he or she proposes to operate or on adjoining lands or
lands nearby with appropriate signs to direct traffic to the parking; the
applicant shall provide on his or her application form or separate statement,
his or her plan for off-street parking in such detail as to satisfy the town of
his or her plan to meet the requirements; provided that, on days and times that
the town and its citizens are observing town-wide celebrations (such as the
Annual Farmer’s Day event or other annual or special events) where the town
expects large groups of people to attend and heavy automobile traffic, within
the town, the Town Board of Commissioners may, by resolution, suspend the
issuance of operation permits to applicants for operations along the main
transportation arteries of McKinley Street and Stewart Street during the
celebration days. Any applicant is deemed to be operating on lands adjoining
the main arteries if his or her items for sale are displayed for sale within
100 feet of the street.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986)
§ 112.07 AMOUNT OF LICENSE.
   The amount to be paid for the license to be issued hereunder shall be $35
for each fiscal year period (fiscal year is defined as commencing on July 1 of
a year and extending through June 30 of the succeeding year); provided that, if
an application for license is received after the commencement of a particular
fiscal year period, the license shall be issued for the balance of the fiscal
year in which the application is received; provided further that, an
application for license is received within 90 days from the expiration of any
particular fiscal year, then the amount to be charged for said license shall be
$10.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986)
§ 112.08 AMOUNT OF OPERATION PERMIT.
   An applicant for the issuance of an operation permit shall pay a fee of $10
for the issuance of each operation permit.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986)
§ 112.09 REQUIREMENTS OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Each person making application for a license hereunder shall complete an
application form or statements enclosing or showing substantially the
information required by §
112.02 above.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986)
§ 112.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town may seek enforcement of this chapter by appropriate equitable
remedy authorized by G.S. § 160A-175 to include injunction against persons
violating this chapter and owners of land upon whose premises persons have
violated this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1986)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pool Rooms and Bowling Alleys
   
113.01   License required
   
113.02   Application for license; grounds for refusal
   
113.03   Form and content of license
   
113.04   Prohibitions to be observed by licensee and employees; rules for
operation of pool rooms
   
113.05   Licensee responsible
   
113.06   Revocation of licenses
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate amusements, see G.S. § 160A-194
POOL ROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
§ 113.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall maintain or operate any pool or billiard table, bowling
alley or other table or alley for any game or play for which a charge is made,
either directly or indirectly, unless the person shall first have secured a
license from the Town Manager to do so. Licenses shall expire on June 30 each
year and shall not be transferable.
(Prior Code, § 113.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL.
   (A)   Applications for a license shall be made upon forms provided by the
Town Clerk-Treasurer and shall contain all information necessary for the Town
Manager to act intelligently upon the applications.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall not issue a license to any person:
      (1)   Who has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors
or narcotic drugs;
      (2)   Who is not a citizen and resident of the state; or
      (3)   Who is a habitual user of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs.
(Prior Code, § 113.02)
§ 113.03 FORM AND CONTENT OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall specify the premises for
which it is issued, the number of tables or alleys to be operated thereunder,
the name of the owner or operator, and the dates upon which the license begins
and shall expire. The license shall be posted in a prominent place on the
premises at all times.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 PROHIBITIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY LICENSEE AND EMPLOYEES; RULES FOR
OPERATION OF POOL ROOMS.
   (A)   Prohibitions. Licensees under this chapter shall not and neither shall
their employees:
      (1)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time,
nor the sale or use of any racing, football or other parlay cards or gambling
boards;
      (2)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly or
permit any illegal act;
      (3)   Suffer or permit any intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs to be
sold or kept or consumed on the licensed premises;
      (4)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who has been
convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs; and
      (5)   Suffer or permit any keeley board, keno board or any other board or
device to be attached to or placed upon any pool or billiard tables.
   (B)   Rules for operation of pool rooms. The following rules shall be
observed by all operators of pool rooms within the town.
      (1)   All pool rooms shall close at 1:00 a.m. each morning, Monday
through Friday, and at 12:00 a.m. midnight on Saturdays and Sundays, and no
person other than the owner, operator, or employees shall be permitted on the
premises from that hour until 7:00 a.m. the following morning or until 1:00
p.m. on Sunday.
      (2)   No play on any table shall be allowed during the times when
poolrooms are required by this chapter to remain closed.
      (3)   All poolrooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building, and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the building
facing any street, so that a clear view inside may be had from the street.
      (4)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions
shall be placed between the entrance to the room where pool is played and the
rear wall of the room. A clear view of the interior from the entrance to the
rear of the room must be maintained at all times.
      (5)   No partitions forming rooms, stalls or other enclosures where the
public congregate shall be permitted, provided that this shall not be construed
so as to prohibit the maintenance of closets used exclusively for storage
purposes or of toilets.
      (6)   There shall not be permitted or maintained any open or secret
connections through doors, windows, trap doors, hidden doors, panels, stairways
or other devices with any place where gambling is conducted or where persons
meet or congregate for immoral purposes.
(Prior Code, § 113.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.05 LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE.
   The acts and conduct of the agents and employees of the licensee in the
conduct of the business shall be deemed to be the acts and conduct of the
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 113.05)
§ 113.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   A second conviction of a licensee, or of an agent or employee, for any
violation of any provision of this chapter shall by operation of law constitute
an automatic revocation of the license of the licensee. In addition, the Town
Manager may at any time, for cause, and after a hearing, of which the licensee
shall be given reasonable notice as the Town Manager may direct, revoke any
license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 113.06)
CHAPTER 114: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
114.01   Short title
   
114.02   Purpose and authority
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Franchise required
   
114.05   Procedure for granting a franchise
   
114.06   Acceptance of franchise; effective date
   
114.07   Provisions governing the term, renewal, renegotiation and transfer of
a franchise
   
114.08   Franchise area and extension of service
   
114.09   Regulation of rates
   
114.10   Payment to the town
   
114.11   Insurance, penalties and enforcement
   
114.12   System design provisions
   
114.13   Construction provisions; use of streets and pole attachments
   
114.14   Operations and maintenance provision
   
114.15   Rights reserved to the town
   
114.16   Franchisee’s right to appeal
   
114.17   Rights reserved to the franchisee
   
114.18   Miscellaneous provisions
   
114.19   Regulatory entity
   
114.20   Franchisee application
§ 114.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Town of Coats Cable Television
Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 114.01) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   In the public interest and for the promotion of the public health, safety,
welfare and convenience and pursuant to statutory authority contained in G.S.§
160A-319, and other applicable laws, the following rules are adopted, which
rules set forth the conditions, limitations, restrictions and requirements
under which a person may construct or cause to be constructed, operate and
maintain a cable television system and engage in the business of providing a
cable television service in the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 114.02) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS CHANNELS. Those channels which are to be kept available by the
franchisee for partial or total dedication to public access, educational
access, local government access or leased access.
   CABLE OFFICE. The business office of the franchisee which shall be
conveniently accessible to the public and located in the franchise area or in
an area served by the franchisee within the county.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM. Any facility that, in whole or in part, receives
directly, or indirectly over the air and amplifies or otherwise modifies the
signals transmitting programs broadcast by one or more television stations,
radio stations or other electronic signals and distributes the signals by wire
or cable to subscribing members of the public who pay for the service, but the
term shall not include any facility that serves fewer than 75 subscribers; any
facility that serves only the residents of one or more apartment dwellings
under common ownership, control or management, and commercial establishments
located on the premises of an apartment house; and any facility that serves
only the residents of an overnight residential business establishment (such as,
hotel, motel and the like) or any commercial establishments or private
organizations or associations that services only its own employees, members of
the general public upon its own premises, or its own members as the case may
be.
   CATV. Cable television.
   EXTENSION COSTS. One time pro rata energizing charges and cable costs,
inclusive of direct and indirect overhead so as to reflect the equivalent
actual cost of equipment, wire and installation labor above and beyond the cost
of a normal drop.
   FCC REGULATIONS. The present and future valid rules and regulations
promulgated by the FCC and applicable to cable television systems in the town.
   FCC. The federal regulatory agency or agencies having regulatory
jurisdiction over cable television.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners
designating a franchisee for the operation of a cable television system in a
designated basic area within the town, and designating the particular terms and
provisions thereof, as shall supplement this chapter to include by
incorporation the application for franchise made by the franchisee.
   FRANCHISE. Authorization granted pursuant to the terms of this chapter to
construct, operate, and maintain a cable television system within all, or a
specified area, in the corporate limits of the town. The franchise shall be
granted in the form of a franchise ordinance (herein also sometimes referred to
as the FRANCHISE AGREEMENT) separate and distinct from any license or permit
required for the privilege of transacting and carrying on business within the
town as required by other ordinances and laws of the town. The franchise
ordinance, together with this chapter, shall contain the terms and conditions
upon which any cable television system may be operated in the town.
   FRANCHISEE. The person, firm or corporation granted a franchise by the Board
of Commissioners under this chapter and their lawful successors or transferees.
   GROSS SUBSCRIBER REVENUES. Any and all compensation and other consideration
in any form received by the franchisee arising from the sale of services
offered under the authority of its franchise; provided, the term shall not
include any sales, service, rent, occupational or other excise tax to the
extent the taxes are charged separately in addition to the regular monthly
service and any additional services and are remitted to a taxing authority.
   NORMAL DROP. The conductor which provides subscriber interconnection to an
existing or required cable television system feeder leg with a cable length not
to exceed 200 feet, including the cable length required within the subscriber’s
premises, as measured from the nearest street or road right-of-way line. NORMAL
DROP shall mean a cable television signal cable and appurtenances of such
construction, installations and system interconnection as provides signal
levels of the quality and strength consistent with the technical quality
requirements of the FCC rules. It may be overhead or underground. Drops in
excess of the normal length shall be in accordance with the provisions of the
line extension policy in this chapter.
   PROPERTY OF FRANCHISEE. All property owned and installed or used by the
franchisee in the operation of a cable television system or service in the
county under authority of a franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
   STREET or ROAD. The surface of and the space above and below any publicly-
or privately-owned or maintained property or any public street, right-of-way,
highway, freeway, bridge, lane, path, alley, court, sidewalk, cartway, drive,
existing as such within the franchise area.
   SUBSCRIBER or USER. Any person lawfully receiving, for any purpose any
service of the franchisee’s cable television system.
   TWO-WAY CAPACITY. The system shall maintain a plant having technical
capacity for audio and video return communications.
(Prior Code, § 114.03) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.04 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, operate or construct a cable
television system in the corporate limits of the town or to provide cable
television service to any subscriber within the town, except pursuant to a
franchise agreement granting the right to do so between the town and the
franchisee, which agreement shall incorporate by reference and be subject to
this chapter to the same extent as though this chapter in its entirety is a
part of the agreement. Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the
franchisee may designate others under contractual arrangement, to construct,
own and lease to the franchisee the physical assets of the cable television
system; provided, however, that, the franchisee shall be fully and solely
responsible under the terms of this chapter and the franchise agreement.
Neither the franchise, nor any rights of the franchisee arising thereunder
shall be assigned, without the prior written consent of the Board of
Commissioners. Nothing in this section is intended to prevent the Board from
granting a pre-existing permitted use franchise to any CATV system in operation
in the corporate limits of the town at the time of passage of this chapter
under such terms and conditions as will enable that CATV to maintain its then
current customers for a sufficient length of time to recoup its investment.
(Prior Code, § 114.04) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.05 PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING A FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Applications. Applications for construction, operation and maintenance
of CATV systems shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Hearing. The Board shall have a full and complete public hearing
affording all interested parties, including members of the public, the right to
be heard. The Board may at the conclusion of the hearing or some subsequent
time, grant a franchise to the applicant whose proposed system is in the best
interest of the public and the potential subscribers within the area covered by
the franchise.
   (C)   Contents of application. The application, filed by a person seeking
issuance of a franchise, shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is a
partnership, the name and address of each partner must be submitted. If the
applicant is a corporation, the application shall state the names and addresses
of its directors, officers, parent and subsidiary companies and all
shareholders owning as much as 5% of the outstanding stock of any class, and
shall include a certified copy of its articles of incorporation together with
all amendments thereto. The application shall state the names and address of
all persons whose beneficial interest in the applicant amounts to 5% or more,
regardless of how the interest is held.
      (2)   A statement demonstrating the applicant’s experience and expertise,
if any, in establishing a cable television system and in providing a CATV
service, including the names and locations of any other CATV systems currently
or formerly constructed, operated or maintained by the applicant.
      (3)   If applicant had prepared by a certified public accountant, an
audit for the fiscal year next preceding the application date, a copy of that
audit. In any event an income statement and balance sheet for the fiscal
quarter next preceding the application which may be either audited or
unaudited, which shall show the applicant’s financial status and its financial
ability to complete the construction of the proposed CATV system and to provide
the CATV service. Any additional financial information which the applicant
feels would further evidence his or her ability to construct the proposed
system and provide CATV service may also be submitted. Information with respect
to financial projections of the proposed system, including methods of
financing, shall be submitted as part of the application. All financial and
ownership information relating to the applicant submitted in compliance with
this chapter shall be confidential and shall not be regarded as public
information to the extent provided by law.
      (4)   To the extent permitted by law, a statement containing a
description of the CATV system proposed to be constructed, installed,
maintained and operated by the applicant, the technical specifications of the
materials to be used, the services to be provided to subscribers, the services,
material and equipment to be provided without cost to local government units,
qualified under the FCC regulations, the facilities, material and equipment to
be made available for access cablecasting, the manner in which the applicant
proposes to construct, install, maintain and operate the system, and the extent
and manner in which existing or future poles or other facilities of other
public utilities will be used for the system. The statement required by this
subdivision shall include all information above, relative to the full term of
the franchise and not merely the initial system.
      (5)   A statement setting forth all agreements and understandings,
whether written or oral, or implied, existing between the applicant and any
person or entity with respect to the ownership, control or transfer of the
proposed franchise or the proposed CATV system and service. If a franchise is
granted to a person who is an agent or representative of another person, and
the relationship is not disclosed in the original application, the franchise
shall be void and of no force and effect.
      (6)   A statement or schedule of proposed rates and charges to
subscribers for installation and service, and a list of those services to be
provided to subscribers.
      (7)   The applicant shall provide to the Board any additional information
which the Board deems necessary. A request by the Board for additional
information shall be made in writing after the opening of applications and
before the public hearing.
   (D)   Reservation of rights. The town expressly reserves the right or
privilege to grant by franchise to any other person the right to construct,
operate and maintain a CATV system within the same area during the same period
of time granted to any other franchisee.
   (E)   Findings. If the Board determines that no system proposed by any
applicant is in the best interest of the public, no franchise will be granted.
The franchise, if granted, shall contain recitations that demonstrate that the
Board has examined and approved the franchisee’s legal, financial and technical
qualifications, as well as the adequacy and feasibility of franchisee’s
construction arrangements, concluding that the granting of the franchise to the
applicant is in the best interest of the public and potential subscribers.
(Prior Code, § 114.05) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.06 ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Time. Within 60 days after the Board has granted the franchise, the
franchisee shall file with the Clerk to the Board, a written acceptance of the
franchise, acknowledged before a notary public. This acceptance shall
acknowledge that the franchisee agrees to be bound by and to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, and the assurances set forth in his or her
application, and shall be of the form and of the content, as shall be
satisfactory to and be approved by the Town Attorney.
   (B)   Other requirements. Concurrently with the filing of the written
acceptance, the franchisee shall file with the Clerk to the Board the bond and
proofs of insurance as required by §
114.11(C) and (D) of this chapter and proof of loan commitments or other proof
of ability to obtain construction funds.
   (C)   Effective date. The effective date of this franchise shall be the date
on which the franchisee files the acceptance, bond, proof of insurance, and
proof of acquisition of construction funds as required in this section;
provided, however, if any of the material required to be filed with the
acceptance or the acceptance itself is defective or fails to meet with
approval, the franchise shall not be effective until the defect is cured or the
approval is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 114.06) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.07 PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE TERM, RENEWAL, RENEGOTIATION AND TRANSFER OF
A FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Term. The franchise and rights therein granted shall take effect and
be in force for a period of 15 years from and after the grant and acceptance
date of the franchise, unless the time is extended by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   Termination of franchise. Upon termination of the franchise for
whatever reason, including expiration or revocation, the town shall have the
right to determine whether the franchisee shall be eligible to continue to
operate and maintain the CATV system.
   (C)   Expiration of franchise.
      (1)   Within three years of the expiration of the term of the franchise
and subject to approval by the Board of Commissioners, the franchisee may
negotiate renewal of its franchise for an additional period not inconsistent
with FCC rules and regulations.
      (2)   The franchisee shall notify the town in writing not less than one
year in advance of the expiration date of its desire to renew or not to renew
the franchise. The town may propose certain franchise modifications to the
franchisee and make any given renewal contingent upon acceptance of such
modifications. Renewal shall be preceded by a public hearing held at least 30
days in advance of decision by the Board of Commissioners. A renewal may be
granted not more than two years prior to the expiration of any existing term.
The Board of Commissioners may determine whether or not the franchisee has
performed satisfactorily its obligations under the franchise by reviewing the
following:
         (a)   Technical developments and performances of the system;
         (b)   Programming;
         (c)   Other services offered;
         (d)   Cost of service;
         (e)   Compliance with any requirement in the ordinance or in FCC
regulations;
         (f)   Annual and other reports made to the town or the FCC;
         (g)   Extension of service; and
         (h)   Other matters of concern.
      (3)   In the event the current franchisee is determined by the Board of
Commissioners to have performed unsatisfactorily, new applicants shall be
sought and evaluated by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners and a franchise
award may be made according to application and award procedures set forth in
this section.
   (D)   Revocation of franchise.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners may terminate the franchise conferred
under this chapter at any time prior to a date of expiration upon a finding
that the franchisee has failed to cure one or more of the following defects:
         (a)   Material breach, whether by act or omission, of any terms or
conditions of this chapter;
         (b)   Material misrepresentation of fact in the application for or
negotiation of the franchise;
         (c)   Insolvency of the franchisee, or inability or unwillingness of
the franchisee to pay its just debts when they accrue, or application of the
franchisee for adjudication as a bankrupt;
         (d)   Failure to provide subscribers or users with adequate service in
the best interest of the public convenience and welfare;
         (e)   Failure to have obtained authorization from all required
governmental agencies and acceptable pole attachment agreements within 12
months after acceptance of the franchise provided the period of 12 months may
be extended by the Board of Commissioners if the franchisee is diligently
pursuing the authorization and the delay is not caused by any fault of the
franchisee or results from strikes, natural disaster or other occurrences over
which the franchisee would have no control; or
         (f)   Failure to have full service available as set forth in
franchisee’s application and in §
114.08(B) of this chapter; provided, the period may be extended by the Board of
Commissioners under the same circumstances set forth in this section.
      (2)   The franchisee shall have 60 days to remedy defects following
written notice by the Mayor to the franchisee of such a defect. If any defect
continues beyond the 60 days (or any extension thereof granted by the Board of
Commissioners) without written proof that corrective action has been taken or
is being actively and expeditiously pursued, the Board of Commissioners shall
call a public hearing on the termination of the franchise. Immediately
following the public hearing, the Board of Commissioners may, by resolution,
declare that the franchise be terminated. At least ten days prior to the Board
of Commissioners’ meeting at which the public hearing will be held, the Mayor
shall cause to be served upon the franchisee a written notice of the public
hearing on the question of termination. The notice shall state the time and
place of the meeting.
      (3)   Should the town revoke the franchise, new applicants shall be
sought and evaluated by the Mayor and Board of Commissioners and a franchise
award may be made according to application and award procedures set forth in
this section.
   (E)   Foreclosure. Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a
substantial part of the system, or upon the termination of any lease covering
all or a substantial part of the system, the franchisee shall notify the Board
of Commissioners of such fact, and the notification shall be treated as a
notification that a transfer in control of the franchise has taken place, and
the provisions of §
114.07(G) of this chapter governing the consent of the Board of Commissioners
to the change in control of the franchise shall apply.
   (F)   Receivership. The Board of Commissioners shall have the right to
cancel this franchise 120 days after the appointment of a receiver, or trustee,
to take over and conduct the business of the company, whether in receivership,
reorganization, bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding, unless such
receivership or trusteeship shall have vacated prior to the expiration of the
120 days, or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after his or her election or appointment, the
receiver or trustee shall have fully complied with all the provisions of this
chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   Such receiver or trustee, within the 120 days, shall have executed
an agreement, duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby the receiver or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and
every provision of this chapter and the certification granted to the company.
   (G)   Transfer of control.
      (1)   No transfer of effective ownership or control of the CATV system
may take place, whether by forced or voluntary sale, lease, mortgage,
assignment, encumbrance or any other form of disposition, without prior notice
to and approval by the Board of Commissioners. The notice shall include full
identifying particulars of the proposed transaction, and the Board of
Commissioners shall act by resolution.
      (2)   The franchisee shall not issue any additional capital stock and
shall not permit the transfer of more than 10% of its presently outstanding
shares without the prior written consent of the Board of Commissioners. No
sale, lease, assignment or transfer shall be effective until the vendee,
lessee, assignee, or transferee has filed with the town its acceptance of this
grant.
      (3)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the Board of
Commissioners will not approve any such transactions before completion of
construction of energized cable passing before each dwelling unit, as specified
in §
114.08(C) and (D) of this chapter.
      (4)   Prior approval of the Board of Commissioners shall be required
where ownership or control of more than 10% of the right of control of or
interest in the franchise is acquired by a person or a group of persons acting
in concert, none of whom already own or control 10% or more of the right of
control or interest, singularly or collectively. Provided, however, that, the
Board of Commissioner’s approval shall not be unreasonably withheld after
proper application is made therefor.
      (5)   “Transfer of effective ownership or control” shall not include:
         (a)   Pledge or hypothecation or mortgage or similar instrument
transferring conditional ownership or all or part of the system’s assets to a
lender, or creditor in the ordinary course of business so long as the lender
does not thereby acquire the right to control the system’s operations; but no
transfer of conditional title can be made absolute or become effective without
prior approval of the Board of Commissioners; or
         (b)   The disposition of facilities or equipment no longer required in
the conduct of business.
      (6)   The franchisee may hypothecate its interest under this chapter and
the franchise agreement and in the CATV system to be constructed pursuant
thereto for the purpose of securing a loan, the entire proceeds of which will
be utilized in construction and operation of its CATV system in the franchise
area.
      (7)   By its acceptance of the franchise, the franchisee specifically
concedes and agrees that any acquisitions or transfers as set forth in this
section without prior approval of the Board of Commissioners as may be
required, shall constitute a violation of the franchise agreement and this
chapter by the franchisee.
   (H)   Continuing of service mandatory. The franchisee shall be required to
provide continuous service to all subscribers in return for payment of the
established fee. If the franchise agreement becomes void whatever reason
including normal expiration, revocation or foreclosure, the franchisee is
required, at the option of the town as a part of this franchise to continue to
operate the system for either a period of six months or until an orderly change
of operation is effected whichever is the earlier. In the event the franchisee
fails to operate the system or allows a lapse in service without prior approval
of the Board of Commissioners, the town or its agent may operate the system
until such time that a new operator is selected. If the town is required to
fulfill this obligation for the franchisee, the franchisee shall reimburse the
town for any costs or damages that are the result of the franchisee’s failure
to perform.
   (I)   Periodic review.
      (1)   Because of the regulatory, technical, financial, marketing and
legal uncertainties associated with cable communications, the franchisee shall
agree to the following review provisions in order to provide for a maximum
degree of flexibility in this franchise and to help achieve a continued advance
and modern system for the town:
         (a)   The town and the franchisee shall hold scheduled review sessions
within 30 days of the fifth and tenth anniversary dates of the effective date
of the franchise.
         (b)   Special review sessions may be held in the town municipal
building at any time during the term of the franchise upon reasonable notice by
either party to the other. A special review session shall be held in the event
any clause or section of this chapter is voided, nullified, deleted or modified
by the authority of any regulatory agency including the FCC, and the franchisee
will comply with the FCC rules within one year from adoption of the new rule.
      (2)   The following topics shall be discussed at every scheduled review
session: service, rate structures, free or discounted services, application of
new technologies, state of the art, system performances, services provided,
programming offered, customer complaints, privacy in human rights, amendments
to this chapter, undergrounding provisions, judicial and FCC rulings and
extension of service. In addition, other topics may be discussed as determined
by the town.
      (3)   At either a scheduled or special review session a public hearing
may be called if and as determined by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 114.07) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.08 FRANCHISE AREA AND EXTENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Franchise territory. The franchise is for the territory or area within
the corporate limits of the town and any new areas annexed during the franchise
term.
   (B)   Service. Within the first year after the effective date of the
franchise, the franchisee agrees to make available basic CATV service to all
residents of the town as set forth in franchisee’s application.
   (C)   Annexed areas. The franchisee agrees to extend and make cable
television service available to every resident in any new annexed area within
12 months of annexation.
   (D)   Service connection. Request for connection requiring an aerial drop
line in excess of 200 feet, the franchisee must extend and make available cable
television service to such residents at a connection charge not to exceed the
normal drop installation charge plus the actual installation costs incurred by
the franchisee for the distance exceeding 200 feet.
(Prior Code, § 114.08) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.09 REGULATION OF RATES.
   (A)   Franchise fee. (See “Payment to the Town”, §
114.10 of this chapter).
   (B)   Limitations on rates. The charges made to subscribers for services of
the franchisee in this chapter shall be fair and reasonable. The franchisee
shall receive no consideration whatsoever from its subscribers other than in
accordance with this section, without approval of the Board of Commissioners.
The franchisee shall not charge rates for basic services and for installations
and disconnections in excess of the rate schedule appearing in the franchisee’s
application unless approved in accordance with division (C) of this section.
   (C)   Adjustment to rates.
      (1)   Initial rates and charges for basic sources and for installation
and disconnection shall be fixed in the franchise application. Thereafter, the
town or the franchisee may request rate adjustments at any time. After a public
hearing affording due notice to the franchisee and other interested persons,
the Board of Commissioners may adjust rates. (Public hearing advertisement to
be once per week in a newspaper of general circulation in the town for two
weeks preceding the hearing.) The criterion to determine whether rates
adjustments shall be permitted are the same as those currently set forth in
G.S. Ch. 162 for rate adjustment hearings related to rate adjustments for
public utilities other than motor carriers and certain water and sewer
utilities. The franchisee may appeal the decision of the Board to the courts as
permitted by law.
      (2)   However, the franchisee may increase or decrease its rates at any
time, without prior Board approval; provided that, no increase has been made in
the preceding six months and provided that the annualized rate of increase
within a given 12-month period shall not exceed the average annual rate of
increase over the preceding 12 months in the Consumer Price Index for all Urban
Consumers & U.S. City Average Other Utilities and Public Services (1967-100) as
Published by the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(In the event that at any time the United States Department of Labor begins
publishing a consumer price index on the annual cost adjustments in cable
television costs in particular, then that index and its base year shall be used
in lieu of the index for other utilities and public services.) The franchisee
shall notify the town in writing at least 90 days in advance of the effective
date of any proposed rate increase within the limits set forth above. The town
may then challenge the increase and schedule meetings, hearings, request
additional information, or take whatever action it deems appropriate. If no
such action is taken within 60 days of receipt of the original written notice
by the town, then the increase will automatically take effect.
      (3)   Except as set forth in division (C)(2) of this section, rates shall
not be changed without Board approval, except that nothing in this provision
shall prohibit the reduction or waiving of charges in conjunction with
promotional campaign for the purpose of attracting subscribers.
   (D)   Refunds to subscribers and users.
      (1)   If any subscriber terminates any monthly service during the first
six months of the service because of failure of a franchisee to render the
service offered, the franchisee shall refund to such subscriber an amount equal
to all charges paid by the subscriber during the period in which no service was
received.
      (2)   If any subscriber terminates for any reason any monthly service
prior to the end of a prepaid period, a pro rata portion of any prepaid
subscriber service fee shall be refunded to the subscriber by the franchisee
using the number of months as the basis.
   (E)   Advance charges and deposits. A franchisee may require subscribers to
pay the installation charge in advance and to pay for each month of basic
service in advance at the beginning of each month. No other advance payment or
deposit of any kind shall be required by a franchisee for basic subscriber
service. Other than for a converter, nothing in this provision shall be
construed to prohibit charges for or waiver for charges for initial
installation or reconnection.
   (F)   Installation and reconnection. Except as otherwise provided elsewhere
in this chapter, a franchisee may make a charge to subscribers for the
installation of service outlets and for the reconnection of service outlets.
The rates for such connection or reconnection shall be as authorized in the
rate schedule.
   (G)   Other governmental regulation of rates. If in the future, the state or
the United States government or any regulatory agency thereof regulates the
rates of the franchisee for the service provided for in the franchise, this
section shall be of no effect during such regulation to the extent of any
conflict therewith.
   (H)   Public service installation. The franchisee shall without charge for
installation, maintenance or service make single installations of its standard
CATV service facilities to those public buildings operated by town and county
when the building is located on the franchisee’s system when the system is
constructed consistent with the requirements of this chapter. Such
installations shall be made at such reasonable locations as shall be requested
by the Mayor. Any charge for relocation of such installation shall, however, be
charged at the actual cost. Additional installations at the same location may
be made at the actual cost. No monthly service charges shall be made for
distribution of the franchisee’s basic service, including access channels
within the publicly-owned buildings.
   (I)   Charges for public access. Charges to users of the franchisee’s
production facilities for public access programming shall not exceed actual
costs incurred. The charges shall be publicly posted and made available at no
cost to anyone upon request. Charges shall be clearly and completely stated in
the operating rules for public access programming. The charges may be amended
only upon approval by the Board of Commissioners. The franchisee shall furnish
standard playback facilities and labor at actual cost incurred for the public
access channel.
(Prior Code, § 114.09) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.10 PAYMENT TO THE TOWN.
   As compensation for the authorization granted in this chapter and in
consideration for permission to use the easements which the town controls for
the construction, operation, and maintenance of a CATV system within the town,
the franchisee shall pay to the town quarterly on or before July 1, October 1,
January 1 and April 1 for the preceding quarter an amount equal to 3% of the
gross revenues. This payment shall be in addition to any other fees or payments
made to the town by the franchisee, such as pole rental, business licenses and
other fees not based on gross revenues. Payment shall be accompanied by a
certified annual report showing the basis for the computation and such other
relevant facts as may be required by the town. No acceptance of any payment
shall be construed as an accord that the amount paid is, in fact, the correct
amount, nor shall such acceptance of payment be construed as a release of any
claim the town may have for further or additional sums payable under the
provisions of this chapter. All amounts paid shall be subject to recomputation
by the town within 60 days of the receipt of the franchise annual report. This
time limitation shall not apply should the franchisee provide false or
erroneous information. In the event that recomputation results in additional
revenue to be paid to the town, such amount shall be subject to an interest
charge at the highest rate permitted by law. Nothing in this provision shall
limit the franchisee’s liability to pay other local taxes and charges.
(Prior Code, § 114.10) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.11 INSURANCE, PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Remedies for breach and contravention of franchise. A breach by the
franchisee of the franchise agreement, in addition to constituting a breach of
contract, shall constitute a violation of this chapter. The cost of any
litigation incurred by the town to enforce this chapter or the franchise
granted pursuant hereto, or the franchise agreement or in relation thereto, or
in relation to the cancellation or termination of a franchise, shall be
reimbursed to the town by the franchisee. The costs shall include filing fees,
costs of depositions, discovery and expert witnesses, all other expenses of
suit and a reasonable attorney’s fee. Violation of material provisions of this
chapter shall subject the franchisee to the following penalties:
      (1)   Failure of the franchisee to meet performance standards, as
determined by the Mayor, to which it has agreed, may result in a rebate of
rates or charges to subscribers affected; provided that, the Mayor shall
provide ten days written notice of the failure to the franchisee. Any rebate
may be charged to the performance bond;
      (2)   For failure to provide data and reports as requested by the Mayor
or the Board of Commissioners and as required by this chapter, the penalty
shall be $50 per day for each day not delivered. This penalty may be chargeable
to the performance bond;
      (3)   For failure to complete construction and installation of the cable
system, unless the Board of Commissioners approves the delay because of reasons
beyond the control of the franchisee, the franchise term may be reduced one
year for each three months’ delay. The Mayor shall notify the franchisee during
the first month of the three-month period that the system has failed to meet
performance standards;
      (4)   For any other material violation of the ordinance in such amounts
per day as the Board may reasonably determine; and
      (5)   The franchisee may appeal any penalty which it considers
unreasonable to the Board of Commissioners and then into the state judicial
system as permitted by state law.
   (B)   Liability and indemnification of the town. The franchisee shall
indemnify and hold harmless the town at all times during the term of the
franchise granted hereby and specifically agrees that it will pay all damages
and penalties which the town may legally be required to pay as a result of
granting the franchise. Such damages and penalties shall include, but not be
limited to, damages arising out of copyright infringements, and other damages
arising out of the installation, operation or maintenance of the CATV system
authorized herein, whether or not any act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed or prohibited by the franchisee. In case suit shall be
filed against the town either independently or jointly with the franchisee to
recover for any claim or damages, the franchisee, upon notice of it by the
town, shall defend the town against the action and, in the event of a final
judgment being obtained against the town, either independently or jointly with
the franchisee solely by reason of the acts of the franchisee, the franchisee
will pay the judgment and all costs and hold the town harmless therefrom.
   (C)   Insurance.
      (1)   The franchisee shall be required to maintain insurance in such
forms and in such companies as shall be approved by the town with the town
named as the co-insured, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld, to
protect the town and the franchisee from and against any and all claims, injury
or damage to persons or property, both real and personal, caused by the
construction, erection, operation or maintenance of any aspect of the system.
The amount of such insurance shall not be less than the following:
         (a)   General liability insurance:
            1.   Bodily injury per person, $500,000;
            2.   Bodily injury per occurrence, $1,000,000; and
            3.   Property damage per occurrence, $500,000.
         (b)   Automobile insurance:
            1.   Bodily injury per person, $100,000;
            2.   Bodily injury per occurrence, $300,000; and
            3.   Property damage per occurrence, $300,000.
      (2)   The town may require the foregoing insurance coverage to be changed
from time to time during the term of the franchise.
      (3)   Workers’ compensation insurance shall also be provided as required
by the laws of the state, as amended.
      (4)   All insurance coverage shall provide a 30-day notice to the Mayor,
c/o of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, in the event of material alteration or
cancellation of any coverage afforded in the policies prior to the date the
material alteration or cancellation shall become effective.
      (5)   A certificate of coverage for all policies required in this section
shall be furnished to and filed with the Mayor at Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office, prior to the commencement of operations or expiration of prior
policies, as the case may be.
   (D)   Non-waiver. Neither the provisions of this section, nor any bonds
accepted by the town pursuant hereto, nor any damage recovered by the town
hereunder, shall be construed to excuse unfaithful performance by the
franchisee or limit the liability of the franchisee under this chapter or the
franchise for damages, either to the full amount of the bond, or otherwise.
   (E)   Faithful performance bond. The franchisee shall, concurrently with its
acceptance of this franchise, file with the Mayor at Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office and at all times thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the
term of this franchise or any renewal thereof, at the franchisee’s sole
expense, a corporate surety bond with a responsible company licensed to do
business in the state and approved by the town, in the amount of 5% of the
anticipated cost of construction of the proposed CATV system for the town,
renewable annually, and conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
franchisee, and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and upon the
further condition that in the event the franchisee shall fail to comply with
any one or more of the provisions of the franchise, there shall be recoverable
jointly and severally from the principal and surety of such bond any damages or
loss suffered by the town as a result thereof, including the full amount of any
compensation, indemnification, or cost of removal or abandonment or any
property of the franchisee as prescribed hereby, plus a reasonable allowance
for attorneys’ fees and costs, up to the full amount of the bond, the condition
to be a continuing obligation for the duration of the franchise and any renewal
thereof and thereafter until the franchisee has liquidated all of its
obligations with the town that may have arisen from the acceptance of this
franchise or renewal by the franchisee or from its exercise of any privileges
or rights herein granted. The bond shall provide that at least 30 days prior
written notice of intention not to renew, cancellation, or material change be
given to the town by filing same with the Mayor at Town Clerk-Treasurer’s
office. The required performance bond shall be reduced to $2,000 once the
franchisee has connected sufficient energized cable to serve the areas required
to be served by §
114.08(B) of this chapter. Failure to keep a performance bond in force at all
times as herein provided shall constitute an event of default.
   (F)   Deposit in lieu of bond. In lieu of the performance bond by a surety
company as provided in this chapter, the franchisee may file and deposit with
the town a performance bond without a corporate surety but secured by a
certificate of deposit in some bank or savings and loan association in the
state, in the sum of the performance bond required by §
114.11(E) of this chapter conditioned in the same manner as the performance
bond of a surety company hereinbefore described. The income from such deposit
shall be payable to the franchisee. As an alternative, the franchisee may
provide such other security as may be approved by the Board of Commissioners,
but absent such approval it shall provide a bond or deposit in lieu thereof as
above provided.
(Prior Code, § 114.11) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.12 SYSTEM DESIGN PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Emergency override. The cable system shall include an “emergency
alert” capability which will permit the Mayor or his or her designee to
override, by remote control, the video and/or audio of all channels
simultaneously programming in the case of public emergencies. The franchisee
shall designate a channel which will be used for emergency broadcasts.
   (B)   Standby power. The franchisee shall maintain equipment capable of
providing standby powering for headend. The equipment shall be constructed so
as to notify automatically the cable office when it is in operation and to
revert automatically to the standby mode when the AC power returns.
   (C)   System standards. The franchisee shall install and maintain a cable
system which shall be in accordance with the highest and best accepted
standards of the industry to the end that subscribers shall
receive the best possible service. In addition, the franchisee shall comply
with all requirements of all duly constituted regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over cable television or the operator of the cable system.
   (D)   State of the art. The franchisee shall upgrade its facilities,
equipment and service so that its system is as advanced as the current state of
production technology will allow. The franchisee shall install additional
channel capacity as required to keep channel capacity in excess of demand
therefor by users. At all times, the cable system shall be no less advanced
than any other system of comparable size and age excepting only systems which
are experimental, pilot or demonstration. The Board of Commissioners shall
order the franchisee to comply with this section in case of specific
violations, which it may investigate upon complaint or on its own motion.
   (E)   System carriage.
      (1)   At all times, the signal carriage and channel utilization shall
conform to the regulations of the FCC, state and other regulatory agencies
which are not in conflict therewith. The operator shall provide at least one
access channel for each of the following activities:
         (a)   Public access;
         (b)   Educational access; and
         (c)   Government access.
      (2)   As each of these channels is defined under FCC regulations, such
channels shall not be required to remain idle if not in use by the public, but
rather can be used by the franchisee to produce revenue. Except in cases of
emergency, governmental units must give ten days’ notice of intent to use.
(Prior Code, § 114.12) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.13 CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS; USE OF STREETS AND POLE ATTACHMENTS.
   (A)   Construction schedule. The franchisee shall be diligent in commencing
construction after the effective date of the franchise.
   (B)   Changes required by public improvement. A franchisee shall, at its
expense, protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate in the same street
or other public place to remove from the road or other public place, any
property of the franchisee when required by the town or state by reason of
traffic conditions, public safety, road vacation, road construction, change or
establishment of road grade, installation of sewers, drains and water pipes,
power lines or any other type of structure or improvement by public agencies.
   (C)   Pole use. The franchisee is obligated to obtain pole space and other
facilities from the town, any utility companies, and other lawful users at its
own expenses and costs and copies of all pole use agreements in whatever form
are to be filed with the Mayor at Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office. In the event
of termination for failure to construct the CATV system or expiration of the
franchise, the franchisee is to relinquish all rights to pole use immediately
and enter into whatever agreements and execute whatever documents may be
necessary to accomplish such relinquishment. In the event of termination of the
franchise once the system is operating, the franchisee is to relinquish all
rights to pole use after a reasonable time has elapsed for the franchisee to
attempt to sell the system; however, during such time the franchisee shall
diligently be attempting to find a buyer. Such reasonable time, unless
otherwise agreed to by the town, shall be nine months. This provision may be
enforced by appropriate equitable remedy from a court of competent jurisdiction
as set forth in G.S. § 153A-123. Such equitable relief includes, but is not
limited to, injunctions and orders of abatement and upon refusal to comply, the
franchisee may be cited for contempt.
   (D)   Use of existing poles or conduits. Nothing in this chapter, or any
franchise granted hereunder, shall authorize the franchisee to erect and
maintain in the town new poles where existing poles are servicing the area. The
franchisee shall obtain permission from the town before erecting any new poles
or underground conduit where none exists at the time the franchisee seeks to
install his or her network.
   (E)   Facilities not to be hazardous or interfere. All wires, conduits,
cable and other property and facilities of the franchisee shall be so located,
constructed, installed and maintained as not to endanger or unnecessarily
interfere with the usual and customary trade, traffic and travel upon the roads
and public places of the town. The franchisee shall keep and maintain all of
its property in good condition, order and repair. The franchisee shall keep
accurate maps and records of all its facilities and furnish copies of such maps
and records as requested by the town in the section dealing with reports. A
franchisee shall not place poles or other equipment where they will interfere
with the rights or reasonable convenience of adjoining property owners, or with
any gas, electric or telephone fixtures, or with any water hydrants or mains.
   (F)   Methods of installation. All wires, cables, amplifiers and other
property shall be constructed and installed in an orderly and workmanlike
manner consistent with all applicable requirements of the National Electric
Code, state and local electric codes, and all pole attachment agreements. All
cables and wires shall be installed parallel with existing telephone and
electric wires whenever possible. Multiple cable configurations shall be
arranged in parallel and bundled, with due respect for engineering and safety
considerations. All installations shall be underground in these areas of the
town where electric service is underground at the time of installation. In
areas where electric utility facilities are aboveground at the time of
installation, the franchisee may install its service aboveground with the
understanding that at such time as those facilities are required to be placed
underground by the town, the franchisee shall likewise place its services
underground without additional cost to the subscribers or the town. It shall be
the policy of the town that underground installation, even when not required,
is preferable to the placement of additional poles.
   (G)   Subscriber’s underground installation option. Should any subscriber
wish to have underground service in any area normally provided service via
overhead (aerial) construction, the subscriber requesting such underground
service shall pay all costs attendant to underground construction plus 10% less
the normal costs of such equivalent overhead installation, if such overhead
service does not exist to the subscribers’ residence.
   (H)   Prohibition of signal distribution by others. No equipment, cable or
other apparatus shall be connected between the franchisee’s CATV system and the
subscriber’s receiver except as furnished and installed by the franchisee.
   (I)   Requests for removal or change. The franchisee shall, on the request
of any person holding a building moving permit, temporarily raise or lower its
wires to permit the moving of the building. The expense of such temporary
removal, raising or lowering of wires shall be paid by the person requesting
the same, and the franchisee shall have the authority to require such payment
in advance. The franchisee shall be given not less than five days’ advance
notice of any move contemplated to arrange for temporary wire changes.
   (J)   Construction standards; clearance aboveground. The franchisee’s
distribution system in the public streets shall comply with all applicable
laws, regulations and ordinances, and all its wires and cables suspended from
poles in the streets shall comply with the minimum clearances aboveground
required for telephone lines, cables, wires and conduits.
   (K)   Maintenance and alteration of the system after construction. The Board
of Commissioners may require any part or all of the system to be improved or
upgraded (including, without limitation, the increasing of channel capacity,
the furnishing of improved converters, and the institution of two-way
transmissions), if a reasonable need is found therefor after a public hearing
has been called, for that purpose, and may order such improvement or upgrading
of the system, to be affected by the franchisee within a reasonable time
thereafter; provided that, no change shall compromise the franchisee’s ability
to perform satisfactorily its obligations or rights under this chapter or the
franchise agreement.
(Prior Code, § 114.13) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.14 OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE PROVISION.
   (A)   Consumer complaint response. The franchisee shall maintain an office
in the town or in the county and accessible to the town that is open during all
business hours, has a publicly listed telephone number (without long-distance
charge for town customers), and is so operated that complaints and requests for
repairs or adjustments may be received on a 24-hour basis. The franchisee shall
have a resident manager and engineer in the town (or in the county and
accessible to the town) and shall have office, marketing, technical and studio
staffs professionally trained in the cable communications industry.
   (B)   Interruption of service to subscribers. Whenever it is necessary to
interrupt service to subscribers for the purpose of maintenance, alteration, or
repair, the franchisee shall make every effort to do so at a time that will
cause the least amount of subscriber inconvenience and, unless the interruption
is unforeseen and immediately necessary, the franchisee shall give reasonable
advance notice thereof to the affected subscribers.
   (C)   Service force required. The franchisee shall provide a service force
seven days a week for all complaints and requests for adjustments. Such force
shall be capable of responding to subscriber complaints within 24 hours of
receipt of the complaint. Total loss of service attributable to the cable
system shall be cleared within 24 hours, except to the extent that restoration
of service is prevented by strikes, fires, injunction or other cause beyond the
franchisee’s control.
   (D)   Complaint log. The franchisee shall keep an accurate log listing
chronologically all complaints and trouble calls received from its subscribers.
This log shall include appropriate identification of the subscriber and service
affected, the time, date and nature of the report, the action taken to clear
the trouble or satisfy the complaint, and the date and time of final
disposition. This log shall be kept on file for five years and shall be
available for inspection by the Mayor or his or her designate upon request at
any time within this period. The franchisee shall submit to the town each month
a summary of the number and types of complaints received.
   (E)   Complaints regarding service deficiencies. For recurrent complaints
regarding service deficiencies other than total or partial loss of service,
such as “ghosting”, weak audio signal, distortion, and the like, the Mayor may
require the franchisee to investigate and report to him or her the causes and
cures thereof, and the Mayor may also conduct his or her own investigation.
Thereafter, the Mayor may order specified remedial action to be taken within
reasonably feasible time limits. If such action is not taken, or is
ineffective, or if within 30 days the franchisee files with the Board of
Commissioners a notice of objection to the order, the Board of Commissioners
may conduct a hearing and may, if the evidence warrants a finding of fault on
the part of the franchisee, take appropriate action pursuant to the terms of
this chapter.
   (F)   Complaint review procedures. A franchisee shall ensure that all
subscribers, programmers and members of the general public have recourse to a
satisfactory hearing of any complaint. The town shall work closely with a
franchisee and members of the public to establish procedures for handling and
settling complaints. A franchisee shall present to the Board of Commissioners
for its approval, no later than six months after the acceptance of the
franchise, a set of rules, regulations and procedures reasonably designed for
the prompt handling and settling of complaints.
   (G)   Sale and service of receivers prohibited. The franchisee shall not
engage in the sale, service, repair, rental or leasing of television receivers,
radio receivers, parts of accessories, and shall not require or attempt to
influence its subscribers to deal with any particular person in regard thereto.
Further, the franchisee shall not require the removal nor offer to remove any
existing antenna as a condition of providing cable service.
   (H)   Use of production equipment. A user of cablecast facilities may not be
required to use the franchisee’s production equipment but must be allowed to
use any other production equipment that is compatible with the franchisee’s
facilities. The franchisee is encouraged to use standard quality equipment.
   (I)   Open books and records.
      (1)   The franchisee shall keep complete and accurate books of accounts
and records of its business under and in connection with its franchise.
      (2)   All such books and records shall be maintained at the franchisee’s
business office within the town or the county and accessible to the town.
      (3)   The town shall have access to all books and records at any time
during reasonable business hours, and may examine officers and employees
informally or under oath in respect thereto.
      (4)   Access shall also be given to the town, on request, to all
supplementary or underlying financial and engineering records and reports.
   (J)   Current reports. The following reports must be filed with the Mayor at
Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office when the specified event occurs:
      (1)   Any instrument of change in or transfer of an interest in the
franchisee or its assets or franchise;
      (2)   Any change in or addition to the directors or officers of the
franchisee;
      (3)   Any contract or transaction with an affiliated company, respecting
the cable system, together with full particulars and a copy of any written
agreement or a written summary of any verbal agreement; and
      (4)   Any changes in the franchisee’s rules and regulations governing the
conduct of its business.
   (K)   Permits and authorizations. The franchisee shall diligently apply for
all necessary permits, agreements, authorizations and contracts required in the
conduct of its business and shall diligently pursue the acquisition thereof,
including necessary pole attachment contracts and necessary authorizations from
the Federal Aviation Administration to construct the receiving antenna towers
as may be required and any necessary authorization or waivers from the FCC, and
when any permit is obtained, a copy thereof shall be promptly filed by the
franchisee with the Mayor at Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
   (L)   Filings and communications with regulatory agencies. Copies of all
communications, including petitions, applications, pleadings and reports, as
well as official correspondence sent to or received from the Federal
Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency having jurisdiction in respect
to any matters affecting CATV operations authorized pursuant to this franchise,
shall also be submitted simultaneously to the Mayor at the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s office.
   (M)   Quarterly reports. The franchisee shall file with the Mayor at the
Town Clerk-Treasurer’s office on a quarterly basis construction reports until
the system is completed.
   (N)   Annual reports. If written request is made by the Mayor, the following
reports shall be filed by the franchisee with the Mayor (at the Town Clerk-
Treasurer’s office) annually, no later than February 1, except where otherwise
provided:
      (1)   A summary of complaints received during the preceding calendar year
showing nature of the complaint, area of the town, disposition and complaints
subsequent to disposition;
      (2)   A total facilities report together with a current system map
showing the location and total miles of plant and equipment installed and/or
operating at the close of the preceding calendar year;
      (3)   A map of system;
      (4)   One copy of each type of agreement currently offered to subscribers
and to users;
      (5)   (a)   A complete set of current rules and regulations of the
operator incorporating the latest amendments filed with the town; and
         (b)   In addition, the franchisee shall file a complete financial
audit statement including a statement of income to be certified by a public
accountant to be submitted no later than 90 days after the end of the preceding
fiscal year of the franchisee and the reports on other topics as the Board of
Commissioners may direct.
      (6)   A complete financial audit statement including a statement of
income to be certified by a public accountant to be submitted no later than 90
days after the end of the preceding fiscal year of the franchisee.
      (7)   Reports on other topics as the Board of Commissioners may direct.
   (O)   General reports. A franchisee shall prepare and furnish to the town,
at the times and in the form prescribed by the Mayor or Board of Commissioners,
such reports with respect to its operation, affairs, transactions or property
as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to the performance of any of the
functions of the town in connection with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.14) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.15 RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE TOWN.
   (A)   Right to inspect records. The town shall have the right to inspect all
books and records and examine officers and employees as specified in §
114.14 of this chapter.
   (B)   Right to inspect construction. The town reserves the right, but shall
not have the duty to inspect plans and construction of any facility to be used
in connection with the cable system irrespective of its location.
   (C)   Right of intervention. The franchisee shall not oppose intervention by
the town in any suit or proceeding to which the franchisee is a party.
   (D)   Right to require removal of property. The town reserves the right not
inconsistent with any other provision of this chapter to require the franchisee
to remove any of its property from publicly-owned property at the franchisee’s
own expense.
(Prior Code, § 114.15) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.16 FRANCHISEE’S RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   The franchisee shall have the right to appeal any provision, requirement or
ruling of the Mayor to the Board of Commissioners and to the courts as
permitted by state law.
(Prior Code, § 114.16) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.17 RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE FRANCHISEE.
   (A)   Sale of subscriber lists prohibited. The franchisee shall be
prohibited from using or allowing the use of subscriber lists for any purpose
unconnected with the provision of service over the system.
   (B)   Monitoring. No monitoring of any terminal connected to the system
shall take place without specific written authorization by the user of the
terminal in question on each occasion. Provided, however, the franchisee may
provide for system-wide, non-individually addressed “sweeps”, or the
franchisee’s acquisition of information for purposes of verifying system
integrity, controlling return path transmissions, billing for pay services.
   (C)   Cable tapping. It shall be unlawful to tape or monitor a system line
without authorization from the parties whose communication might be overheard.
Provided, however, the franchisee may provide for system-wide, non-individually
addressed “sweeps”, or the franchisee’s acquisition of information for purposes
of verifying system integrity, controlling return path transmissions, or
billing for pay services.
   (D)   Discriminatory or preferential practices prohibited. The franchisee
shall not, in its rates or charges, or in making available the services or
facilities of its system, or in its rules or regulations, or in any other
respect, make or grant preferences or advantages to any subscriber or potential
subscriber to the system, or to any user or potential user of the system, and
shall not subject any such persons to any prejudice or disadvantage. This
provision shall not be deemed to prohibit promotional campaigns to stimulate
subscriptions to the system or other legitimate uses thereof; nor shall it be
deemed to prohibit the establishment of a graduated scale of charges, and
classified rate schedules to which any customer coming within such
classification shall be entitled.
   (E)   Open access. The entire system of the franchisee shall be operated in
a manner consistent with the principle of fairness and equal accessibility of
its facilities, equipment, channels, studios, and other services to all
citizens, businesses, public agencies, or other entities having a legitimate
use for the system and no one shall be arbitrarily excluded from its use.
Allocation of use of the facilities shall be made according to the rules or
decisions of regulatory agencies affecting the same, and where such rules or
decisions are not effective to resolve a dispute between conflicting users or
potential users, the matter shall be submitted for resolution to the Mayor,
subject to appeal to the Board of Commissioners.
   (F)   Equal opportunity employment and affirmative action.
      (1)   In the carrying out of the construction, maintenance and operation
of the CATV system, the franchisee shall not discriminate against any employee
or applicant for employment because of race, creed, color, marital status, age,
sex, HIV-positive status or national origin.
      (2)   The franchisee shall post in conspicuous places, available to
employees and applicants for employment, notices setting forth the provisions
of this non-discrimination clause.
      (3)   The franchisee shall in all solicitations or advertisements for
employees placed by or on behalf of the franchisee, state that all qualified
applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race,
creed, color, sex, marital status, age, HIV-positive status or national origin.
   (G)   Individual right of appeal. Any affected individual, partnership or
corporation shall have the right to appeal any provisions requirement or ruling
of the Mayor to the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 114.17) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.18 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with laws. The franchisee agrees to comply fully with all
local ordinances, state and federal laws, and with all rules issued by all
regulatory agencies now or hereafter in existence.
   (B)   Severability. If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of the
chapter is held invalid or unconstitutional, such invalidity or
unconstitutionality shall not affect, the validity of the remainder of this
chapter, and any portions in conflict are hereby repealed. Provided, however,
that in the event that the FCC declares any section invalid, then such section
or sections will be renegotiated by the town and the franchisee.
   (C)   Captions. The captions to sections are inserted solely for information
and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this chapter.
   (D)   No recourse against the town. The franchisee shall have no recourse
whatsoever against the town or its officers, boards, commissions, agents, or
employees for any loss, cost, expense or damage arising out of any provision or
requirement of this franchise or because of its enforcement.
   (E)   Non-enforcement. The franchisee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply promptly with any of the provisions of the franchise by
any failure of the town to enforce prompt compliance.
(Prior Code, § 114.18) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.19 REGULATORY ENTITY.
   (A)   Regulation. The Board of Commissioners reserves the option to
designate a regulatory commission to promote and develop access to the CATV
system. Membership, term and functions of that commission shall be established
by resolution when the Board of Commissioners chooses to exercise the option.
In the absence of a regulatory commission, the Board of Commissioners requires
the Mayor’s performance of the following functions:
      (1)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on application for franchises,
unless the Board of Commissioners shall otherwise provide for the handling of
this function;
      (2)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on matters which might constitute
grounds for revocation of the franchise in accordance with this chapter;
      (3)   Resolve disagreements among the franchisees, subscribers and public
and private users of the system; such decisions of the Mayor shall be
appealable to the Board of Commissioners;
      (4)   Advise the Board of Commissioners on the regulation of rates in
accordance with this chapter. The advisory function shall be in the form of a
written report to the Board of Commissioners, which shall include
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners and the facts upon which the
recommendations are based;
      (5)   Coordinate the franchisee and town activities for the best use of
public facilities and channels of the system;
      (6)   Advise the Board of Commissioners regarding general policy relating
to the services provided to subscribers and the operation and use of public
channels, with a view to maximizing the diversity of programs and services to
subscribers. The use of public channels shall be allocated on a first come,
first served basis, subject to limitations on monopolization of system time or
prime time;
      (7)   Require an audit of all franchisee records required by this chapter
and, in his or her discretion, require the preparation and filing of
information additional to that required herein;
      (8)   Make an annual report to the Board of Commissioners, including: an
account of franchise fees received and distributed, the total number of hours
of utilization of public channels, and hourly subtotals for various programming
categories, and a review of any plans submitted during the year by franchisee
(s) for development of new services;
      (9)   Conduct evaluations of the system at least every five years with
the franchisee, and pursuant thereto, make recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners for amendments to this chapter of the franchise agreement; and
      (10)   The town reserves the right to amend this chapter from time to
time as it shall deem to be in the public interest.
   (B)   Miscellaneous; Town Manager. In the event, the Town Board shall employ
a Town Manager, the Town Manager shall, unless otherwise provided by Board
resolution, assume and discharge the duties of the Mayor as provided in this
chapter and to that end upon the employment of a Town Manager by the Board of
Commissioners, the word “Mayor” herein shall be construed to mean the “Town
Manager” as the chief administrative officer of the town, as defined in §
114.03(F) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 114.19) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
§ 114.20 FRANCHISEE APPLICATION.
   The Board of Commissioners may, by advertisement or any other means, solicit
and call for applications for CATV system franchises, and may determine and fix
any date upon or after which the same shall be received by the town, or the
date before which the same must be received, or the date after which the same
shall not be received, and may make any other determinations and specify any
other times, terms, conditions or limitations respecting the soliciting,
calling for, making and receiving of such applications.
(Prior Code, § 114.20) (Ord. passed 11-12-1981)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Firearms regulated
   
130.02   Fire bombs prohibited
   
130.03   Posting of bills
   
130.04   Drinking in public
   
130.05   Public parks and recreational facilities; sex offenders prohibited
Obstructing Public Ways
   
130.20   Assembly on sidewalk
   
130.21   Display of goods prohibited
   
130.22   Placing objects on street and sidewalks
   
130.23   Construction near sidewalk
   
130.24   Sheds and awnings
Maintenance of Public Spaces
   
130.40   Littering prohibited
   
130.41   Privately-owned spaces used by the public
Posting of Signs on Municipal Property Regarding Carrying Concealed Weapons
   
130.50   Purpose and authority
   
130.51   Posting of signs required
   
130.52   Location of signs
Cross-reference:
   Solid waste management, see
Ch. 50
   Additional street and sidewalk regulations, see
Ch. 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 FIREARMS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any gun, pistol or other
firearm within the corporate limits, except a peace officer in the performance
of his or her duty.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 FIRE BOMBS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREBOMB. Any type of object designed or constructed so that upon being
propelled it will explode or ignite its area of impact.
      MOLOTOV COCKTAIL. Any breakable container or any container which is
designed in such a manner that upon being propelled it will at impact empty its
contents, which is filled with an inflammable fluid or substance and which is
fitted with a fuse or wick.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to manufacture,
possess, transport or use any Molotov Cocktail or other firebomb.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person or group of persons to possess
all the items or materials needed to manufacture Molotov cocktails or other
firebombs, other than on his, her or their premises. The provisions of this
section shall be cumulative and in addition to any other ordinance or general
statute of the state on this subject.
   (C)   Enforcement. The Mayor of the town, and in his or her absence, the
Mayor Pro Tempore and in the absence of both officials, the Chief of Police of
the town, shall be and they are hereby authorized to enforce this section for
such periods of time as they shall deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 POSTING OF BILLS.
   (A)   On public property. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to post, nail, stick, or otherwise affix bills, posters,
advertisements, notices or any other printed or graphic matter upon public
property in the town. This section shall not apply to notices, signs or
advertisements required to be posted by law, signs or plates on residential
premises giving the name or address of the occupant, mail boxes or newspaper
tubes, municipal, county, state and federal traffic signs, historical markers,
monuments or signs erected by public authority, temporary displays as a part of
customary holiday decorations and signs denoting the location of underground
utilities.
   (B)   Exception for elections.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) of this section, it
shall be lawful to post or affix printed or graphic materials upon public
property in the town for up to 60 days preceding a national, state or local
election or referendum to be held in the town, when the materials relate to the
candidate or candidates seeking election or the political issues being voted
upon; provided, however, that, the Chief of Police may require the giving of a
bond by those posting the election-related materials, the amount of the bond to
be commensurate with the cost of removing the election materials so posted.
      (2)   If the election-related materials are not removed within 15 days
following the scheduled election, the bond may be retained by the town to
defray the costs of removing the election-related posters and materials.
   (C)   Exception for temporary carnivals or fairs.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the above provisions, it shall be lawful to affix
temporary banners or signs advertising the place and date of fairs, carnivals,
horse shows and similar events to be observed within the town for a period not
to exceed 30 days, and after the giving of a bond, which the Chief of Police
may set, the amount of the bond to be commensurate with the cost of removing
the banners or signs.
      (2)   If the signs or banners are not removed within the 30-day period,
the bond may be retained by the town to defray the costs of removing the
banners or signs.
   (D)   On private property. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to nail, stick or otherwise affix bills, posters, advertisements,
notices or other printed or graphic matter upon private property within the
town without the consent of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. passed 9-14-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   No person shall consume, serve, or drink wine, beer, whiskey, or alcoholic
beverages of any kind on the public streets, boulevards, alleys, or in public
buildings.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 PUBLIC PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES; SEX OFFENDERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC PARK. Any publicly owned or maintained land, which is designated
by the town as a park or recreational facility.
      REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual who is registered by any state or
federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including but not limited to the sex
offender registry established pursuant to G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 27A.
   (B)   Prohibited. That the following prohibition shall apply: It shall
constitute a general offense against this section for any person registered
with the State of North Carolina or any other state or federal agency as a sex
offender to knowingly enter into or on any public park which is owned, operated
or maintained by the town.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person found in violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $500 and 30 days in jail for each offense.
Each entrance into a public park, regardless of the time period involved, shall
constitute a separate offense of this section.
(Ord. passed 5-7-2009)
OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS
§ 130.20 ASSEMBLY ON SIDEWALK.
   All persons are forbidden from assembling or collecting and standing so as
to obstruct any sidewalk or street, and all persons so collecting and standing
shall disperse and move upon the demand of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 130.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.21 DISPLAY OF GOODS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place for display or sale any goods, wares or merchandise of
any kind upon any of the sidewalks of the town, which shall extend out on the
sidewalks.
(Prior Code, § 130.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22 PLACING OBJECTS ON STREET AND SIDEWALKS.
   No brick, stone or wood or other substances obstructing the free passage of
persons and vehicles shall be placed or suffered to lie in any of the alley
ways, streets or other routes of the town, nor shall any person place on or in
any of the streets, sidewalks or alley ways of the town any boxes, crates,
casks or barrels of any description, or any other obstruction of any kind;
provided that, any person erecting a building may, with permission, place
building material for immediate use on the streets in a way as not to interfere
with the usual traffic.
(Prior Code, § 130.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALK.
   Before building or remodeling at any place where the same is in close
proximity to the sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the
sidewalk unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
(Prior Code, § 130.23) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.24 SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   No person shall erect or repair over any sidewalk or street any wooden shed
or awning or any wooden shed for the support of any awning or erect upon any
street or sidewalk any post for the support of any awning. If any person shall
violate this section, then each day that the above forbidden structure shall
remain after notice shall constitute a separate violation; provided that, this
shall not be construed to prevent the erection over the sidewalk of cloth or
metal awnings supported upon metallic frames firmly suspended from the
building, and at least seven feet above the level of the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 130.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC SPACES
§ 130.40 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
organization or private corporation to throw or deposit or to allow to be
thrown or deposited upon any street or sidewalk or upon any private property,
except with written permission of the owner or occupant of the property, any
trash, refuse, garbage, building material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper
or any type of litter.
   (B)   From vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a
passenger in a vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other
public place within the town or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 130.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Statutory misdemeanor and felony littering offenses, see G.S. § 14-399
§ 130.41 PRIVATELY-OWNED SPACES USED BY THE PUBLIC.
   (A)   Maintenance required by owner or occupant. Every owner, lessee,
tenant, occupant or person in charge of any commercial establishment or
premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas for the use of the public,
either for parking or as access area, and incident to the carrying on of the
principal business of any commercial establishment or premises and which
parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any public street or
other public way, shall keep and maintain areas clean and free from trash,
litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown, deposited or cast upon
the street or other public way.
   (B)   Receptacles.
      (1)   Suitable receptacles shall be provided in all parking or access
areas within the meaning of division (A) of this section.
      (2)   The receptacles shall be plainly marked and constructed to prevent
scattering of any trash, litter, rubbish or other materials deposited therein.
(Prior Code, § 130.41) Penalty, see §
10.99
POSTING OF SIGNS ON MUNICIPAL PROPERTY REGARDING CARRYING CONCEALED WEAPONS
§ 130.50 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   G.S. §§ 14-415.10 et seq. made changes to the laws governing concealed
weapons by establishing a system that will allow private citizens to obtain
permits to carry concealed handguns.
   (B)   This change will significantly increase the number of individuals who
may legally carry concealed handguns.
   (C)   It is necessary to restrict the carrying of concealed handguns on
certain town property in order to protect the health and safety of municipal
employees and the community at large.
   (D)   G.S. § 14-415.23 authorized municipalities to adopt ordinances to
permit the posting of a prohibition against carrying a concealed handgun, in
accordance with G.S. § 14-415.11(c), on local government buildings, their
appurtenant premises and parks.
   (E)   It is the intent of this subchapter to direct the posting of municipal
property such that, pursuant to G.S. § 14-415.11(c), the carrying of concealed
handguns on the posted premises will constitute a violation of G.S. Ch. 14,
Art. 54B.
(Prior Code, § 130.50) (Ord. passed 12-14-1995)
§ 130.51 POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   The Town Manager is hereby authorized and instructed to post conspicuous
signage at appropriate locations on or within each park and each building or
portion of a building owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed or
controlled by the town as well as the appurtenant premises to such buildings,
indicating that carrying a concealed handgun is prohibited therein.
(Prior Code, § 130.51) (Ord. passed 12-14-1995)
§ 130.52 LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   Signs on building shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance
by which the general public can access the building. The Town Manager shall
exercise discretion in determining the number and appropriate location of signs
to be placed on or within appurtenant premises and parks.
(Prior Code, § 130.52) (Ord. passed 12-14-1995)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Restrictions for minors under the age of 16
   
131.03   Exceptions
   
131.04   Responsibility of adult
   
131.05   Aiding and abetting by adult
   
131.06   Refusal to take custody of minor
   
131.07   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION. Any corporation, company or other incorporated business
organization including a limited liability company.
   CUSTODIAN. A parent, guardian, step-parent, foster parent, house parent or
other person legally responsible for the care and custody of a minor as defined
by this chapter.
   FIRM. Any partnership, association or other unincorporated business
organization.
   MINOR. Any person who has not reached his or her eighteenth birthday and is
not married, emancipated or a member of the armed services of the United
States.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place which is generally open to and used by the public,
whether it be publicly or privately owned, including, but not limited to,
streets, highways, public vehicular areas, places of business and amusement
parks, and other common areas open to the public.
   TOWN. The Town of Coats, North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2004)
§ 131.02 RESTRICTIONS FOR MINORS UNDER THE AGE OF 16.
   It is unlawful for any minor who has not reached his or her sixteenth
birthday to be in or upon or remain in or upon any public place as defined in §
131.01 within the town or on any property or right-of-way belonging to the town
and located outside the corporate limits of the town between the hours of
midnight Friday and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or between midnight Saturday and 5:00
a.m. on Sunday or between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. of the
following days on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2004) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The restrictions provided by §
131.02 shall not apply to any minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian.
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop.
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel.
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop.
   (E)   Involved in an emergency.
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence.
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor.
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly.
   (I)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed in
accordance with state law.
§ 131.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF ADULT.
   It is unlawful for any custodian to allow or permit any minor to he in or
upon, or remain in or upon a public place within the town or on any property or
right-of-way belonging to the town and located outside the corporate limits of
the town, within the curfew hours set by §
131.02, except as provided in §
131.03.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2004) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 AIDING AND ABETTING BY ADULT.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person over the age of 18 to
aid or abet a minor in the violation of §
131.02.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2004)
§ 131.06 REFUSAL TO TAKE CUSTODY OF MINOR.
   If the custodian of a minor found to be in violation of this chapter refuses
to take custody of the minor, the officer having custody of the minor child
shall contact County Department of Social Services and release the minor to the
Agency, pending further investigation by the Police Department and the
Department of Social Services. The custodian may be issued a criminal citation
charging him or her with a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2004)
§ 131.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   When a minor is found to be in violation of this chapter, a police
officer will check with the County Communication Center and the records of the
Police Department to determine if the minor is a first offender. If the minor
is a first time offender, he or she will be taken to the residence of his or
her custodian. A written warning will be given to the custodian and an
information report will be taken by the officer. The report shall include the
name of the minor and the custodian, the time, date and location of the
offense. This report will be turned into the Police Department Records
Division.
   (B)   If, upon checking with the County Communication Center and the records
of the Coats Police Department, the minor is found to be a repeat offender, he
or she will be taken to the residence of his or her custodian and the custodian
may be issued a criminal citation charging him or her with a violation of this
chapter. A report will be turned in to the communications center and entered
into the Police Department Records Division.
   (C)   If the minor is found to be a repeat offender, the minor may be
treated as a delinquent juvenile.
   (D)   If the minor is under 12 years of age, a report will be made and a
copy forwarded to the County Department of Social Services.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2004)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $50, or imprisoned for not more
than 30 days.
(Ord. passed 8-12-2004)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
      
152.   REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION OF ABANDONED STRUCTURES
      
153.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Regulatory Codes Adopted by Reference
   
150.01   Scope of chapter and regulatory codes
   
150.02   Building Code adopted
   
150.03   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.04   Heating Code adopted
   
150.05   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.06   Residential building Code adopted
   
150.07   Amendments to codes
   
150.08   Compliance with codes
   
150.09   Copies of codes on file
Inspection Department
   
150.30   Organization of Department
   
150.31   General duties of Department and inspectors
   
150.32   Conflicts of interest
   
150.33   Reports and records
   
150.34   Inspection procedure
   
150.35   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
150.36   Powers of inspection officials
Enforcement
   
150.50   Permits required
   
150.51   Application for permit
   
150.52   Issuance of permit
   
150.53   Revocation of permits
   
150.54   Time limitations on validity of permits
   
150.55   Changes in work
   
150.56   Permit fees
Property Numbering
   
150.70   Uniform numbering system
   
150.71   Assignment of numbers
   
150.72   Administration
REGULATORY CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
§ 150.01 SCOPE OF CHAPTER AND REGULATORY CODES.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment, and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(Prior Code, § 150.01)
Cross-reference:
   Fire code adopted by reference, see §
96.01
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code, General
Construction, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, and as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code, as adopted by
the North Carolina Building Code Council, and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.04 HEATING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Heating Code, as adopted by
the North Carolina Building Code Council, and as amended, is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.05 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code, as adopted
by the North Carolina Building Code Council, and as amended, is hereby adopted
by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.06 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council, and as amended,
is hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 150.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.07 AMENDMENTS TO CODES.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein shall be effective in the town at the time the amendments
are filed with the Town Clerk-Treasurer or Building Inspector as provided in §
150.09.
(Prior Code, § 150.07)
§ 150.08 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the North Carolina State Building Code, General Construction, or the
North Carolina State Building Code, Residential, whichever is applicable, or of
both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems, or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code.
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code.
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations, and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code.
(Prior Code, § 150.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.09 COPIES OF CODES ON FILE.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein and official copies
of all amendments thereto shall be kept on file in the office of the Town
Clerk-Treasurer or the Building Inspector. The copies shall be the official
copies of the codes and the amendments.
(Prior Code, § 150.09)
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.30 ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Inspection Department of the town shall consist of a building inspector
and may also include a plumbing inspector, a heating-air conditioning
inspector, an electrical inspector and such other inspectors or deputy or
assistant inspectors as may be authorized by the governing body. The governing
body may in its discretion designate a department head.
(Prior Code, § 150.30)
Editor’s note:
   The city from time to time appoints or contracts an official inspecting
authority. Code users should contact the Town Manager to ascertain the identity
of the current inspecting authority.
§ 150.31 GENERAL DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT AND INSPECTORS.
   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein and to
make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and such codes are being met.
(Prior Code, § 150.31)
§ 150.32 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material, or appliances for the
construction, alteration, or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the owner of
the building. No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall engage
in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interest
of the town.
(Prior Code, § 150.32) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.33 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Inspection Department and each inspector shall keep complete, permanent,
and accurate records in convenient form of all applications received, permits
issued, inspections and reinspections made, and all other work and activities
of the Inspection Department. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the
governing body and to other agencies as required.
(Prior Code, § 150.33)
§ 150.34 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   The Inspection Department shall inspect all buildings and structures and
work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as often as
necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with this chapter and
the appropriate codes.
(Prior Code, § 150.34)
§ 150.35 OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(Prior Code, § 150.35)
§ 150.36 POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Authority. Inspectors are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to
enforce all the provisions of this chapter and the regulatory codes herein
adopted.
   (B)   Right-of-entry. With an appropriate warrant or permission from the
owner or occupant, inspectors shall have the right of entry on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at reasonable
hours for the purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this
chapter and the applicable regulatory codes.
   (C)   Stop orders. Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is
being demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a
hazardous manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other
town ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in such manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector
may order the work to be immediately stopped. The order shall be in writing to
the owner of the property or to his or her agent or to the person doing the
work and shall state the reasons therefor and the conditions under which the
work may be resumed.
(Prior Code, § 150.36)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.50 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit.
      (1)   No person shall commence or proceed with the construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal or demolition of any building or
other structure or any part thereof without a written permit therefor from the
Building Inspector; provided, however, that, no building permit shall be
required for work the total cost of which does not exceed $100 and which does
not involve any change of the structural parts or the stairways, elevators,
fire escapes or other means of egress of the building or the structure in
question. County Board of Health approval of a septic tank is required where
the sewage system cannot be connected to the town sewer.
      (2)   In all cases of removal or demolition of a building or structure, a
good and sufficient bond may be required to be posted by the property owner or
by a contractor at the time of application for a permit to insure complete
removal or demolition, including all rubble and debris. Failure on the part of
the property owner or a contractor to completely demolish, remove and clear the
premises after 30 days notice by the Building Inspector shall be cause for
forfeiture of the bond.
   (B)   Electrical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any electrical wiring,
devices, appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from the
Electrical Inspector; provided, however, that, no permit shall be required for
minor repair work such as the replacement of lamps or the connection of
portable devices to suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed;
provided, further, that, no permit shall be required for the installation,
alteration or repair of the electrical wiring, devices, appliances and
equipment installed by or for an electrical public utility corporation for the
use of the corporation in the generation, transmission, distribution or
metering of electrical energy.
(Prior Code, § 150.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.51 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department.
   (B)   The application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected or by an authorized agent or representative and, in addition
to such other information as may be required by the appropriate inspector to
enable the inspector to determine whether the permit applied for should be
issued, shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence, and business address of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence, and business of authorized representative or
agent, if any; and
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that the contractor has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state
licensing board for such contractors, if such be required for the work involved
in the permit for which application is made.
(Prior Code, § 150.51)
§ 150.52 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, the
inspector shall issue the permit, upon payment of the proper fee or fees as
hereinafter provided in §
150.56.
(Prior Code, § 150.52)
§ 150.53 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications, for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the inspector, for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(Prior Code, § 150.53)
§ 150.54 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If after commencement the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit
therefor has been secured.
(Prior Code, § 150.54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.55 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.55)
§ 150.56 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all subcontracts if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the town as determined by the appropriate inspector or inspectors.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Building permit fees. See schedule of fees in the office of the
Building Inspector.
      (2)   Electrical permit fees. See schedule of fees in the office of the
Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 150.56)
PROPERTY NUMBERING
§ 150.70 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   A uniform system of numbering properties and principal buildings, as shown
on the map identified by the title “Coats Property Numbering System”, which is
filed in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer, is hereby adopted for use in
the town. This map and all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.70)
§ 150.71 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   All properties or parcels of land within the corporate limits of the
town shall hereafter be identified by reference to the uniform numbering system
adopted herein.
   (B)   The property shall be numbered using north/south and east/west base
lines, with McKinley Street being the north/south base line and Main Street
being the east/west base line. All numbering shall start where McKinley Street
and Main Street cross.
   (C)   All properties that front on the north and east side of the street
shall have odd numbers; all properties that front on the south and west side of
the street shall have even numbers.
   (D)   A separate number shall be assigned for each 50 feet of frontage and
numbers shall change every 300 feet in areas where town streets are not
extended.
   (E)   Each principal building shall bear the number assigned to the frontage
on which the front entrance is located. In the case of a principal building
occupied by more than one business or family dwelling unit, each separate front
entrance of the principal building shall bear a separate number.
   (F)   Numerals indicating the official numbers for each principal building
or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner as to be
visible from the street on which the property is located.
(Prior Code, § 150.71)
§ 150.72 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining the
numbering system. In the performance of this responsibility, he or she shall be
guided by the provisions of §
150.71 of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of all numbers assigned
under this chapter.
   (C)   The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall issue appropriate numbers to any
property owner in the town upon request.
(Prior Code, § 150.72)
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Finding; purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
General Regulations
   
151.15   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
151.16   Minimum standards for structural condition
   
151.17   Minimum standards for basic plumbing, heating and electrical equipment
and facilities
   
151.18   Minimum standards for ventilation
   
151.19   Minimum standards for space, use and location
   
151.20   Minimum standards for safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.21   Minimum standards for control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
151.22   Minimum standards applicable to rooming houses; exceptions
   
151.23   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.30   Powers and duties of Building Inspector
   
151.31   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
151.32   Procedure for enforcement
   
151.33   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.34   Failure to comply with order of Inspector
   
151.35   Costs; a lien on premises
   
151.36   Alternative remedies
   
151.37   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
151.38   Conflict with other provisions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is declared that there exists in the town
dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation; defects
increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities; lack of
ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other conditions rendering the
dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety
and morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the town.
In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the town
as authorized by G.S. Ch. 160A, Part 6, Art. 19, it is the purpose of this
chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and continued
occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly authorized
by G.S. § 160A-444.
(Prior Code, § 151.01) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the town or any building
inspector for whose services the town has contracted or any authorized agent of
the Inspector.
   CELLAR. A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home or part
thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and
includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed
therewith, except that it does not include any manufactured or mobile home as
defined in G.S. § 143-145(7), which is used solely for a seasonal vacation
purpose. The term shall include within its meaning the terms ROOMING HOUSE and
ROOMING UNIT.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking
and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly, or severally with others shall:
      (1)   Have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof;
      (2)   Be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit; or
      (3)   Have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor, executrix,
administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the actual
owner. Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to
comply with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PARTY or PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in a
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipe, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the town or of the county or the
state relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father, or
brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Non-organic waste materials. Includes paper, rags, cartons, boxes,
wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans,
metals, mineral matter, glass and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished, or provided by, or under the control of the
owner or operator.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. That conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling
unit, rooming house or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or
more of the minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements
established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.02) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.15 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.16 through
151.21 of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.16 through
151.21 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.16) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   The following standards shall constitute the minimum standards for
structural conditions of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated, or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which
might admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in such condition that they will not fall or collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
(Prior Code, § 151.16) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.17 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC PLUMBING, HEATING AND ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT
AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to a public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold and hot
water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution system
connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the State
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water closet and tub
or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with the following:
      (1)   Central and electrical heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F measured at a point three feet
above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues, gas vents or other facilities to which
heating appliances may be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum
temperature of 70°F measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter
conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in such manner
as determined by the State Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such
habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type electric
convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the State Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 151.17) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.18 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR VENTILATION.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window or
any room and such light-obstructing structures are located less than five feet
from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room,
such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall
not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window area.
Whenever the only window in a room is a skylight-type window in the top of such
room, the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the
total floor area of such room.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will adequately
ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every habitable room
shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight-type window size as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent
ventilation.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet rooms equipped with an
approved ventilation system.
(Prior Code, § 151.18) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.19 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Room sizes.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in
each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. The floor area shall be calculated on the
basis of habitable room area. However, the closet area and wall area within the
dwelling unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor
area. The floor area of any part of any room where the ceiling height is less
than four and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area
for the purpose of determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms;
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or accessway.
(Prior Code, § 151.19) (Ord. passed 9-8-94)
§ 151.20 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weathertight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or
penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weathertight, watertight and rodent
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so that it will
be reasonably impervious to water and will permit such floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 151.20) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.21 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)    Screens. In every dwelling unit, for protection against mosquitoes,
flies and other insects, every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to
outdoor space shall be equipped with screens and a self-closing device. Every
window or other device with openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be
used for ventilation, shall likewise be equipped with screens.
   (B)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used to ventilate, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an
entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or such other approved device
as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (C)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of insects, rodents or other
pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a
dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent proof or reasonable insect proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (D)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of
such dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (E)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage can as required by town
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 151.21) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.22 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy and any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in
this section:
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an approved
water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be supplied for
each four rooms within a rooming house wherever these facilities are shared.
All such facilities shall be located within the residence building served and
shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall be not
more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing such facilities.
Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot and cold
water at all times. Such facilities shall not be located in a cellar.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors, and ceilings,
and for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house. He
or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) of this section shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy, are
separate from the habitable rooms, are accessible from a common hall, and are
accessible without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein.
(Prior Code, § 151.22) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.23 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases, the
owner shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage
facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
wilfully destroy, deface, or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 151.23) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.30 POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed. The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may
be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and
provisions of this chapter. The Building Inspector shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town and in the one-mile extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the town, in order to determine which dwellings and dwelling
units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying out the
objectives of this ordinance with respect to the repair, closing or demolition
of such dwellings and dwelling units;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness herein prescribed;
   (D)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (E)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with §
151.31 of this chapter and state law and shall be made in a manner as to cause
the least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession; and
   (F)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or by the
Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 151.30) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.31 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Building Inspector is
hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units and the premises
associated therewith. The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house or rooming unit or the person in charge thereof shall give the
Building Inspector free access to the dwelling and its premises at all
reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection, examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to
any part of the dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of making repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.31) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.32 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by a public authority or by at least five residents of
the town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction, charging that any dwelling or
dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the
Inspector, upon inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation
discloses a basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner
of and parties of interest in such dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint
stating the charges in that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will
be held before the Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten nor
more than 30 days after the serving of the complaint. The owner or any party in
interest shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint and to appear
in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the
complaint. Notice of such hearing shall also be given to at least one of the
persons signing a petition relating to such dwelling. Any person desiring to do
so may attend such hearing and give evidence. Rules of evidence prevailing in
courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After such notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing
his or her determinations as to whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit
for human habitation, and, if so, whether it is “deteriorated” or
“dilapidated”.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
“deteriorated”, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of the determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof, an order directing and requiring the owner within a specified
period of time which shall not be less than 60 days, to repair, alter or
improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter or directing and requiring the owner to
vacate and close such dwelling or dwelling unit as human habitation.
      (3)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is “dilapidated”, he
or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support the
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof,
an order directing and requiring the owner either to repair, alter, or improve
the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else to vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a specified period of time, which shall be not less than 60 days.
      (4)   For good cause shown, and prior to the expiration of the time
specified in the original order of the Building Inspector, the owner of any
dwelling or dwelling unit may petition the Building Inspector to allow an
additional period of time to comply with the order hereinabove issued.
      (5)   The Building Inspector may, for good cause shown immediately issue
an order granting additional time as requested; otherwise, the Building
Inspector shall give the owner(s) five-days’ notice of a hearing on the
petition and shall issue an order within ten days of the filing of the petition
for additional time. The order shall grant additional time; or deny the request
for additional time; provided that if the request for additional time is
denied, the owner(s) shall not be subject to any penalties for violation of the
original order until such time as the order of the Building Inspector has been
served on him or her denying the request. Service of the order may be as
follows:
         (a)   By hand delivery to the owner(s) by the Building Inspector or
his or her agent;
         (b)   By mailing first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to
the owner(s) at their address established in the proceeding (service shall be
complete on the expiration of three days after depositing the same in the mails
as aforesaid); or
         (c)   By service as authorized in the Civil Rules of Procedure.
   (C)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of the
town. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken within ten days from the
rendering of the decision or service of the order, and shall be taken by filing
with the Inspector and with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal
which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing
of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board
all the papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from
was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the
Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have
the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless
the Inspector certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with
him or her, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of
which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement
would cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement
shall not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for
due cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Inspector,
by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. §
160A-446(f) and division (E) of this section.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of 4/5 of the members of
the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case
where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order of rendering of the decision,
to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(Prior Code, § 151.32) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994 amended - -)
§ 151.33 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service is made by
registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may also be sent
by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or
certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by
the post office within the ten days after the mailing. If regular mail is used,
a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on
the premises affected. If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of
persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect,
and the serving of such complaint or order upon the owners and persons may be
made by publishing the same at least once, no later than the time at which
personal service would be required under the provisions of this chapter, in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Prior Code, § 151.33) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994 amended - -)
§ 151.34 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Building Inspector to
repair, alter, or improve or to vacate and close the same within the time
specified therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit
shall fail to comply with an order of the Building inspector to repair, alter
or improve or to remove or demolish the same within the time specified therein,
the Building Inspector may submit to the Board of Commissioners at its next
regular meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the
superior court for an order, directing the owner to comply with the order of
the building inspector as authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
   (B)   In rem remedy.
      (1)   If the owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail to comply
with an order of the Building Inspector to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to vacate and close the dwelling or dwelling unit, or
shall fail to comply with an order to either repair, alter or improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit or else to vacate and remove or demolish the same
within the time specified in the order, and if injunctive relief has not been
sought or has not been granted as provided in the preceding §
151.34(A); then the Building Inspector shall request the Board of Commissioners
to order him or her by ordinance specifically describing the subject property
to repair, alter or improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the
minimum standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to cause the
dwelling unit to be vacated and closed, or in the case of a dilapidated
dwelling or dwelling unit, to remove or demolish the dwelling or dwelling unit.
The Board of Commissioners, in ordering one of the aforesaid alternatives,
shall order the specific action that will best effectuate the purposes of this
Chapter.
      (2)   (a)   The ordinance may also order the Building Inspector to cause
to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling or dwelling unit that is
ordered to be vacated and closed, a placard with the following words:
            “This building is unfit for human habitation: the use or occupation
of this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
         (b)   The occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a Class
I misdemeanor.
      (3)   Each ordinance so adopted shall be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds of the county, and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
      (4)   If the Board of Commissioners shall have adopted an ordinance, or
the Building Inspector shall have issued an order, ordering a dwelling or
dwelling unit to be repaired or vacated and closed as provided in this chapter,
and if the owner has vacated and closed the swelling and kept pursuant to the
ordinance or order, then the Board of Commissioners shall find that the owner
has abandoned the intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the dwelling
or dwelling unit in order to render it fit for human habitation and that the
continuation of the dwelling or dwelling unit in its vacated and closed status
would he inimical to the health, safety, morals and welfare of the municipality
in that the dwelling or dwelling unit would be a threat to children and
vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities, would cause or
contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in the area and
would render unavailable property and a dwelling which might otherwise have
been made available to ease the persistent shortage of decent and affordable
housing in this state, then in such circumstances, the Board of Commissioners
may, after the expiration of the one-year period enact an ordinance and serve
the ordinance on the owner setting forth the following:
         (a)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling or dwelling
unit to render it fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding
50% of the then current value of the dwelling, the section shall require that
the owner either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling or dwelling unit
within 90 days.
         (b)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling or dwelling
unit to render it fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not
exceeding 50% of the then current value of the dwelling the ordinance shall
require the owner to demolish and remove the dwelling or dwelling unit within
90 days.
         (c)   This chapter shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds of County and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the
grantor index as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5a). If the owner fails to comply
with this section, the Building Inspector shall effectuate the purpose of the
ordinances.
      (5)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling
or dwelling unit, the Building Inspector may file a civil action in the name of
the town to remove the occupant. The action shall be filed and conducted in
accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 160A-443(7).
(Prior Code, § 151.34)
§ 151.35 COSTS; A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160A-439(I), the cost of any repairs,
alterations or improvements, or of vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
151.34 of this chapter shall be a lien against the real property upon which the
cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed, have priority, and be collected in
the same manner as the lien for special assessments established by G.S. Ch.
160A, Art. 10.
   (B)   If the real property upon which the cost was incurred is located
within the incorporated limits of the town, then the amount of costs shall also
be a lien on any other real property of the owner located within the Town
limits or within one mile thereof, except for the owner’s primary residence.
This additional is inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as money
judgment.
   (C)   If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the Building Inspector, he
shall, if possible sell in any commercially reasonable manner the materials of
the dwelling, and any personal property, fixtures or appurtenances found in or
attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale against the
cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall be deposited
in the Superior Court by the Building Inspector, shall be secured in a manner
directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the persons found
to be entitled thereto by final order or decree of the Court.
(Prior Code, § 151.35) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994 amended)
§ 151.36 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way, the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by a civil citation as authorized by §
151.99 of this chapter, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall
not prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies.
(Prior Code, § 151.36) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.37 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Inspector
pursuant to §
151.32(D) of this chapter shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the
times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any
other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of
its duties. The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
151.32(D) of this chapter and shall keep an accurate journal of all its
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 151.37) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.38 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 151.38) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made
and served as herein provided, within the time specified in the order. Each day
that any failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
151.32 of this chapter to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the
time prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing. Each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to a civil penalty in the sum of $50 per
day.
      (2)   A citation for the civil penalty for violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be issued by the Town Manager.
      (3)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 72 hours of
issuance.
      (4)   Each and every day that the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit
violates any provision of this chapter shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (C)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (D)   In addition to the penalty established by division (C) of this
section, and the remedies provided by other provisions of this chapter, this
chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 151.99) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
CHAPTER 152: REPAIR, CLOSING OR DEMOLITION OF ABANDONED STRUCTURES
Section
   
152.01   Finding; intent
   
152.02   Duties of the Building Inspector
   
152.03   Powers of the Building Inspector
   
152.04   Inspections; duty of owners
   
152.05   Standards for enforcement
   
152.06   Procedure for enforcement
   
152.07   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
152.08   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
152.09   Costs; a lien on premises
   
152.10   Alternative remedies
   
152.11   Zoning Board of Adjustment to hear appeals
   
152.12   Conflict with other provisions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 FINDING; INTENT.
   It is hereby found that there exists within the town abandoned structures
which the Board of Commissioners finds to be hazardous to the health, safety
and welfare of the residents of the town due to the attraction of insects or
rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a
threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the
absence of sanitary facilities. Therefore, pursuant to the authority granted by
G.S. § 160A-441, it is the intent of this chapter to provide for the repair,
closing or demolition of any such abandoned structures in the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction, in accordance with the same provisions and
procedures as are set forth by law for the repair, closing or demolition of
dwellings unfit for human habitation.
(Prior Code, § 152.01) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.02 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector, as defined in
Chapter 151, is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to:
   (A)   Determine which abandoned structures within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction are in violation of this chapter;
   (B)   Take action pursuant to this chapter as may be necessary to provide
for the repair, closing or demolition of the structures;
   (C)   Keep an accurate record of all enforcement proceedings begun pursuant
to the provisions of this chapter; and
   (D)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed herein or assigned to
him or her by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 152.02) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.03 POWERS OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector is authorized to exercise powers as may be necessary
to carry out the intent and the provisions of this chapter, including the
following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To investigate the condition of buildings within the town and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction in order to determine which structures are
abandoned and in violation of this chapter;
   (B)   To enter upon the premises for the purpose of making inspections;
provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with state law; and
   (C)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence.
(Prior Code, § 152.03) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.04 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Building Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all abandoned
structures. The owner of every abandoned structure or the person in charge
thereof shall give the Building Inspector free access to the structures at all
reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection, examination and survey.
(Prior Code, § 152.04) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.05 STANDARDS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Every abandoned structure within the town and its extraterritorial
jurisdiction shall be deemed in violation of this chapter whenever the
structure constitutes a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of the citizens
as a result of:
      (1)   The attraction of insects or rodents;
      (2)   Conditions creating a fire hazard;
      (3)   Dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children; or
      (4)   Frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of
sanitary facilities.
   (B)   In making the preliminary determination of whether or not an abandoned
structure is in violation of this chapter, the Building Inspector may, by way
of illustration and not limitation, consider the presence or absence of the
following conditions:
      (1)   Holes or cracks in the structure’s floors, walls, ceilings or roof
which might attract or admit rodents and insects, or become breeding places for
rodents and insects;
      (2)   The collection of garbage or rubbish in or near the structure which
might attract rodents and insects or become breeding places for rodents and
insects;
      (3)   Violations of the State Building Code, State Electrical Code or
Fire Prevention Code which constitute a fire hazard in the structure;
      (4)   The collection of garbage, rubbish or combustible material which
constitutes a fire hazard in such structure;
      (5)   The use of the structure or nearby ground or facilities by children
as a play area;
      (6)   Violations of the State Building Code which might result in danger
to children using the structure or nearby grounds or facilities as a play area;
and
      (7)   Repeated use of the structure by transients and vagrants, in the
absence of sanitary facilities, for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
(Prior Code, § 152.05) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.06 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by a public authority or by at least five residents of
the town or its extraterritorial jurisdiction charging that any structure
exists in violation of this chapter or whenever it appears to the Inspector,
upon inspection, that any structure exists in violation hereof, he or she
shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for such
charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest
in such structure a complaint stating the charges in that respect and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place
therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of the hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to the structure. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After the notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing
his or her determination as to whether the structure violates this chapter.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the structure is in violation, he
or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support the
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve the
structure; or remove or demolish the same within a specified period of time
which shall not be less than 60 days.
      (3)   For good cause shown, and prior to the expiration of the time
specified in the original order of the Building Inspector, the owner of any
abandoned structure may petition the Building Inspector to allow an additional
period of time to comply with the order issued.
      (4)   The Building Inspector may, for good cause shown, immediately issue
an order granting additional time as requested otherwise.
      (5)   The Building Inspector shall give the owner(s) five-days’ notice of
a hearing on the petition and shall issue an order within ten days of the
filing of the petition for additional time. The order shall:
         (a)   Grant additional time; or
         (b)   Deny the request for additional time; provided that if the
request for additional time is denied, the owner(s) shall not be subject to any
penalties for violation of the original order until such time as the order of
the Building Inspector has been served on him or her denying the request.
Service of the order may be as follows:
            1.   By hand delivery to the owner(s) by the Building Inspector or
his or her agent;
            2.   By mailing first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to
the owner(s) at his, her or their address established in the proceeding
(service shall be complete on the expiration of three days after depositing the
same in the mails as aforesaid); or
            3.   By service as authorized in the Civil Rules of Procedure.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any structure shall fail to
comply with an order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, the
Inspector may submit to the Board of Commissioners at its next regular meeting
a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the Superior Court for an
order directing such owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a structure to comply
with an order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive
relief has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in subsection
(1) of this division, the Inspector shall submit to the Board of Commissioners
an ordinance specifying the property and ordering the Inspector to cause such
structure to be repaired, altered, improved, removed or demolished, as provided
in the original order of the Inspector, and pending removal or demolition, to
placard such dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160A-443.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of the
town. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken within ten days from the
rendering of the decision or service of the order, and shall be taken by filing
with the Inspector and with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a notice of appeal
which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing
of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board
all the papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from
was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the
Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have
the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless
the Inspector certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with
him or her, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of
which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement
would cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement
shall not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for
due cause shown upon not less than one-day’s written notice to the Inspector,
by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. §
160A-446(f) and division (E) of this section.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of 4/5 of the members of
the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any case
where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of
carrying out the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of
the ordinance to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
ordinance shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to Superior Court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector shall have the right, within 30 days after issuance of
the order to petition the Superior Court for a temporary injunction restraining
the Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. §
160A-446(f).
(Prior Code, § 152.06) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.07 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the identities of any
owners or the whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by
the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the Inspector shall make
an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of such complaint or order upon
such owners and persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having
general circulation in the town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction at least
once, no later than the time at which personal service is required under §
152.06 of this chapter. Where service is made by publication, a notice of the
pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected by the complaint or order.
(Prior Code, § 152.07) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.08 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a structure to comply with an order of
the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, and upon
adoption by the Board of Commissioners of an ordinance authorizing and
directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5) and §
152.05(C) of this chapter, the Inspector shall proceed to cause such structure
to be repaired, altered, improved, removed or demolished, as directed by the
ordinance of the Board of Commissioners, and shall cause to be posted on the
main entrance of such structure a placard prohibiting the use or occupation of
the structure. Use or occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each ordinance so adopted shall be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds of Harnett County, and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. § 160A-443(5).
(Prior Code, § 152.08) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.09 COSTS; A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-439(I), the amount of the cost of any repairs,
alterations, improvements, removal or demolition caused to be made or done by
the Inspector pursuant to this chapter shall be a lien against the real
property upon which the cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the
same priority, and be collected as the lien for special assessment provided by
G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
(Prior Code, § 152.09) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.10 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to compare
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by civil penalty, and the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies
provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.11 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT TO HEAR APPEALS.
   All appeals which may be taken from decisions or orders of the Inspector
pursuant to §
152.06(D) of this chapter shall be heard and determined by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. As the appeals body, the Board shall have the power to fix the
times and places of its meetings, to adopt necessary rules of procedure and any
other rules and regulations which may be necessary for the proper discharge of
its duties. The Board shall perform the duties prescribed by §
152.06(D) of this chapter and shall keep an accurate journal of all its
proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.12 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 152.12) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any abandoned structure to fail,
neglect, or refuse to repair, alter, or improve the same, or to remove or
demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as provided
in this chapter, within the time specified in such order. Each day that any
such failure, neglect, or refusal to comply with such order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
      (1)   Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
owner of any abandoned structure to a civil penalty in the sum of $50 per day.
      (2)   A citation for the civil penalty for violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be issued by the Town Manager.
      (3)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within 72 hours of
issuance.
      (4)   Each and every day that the owner of any abandoned structure
violates any provision of this chapter shall be a separate and distinct
offense.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   In addition to the penalty established by division (A) of this
section, and the remedies provided by other provisions of this chapter, this
chapter may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 152.99) (Ord. passed 9-8-1994)
CHAPTER 153: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
153.01   Zoning Code adopted by reference
   
153.02   Subdivision Code adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ZONING CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
   The revised comprehensive zoning ordinances are adopted and incorporated as
part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.02 SUBDIVISION CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision code is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
—      12-10-1981  Granting a cable television franchise to Future
                     Cablevision of North Carolina, Incorporated.
—      2-13-1986   Authorizing assignment of a cable television franchise
                     from Univision Cable Systems, Inc. to Univision Associate.
                    
 
TABLE II: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites                Code Section
                          35.99;
14-4                      92.06;
                          151.99;
                          152.99
14-4(a)                   10.99
14-4(b)                   70.99
Ch. 14, Art. 27A          130.05
Ch. 14, Art. 54B          130.50
14-399                    130.40
14-415.10 et seq.         130.05
14-415.11(c)              130.50
14-415.23                 130.50
Ch. 18                    Char., Related local laws
Ch. 18, Art. 3            Char., Related local laws
18-39                     Char., Related local laws
18-45(o)                  Char., Related local laws
Ch. 18B                   Char., Related local laws
20-4.01                   70.01
20-4.01(27)               70.01
20-4.01(27)d1             70.01
20-4.01(32)               77.02
20-219.11(c)              92.39
35-2                      Char., Related local laws
Ch. 35A                   Char., Related local laws
Ch. 44A, Art. 1           92.41
62-3(17)                  111.01
62-3(18)                  111.01
105-33 et seq.            Char., §
                          16
                          Char., §§
                          13,
105-271 et seq.           14,
                          17—
                          21
136-141 et seq.           92.44
136-143                   92.44
143-145(7)                151.02
153A-123                  114.13
159-7 et seq.             34.02
159-24                    31.03
159-25                    31.03
159-28                    34.02
160A-64                   Char., Disposition table
160A-69                   31.02
160A-71                   30.15
160A-74                   30.16
160A-79                   30.41
                          Char., §
160A-101                  4;
                          31.02
160A-102                  31.02
160A-103                  31.02
160A-146                  31.05
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, Part 2  31.02
160A-171                  31.03
160A-172                  31.04
160A-174                  Char., §
                          9
                          Char., §
160A-175                  8;
                          10.99;
                          112.10
160A-188                  90.02
160A-193                  92.05;
                          92.30
160A-194                  Ch. 113
Ch. 160A, Art. 10         151.35;
                          152.09
160A-209                  Char., §
                          12
160A-211                  Char., §
                          15
160A-279 et seq.          Char., Disposition table
160A-281                  33.04
160A-282                  33.28
160A-285                  33.04
160A-286                  Char., Disposition table
160A-303                  92.30;
                          92.32
160A-303.2                92.30;
                          92.32
160A-304                  Ch. 111
160A-319                  114.02
160A-341 et seq.          32.60
Ch. 160A, Art. 17         32.60
Ch. 160A, Art. 18         32.24
160A-360(b)               32.41
160A-361                  32.40
160A-362                  32.40
160A-435                  96.01
160A-436                  96.01
160A-431(I)               151.35
Ch. 160A, Part 6, Art. 19 151.01
160A-441                  151.01;
                          152.01
160A-443                  152.06
160A-443(5)               151.34;
                          152.08
160A-443(5a)              151.34
160A-443(7)               151.34
160A-444                  151.01
160A-446(6)               151.35;
                          152.09
160A-446(f)               151.32;
                          152.06
160A-446(g)               151.34;
                          152.06
Ch. 162                   114.09
163-279 et seq.           Char., §
                          8
163-279                   Char., Disposition table
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2011 Code
Prior Code       2011 Code
10.01            10.01
10.02            10.02
10.03            10.03
10.04            10.04
10.05            10.05
10.06            10.06
10.07            10.07
10.08            10.08
10.09            10.09
10.10            10.10
10.11            10.11
10.12            10.12
10.13            10.13
10.14            10.14
10.15            10.15
10.16            10.16
10.17            10.17
10.18            10.18
10.99            10.99
30.01            30.01
30.15            30.15
30.16            30.16
30.17            30.17
30.18            30.18
30.20            30.19
30.21            30.20
30.22            30.21
30.23            30.22
30.24            30.23
30.25            30.24
30.26            30.25
30.40            30.40
30.41            30.41
31.01            31.02
31.02            31.03
31.03            31.04
31.06            31.05
32.01            32.01
32.03            32.02
32.20            32.20
32.21            32.21
32.22            32.22
32.23            32.23
32.24            32.24
32.40            32.40
32.41            32.41
34.42            32.42
32.43            32.43
32.44            32.44
32.45            32.45
32.46            32.46
32.47            32.47
32.48            32.48
32.49            32.49
32.50            32.50
32.51            32.51
32.60            32.60
32.61            32.61
32.62            32.62
32.63            32.63
32.64            32.64
33.01            33.01
33.03            33.02
33.04            33.03
33.05            33.04
33.20            33.20
33.21            33.21
33.22            33.22
33.23            33.23
33.24            33.24
33.25            33.25
33.26            33.26
33.27            33.27
33.28            33.28
34.01            34.01
34.02            34.02
36.01            35.01
36.02            35.02
36.99            35.99
50.01            50.01
50.02            50.02
50.03            50.03
50.04            50.04
50.05            50.05
50.06            50.06
50.07            50.07
50.08            50.08
50.09            50.09
50.10            50.10
51.01            51.01
51.02            51.02
51.03            51.03
51.04            51.04
51.05            51.05
51.06            51.06
51.07            51.07
51.08            51.08
51.09            51.09
51.10            51.10
51.11            51.11
51.12            51.12
51.13            51.13
51.14            51.14
51.15            51.15
51.16            51.16
51.17            51.17
51.18            51.18
51.19            51.19
51.20            51.20
51.21            51.21
51.22            51.22
51.23            51.23
51.24            51.24
51.25            51.25
51.26            51.26
70.01            70.01
70.02            70.02
70.03            70.03
70.04            70.04
70.05            70.05
70.06            70.06
70.07            70.07
70.20            70.20
70.21            70.21
70.22            70.22
70.23            70.23
70.24            70.24
70.25            70.25
70.26            70.26
70.27            70.27
70.28            70.28
70.29            70.29
70.30            70.30
70.31            70.31
70.99            70.99
71.01            71.01
71.02            71.02
71.20            71.20
71.21            71.21
71.22            71.22
71.23            71.23
71.24            71.24
71.40            71.40
71.41            71.41
71.60            71.60
71.61            71.61
71.62            71.62
71.63            71.63
71.64            71.64
71.65            71.65
71.66            71.66
71.80            71.80
71.81            71.81
71.82            71.82
71.83            71.83
71.84            71.84
71.85            71.85
71.86            71.86
71.87            71.87
72.01            72.01
72.02            72.02
72.03            72.03
72.04            72.04
72.05            72.05
72.06            72.06
72.20            72.20
72.21            72.21
72.22            72.22
72.23            72.23
72.24            72.24
72.25            72.25
72.26            72.26
72.27            72.27
72.40            72.40
72.41            72.41
72.42            72.42
72.43            72.43
72.44            72.44
72.45            72.45
72.60            72.60
72.61            72.61
72.62            72.62
72.63            72.63
72.64            72.64
73.01            73.01
73.02            73.02
73.03            73.03
73.04            73.04
73.05            73.05
73.06            73.06
73.07            73.07
73.08            73.08
73.09            73.09
73.10            73.10
73.11            73.11
74.01            74.01
74.02            74.02
74.03            74.03
74.04            74.04
74.05            74.05
74.06            74.06
74.07            74.07
74.08            74.08
74.20            74.20
74.21            74.21
74.22            74.22
74.23            74.23
74.24            74.24
Ch. 75, Sch. I   Ch. 75, Sch. I
Ch. 75, Sch. II  Ch. 75, Sch. II
Ch. 75, Sch. III Ch. 75, Sch. III
Ch. 75, Sch. IV  Ch. 75, Sch. IV
Ch. 75, Sch. V   Ch. 75, Sch. V
Ch. 75, Sch. VI  Ch. 75, Sch. VI
Ch. 75, Sch. VII Ch. 75, Sch. VII
Ch. 76. Sch. I   Ch. 76. Sch. I
Ch. 76. Sch. II  Ch. 76. Sch. II
91.01            91.01
91.02            91.02
91.03            91.03
91.04            91.04
91.05            91.05
91.06            91.06
91.07            91.07
91.08            91.08
91.09            91.09
91.10            91.10
91.11            91.11
91.12            91.12
91.13            91.13
91.14            91.14
91.15            91.15
92.01            92.01
92.02            92.02
92.03            92.03
92.04            92.04
92.05            92.05
92.06            92.06
92.30            92.30
92.31            92.31
92.32            92.32
92.33            92.33
92.34            92.34
92.35            92.35
92.36            92.36
92.37            92.37
92.38            92.38
92.39            92.39
92.40            92.40
92.41            92.41
92.42            92.42
92.43            92.43
92.44            92.44
92.45            92.45
93.01            93.01
93.02            93.02
93.03            93.03
93.04            93.04
93.05            93.05
93.06            93.06
93.07            93.07
93.08            93.08
94.01            94.01
95.01            95.01
95.02            95.02
95.03            95.03
95.04            95.04
95.05            95.05
95.06            95.06
95.07            95.07
95.08            95.08
95.09            95.09
95.10            95.10
95.11            95.11
96.01            96.01
96.02            96.02
96.03            96.03
110.01           110.01
110.02           110.02
110.03           110.03
110.04           110.04
110.05           110.05
110.06           110.06
110.07           110.07
110.08           110.08
110.09           110.09
111.01           111.01
111.02           111.02
111.03           111.03
111.04           111.04
111.05           111.05
111.06           111.06
111.07           111.07
111.08           111.08
111.09           111.09
111.10           111.10
111.11           111.11
111.12           111.12
111.13           111.13
113.01           113.01
113.02           113.02
113.03           113.03
113.04           113.04
113.05           113.05
113.06           113.06
114.01           114.01
114.02           114.02
114.03           114.03
114.04           114.04
114.05           114.05
114.06           114.06
114.07           114.07
114.08           114.08
114.09           114.09
114.10           114.10
114.11           114.11
114.12           114.12
114.13           114.13
114.14           114.14
114.15           114.15
114.16           114.16
114.17           114.17
114.18           114.18
114.19           114.19
114.20           114.20
130.01           130.01
130.02           130.02
130.03           130.03
130.04           130.04
130.20           130.20
130.21           130.21
130.22           130.22
130.23           130.23
130.24           130.24
130.40           130.40
130.41           130.41
130.50           130.50
130.51           130.51
130.52           130.52
150.01           150.01
150.02           150.02
150.03           150.03
150.04           150.04
150.05           150.05
150.06           150.06
150.07           150.07
150.08           150.08
150.09           150.09
150.30           150.30
150.31           150.31
150.32           150.32
150.33           150.33
150.34           150.34
150.35           150.35
150.36           150.36
150.50           150.50
150.51           150.51
150.52           150.52
150.53           150.53
150.54           150.54
150.55           150.55
150.56           150.56
150.70           150.70
150.71           150.71
150.72           150.72
151.01           151.01
151.02           151.02
151.16           151.15
151.16           151.16
151.17           151.17
151.18           151.18
151.19           151.19
151.20           151.20
151.21           151.21
151.22           151.22
151.23           151.23
151.30           151.30
151.31           151.31
151.32           151.32
151.33           151.33
151.34           151.34
151.35           151.35
151.36           151.36
151.37           151.37
151.38           151.38
151.99           151.99
152.01           152.01
152.02           152.02
152.03           152.03
152.04           152.04
152.05           152.05
152.06           152.06
152.07           152.07
152.08           152.08
152.09           152.09
152.10           152.10
152.11           152.11
152.12           152.12
152.99           152.99
                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. III;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. IV;
-        - -         Ch. 75, Sch. V;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VII;
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I;
                     Ch. 76, Sch. II
                     77.01—
-        - -         77.01;
                     77.99
-        - -         153.01;
                     153.02
-        6-1-1971    32.20—
                     32.24
-        2-5-1972    Char., §
                     4
-        1-18-1972   32.60—
                     32.64
                     51.09;
-        8-7-1975    51.11;
                     51.12;
                     51.23
-        11-11-1975  33.20—
                     33.28
-        1-10-1980   32.40—
                     32.51
-        11-12-1981  114.01—
                     114.20
-        12-10-1981  TSO Table I
-        6-9-1983    Ch. 76, Sch. I
-        10-13-1983  Ch. 76, Sch. I
-        2-13-1986   TSO Table I
-        10-9-1986   112.01—
                     112.10
-        7-13-1989   96.02;
                     96.03
-        10-11-1990  Ch. 76, Sch. I
-        1-14-1991   Ch. 75, Sch. II
-        2-14-1991   Ch. 75, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 76, Sch. I
-        5-9-1991    92.30—
                     92.45
-        10-10-1991  70.31;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VII
-        11-14-1991  Ch. 75, Sch. II;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                     151.01;
                     151.02;
                     151.15—
                     151.23;
-        9-8-1994    151.30—
                     151.33;
                     151.35—
                     151.38;
                     151.99
                     152.01—
-        9-8-1994    152.12;
                     152.99
-        10-13-1994  34.01
-        12-14-1995  130.50—
                     130.52
-        4-10-1997   71.02;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
27       6-11-1998   TSO Table II
-        1-14-1999   Ch. 75, Sch. I
-        7-13-2000   96.02
-        8-10-2000   Ch. 76, Sch. III
-        9-14-2000   50.01,
                     130.03
-        11-9-2000   33.04
-        5-17-2001   71.60;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. I
-        6-14-2001   31.03
-        2-14-2002   71.62;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
                     32.41;
                     32.43;
-        12-12-2002  32.44;
                     92.30—
                     92.45
-        6-12-2003   71.62;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. II
-        6-10-2004   92.01—
                     92.03
                     131.01—
-        8-12-2004   131.07;
                     131.99
-        9-9-2004    35.01;
                     35.02
-        10-14-2004  71.01;
                     Ch. 75, Sch. VI
                     50.03—
CR5187   4-13-2006   50.06;
                     50.09;
                     50.10
CR51-276 1-11-2007   96.02
CR51-307 3-8-2007    33.03
                     30.01;
                     30.15;
                     30.18;
                     30.41;
-        4-10-2008   32.49;
                     32.51;
                     35.01;
                     35.02;
                     50.03;
                     51.01
                     92.01—
                     92.04;
-        9-18-2008   92.31;
                     92.32;
                     92.36;
                     92.38
-        12-11-2008  92.01
-        5-7-2009    130.05
                     90.01—
-        1-15-2010   90.12;
                     90.99
                    
 
