COLUMBUS, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-10 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 3-20-2025; and
State legislation current through 2024 North Carolina Legislative Service,
Pamphlet No. 3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 1985
RATIFIED BILL
CHAPTER 46
HOUSE BILL 179
AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF COLUMBUS.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
Section 1. The Charter of the Town of Columbus is hereby revised and
consolidated to read as follows:
"THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF COLUMBUS
"ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS AND BOUNDARIES
"Section 1.1. Incorporation.
   The Town of Columbus, North Carolina, in Polk County, and the inhabitants
thereof, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate, under the
name and style of the 'Town of Columbus,' hereinafter at times referred to as
the 'Town'.
"Section 1.2. Powers.
   The Town shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges and immunities which are now, or hereafter may be, conferred, either
expressly or by implication, upon the Town of Columbus specifically, or upon
municipal corporations generally, or by this Charter, by the North Carolina
Constitution, or by general or local law.
"Section 1.3. Corporate Limits.
   The corporate limits shall be those existing at the time of ratification of
this Charter, as the same are set forth on the official map of the Town, and as
the same may be altered from time to time in accordance with law. An official
map of the Town, showing the current boundaries, shall be maintained
permanently in the office of the Town Clerk, and shall be available for public
inspection. Immediately upon appropriate changes to the official map of the
Town shall be made, and copies shall be filed in the offices of the Secretary
of State, the Polk County Register of Deeds and the appropriate board of
elections.
"ARTICLE II. MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
"Section 2.1. Governing Body.
   The Mayor and Town Council shall be the governing body of the Town. On
behalf of the Town, and in accordance with applicable provisions of the General
Statutes, the Mayor and the Council may provide for the exercise of all
municipal powers, and shall be charged with the general government of the Town.
"Section 2.2. Town Council: Composition: Terms of Office.
   The Council shall be composed of four members who shall be elected in the
manner provided by Article III of this Charter.
"Section 2.3. Mayor: Term of Office: Duties.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a term of two years, or until his or her
successor is elected and qualified; shall be the official head of the Town
government and preside at all meetings of the Council; shall have the right to
vote only when there is an equal division on any question or matter before the
Council; and shall exercise the powers and duties conferred by law or as
directed by the Council.
"Section 2.4. Mayor Pro Tempore.
   The Council shall elect one of its members as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform
the duties of the Mayor during his or her absence or disability, in accordance
with applicable provisions of the General Statutes. The Mayor Pro Tempore shall
serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the other members of the Council.
"Section 2.5. Meetings of the Council.
   In accordance with applicable provisions of the General Statutes, the
Council shall establish a suitable time and place for its regular meetings.
Special and emergency meetings may be held as provided in the General Statutes.
"Section 2.6. Ordinances and Resolutions.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading, and proving of Town ordinances
and resolutions shall be in accordance with applicable provisions of the
General Statutes. The ayes and nays shall be taken upon all ordinances and
resolutions and entered upon the minutes of the Council.
"Section 2.7. Voting Requirements: Quorum.
   Official actions of the Council and all votes shall be taken in accordance
with applicable voting and quorum provisions of the General Statutes,
particularly G.S. 160A-74 and G.S. 160A-75.
"Section 2.8. Qualifications for Office: Vacancies: Compensation.
   The compensation of Council members, the filling of vacancies on the Council
and the qualifications of Council members shall be in accordance with
applicable provisions of the General Statutes.
"ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS"
"Section 3.1. Regular Municipal Elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd-numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina. The
Mayor and Council members shall be elected by the voters of the Town on an at-
large basis, by the nonpartisan plurality method of election.
"Section 3.2. Election of the Council Members.
   The Council members serving on the date of ratification of this Charter may
continue to serve until expiration of their terms, or until their successors
are elected and qualified. Council members shall continue to be elected and to
serve on a staggered term system. At each such election the candidate receiving
the highest number of votes shall serve for a term of four years, and the
candidate receiving the next highest number of votes shall serve for a period
of two years.
"Section 3.3. Election of the Mayor.
   The Mayor serving on the date of ratification of this Charter may continue
to serve until the expiration of his or her term, or until a successor is
elected and qualified. At the regular municipal election in 1985 and every two
years thereafter, there shall be elected a Mayor to serve as provided in
Article II of this Charter.
"Section 3.4. Special Elections and Referendums.
   Special elections and referendums may be held only as provided in applicable
provisions of the General Statutes or local acts.
"ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
"Section 4.1. Form of Government.
   The Town shall operate under the Council-Manager form of Government, in
accordance with Part 2 of Article 7, General Statutes Chapter 160A.
"Section 4.2. Town Clerk.
   The Council shall appoint a Town Clerk to keep a journal of the proceedings
of the Council; to maintain in a safe place all records and documents
concerning the affairs of the Town; to be the chief administrative official for
the Town; and to perform such other duties required by law or as the Council
may direct.
"Section 4.3 Town Tax Collector.
   The Council shall appoint a Tax Collector to collect all taxes, licenses,
fees and other monies owed to the Town, subject to the applicable provisions of
the General Statutes, this Charter and Town ordinances. The Tax Collector shall
diligently comply with and enforce all the laws of North Carolina concerning
collection of municipal taxes.
"Section 4.4. Town Attorney.
   The Town Council shall appoint a Town Attorney licensed to practice law in
North Carolina. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to prosecute and
defend suits against the Town; to advise the Mayor, Council and other Town
officials with respect to the affairs of the Town; to draft all legal documents
relating to the affairs of the Town; to review all agreements, contracts,
franchises and other instruments concerning the Town; to attend meetings of the
Council; and to perform other duties required by law or as the Council may
direct.
"Section 4.5. Other Administrative Officers and Employees.
   Consistent with applicable provisions of the General Statutes, the Council
shall appoint a Budget Officer and a Finance Officer, and may appoint other
officers and employees, and generally organize the Town government in order to
promote the orderly and efficient administration of the affairs of the Town."
Sec. 2. The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the Town of
Columbus and to consolidate herein certain acts concerning the property,
affairs and government of the Town. It is intended to continue without
interruption those provisions of prior acts, which are expressly consolidated
into this act, so that all rights and liabilities, which have accrued, are
preserved and may be enforced.
Sec. 3. This act shall not be deemed to repeal, modify or affect any of the
following acts, portions of acts or amendments thereto, whether or not such
acts are expressly set forth herein:
      1.   Any acts concerning the property, affairs or government of public
schools in the Town of Columbus.
      2.   Any acts validating, confirming, approving or legalizing official
proceedings, actions, contracts or obligations of any kind.
Sec. 4. The following acts or portions of acts, having served the purposes for
which they were enacted or having been consolidated into this act, are hereby
repealed:
Chapter 124, Private Laws of 1856-57
Chapter 354, Private Laws of 1895
Chapter 208, Private Laws of 1897
Chapter 326, Private Laws of 1903
Sections 1 through 3 of Chapter 172, Private Laws of 1933
Chapter 281, Session Laws of 1957
Section 2 of Chapter 719, Session Laws of 1959
Section 2 of Chapter 100, Session Laws of 1961
Chapter 376, Session Laws of 1967
Chapter 663, Session Laws of 1967
Chapter 208, Session Laws of 1981.
Sec. 5. No provision of this act is intended nor shall be construed to affect
any rights or interests (whether public or private):
      1.   Now vested or accrued, in whole or in part, the validity of which
might be sustained or preserved by reference to any provisions of law repealed
by this act.
      2.   Derived from, or which might be sustained or preserved in reliance
upon, action previously taken pursuant to preserved in reliance upon, action
previously taken pursuant to or within the scope of any provisions of law
repealed by this act.
Sec. 6. No law previously repealed expressly or by implication, and no law
granting authority, which has been exhausted, shall be construed to be revived
by any provision of this act.
Sec. 7. All existing ordinances and resolutions of the Town of Columbus and all
existing rules or regulations of departments or agencies of the Town not
inconsistent with the provisions of this act shall continue in full force and
effect until repealed, modified or amended.
Sec. 8. No action or proceeding of any nature (whether civil or criminal,
judicial or administrative, or otherwise) pending on the effective date of this
act by or against the Town or any of its departments or agencies shall be
abated or otherwise affected by the ratification of this act.
Sec. 9. If any provision of this act or the application thereof to any person
or circumstance is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this act which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act
are declared to be severable.
Sec. 10. Whenever a reference is made in this act to a particular provision of
the General Statutes, and such provision is later amended, repealed, superseded
or recodified, the reference shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended to
refer to the amended General Statute, or to the General Statute which most
clearly corresponds to the statutory provision which is repealed, superseded or
recodified. Sec.11. This act is effective upon ratification. In the General
Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 29th day of March 1985.
Robert B. Jordan III
President of the Senate
Liston B. Ramsey
Speaker of the House of Representatives
Section 1. Pursuant to G.S. 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the Town of
Columbus, as set forth in Chapter 46 of the 1985 Session Laws of North
Carolina, as amended, is hereby further amended to provide that the Town
Council shall hereafter consist of four members, as follows:
      1.   By amending Article II, Section 2.2 by changing "three" to "four",
so that Section 2.2. Town council: Composition; Terms of Office, would
thereafter read, "The Council shall be composed of four members who shall be
elected in the manner provided by Article III of this Charter"; and
      2.   By amending Article III, Section 3.2 by changing the second word
"candidate" in the third sentence, to "candidates" and preceding said word
"candidates" in the third sentence by inserting "two" immediately prior
thereto, so that the third sentence of Section 3.2 Election of the Council
Members would thereafter read, "At each such election the candidate receiving
the highest number of votes shall serve for a term of four years, and the two
candidates receiving the next highest number of votes shall serve for a period
of two years."
Section 2. The Town Clerk shall cause a notice to be duly published, stating
that an ordinance amending the Charter to change the number of members of the
Town Council from 3 to 4 has been adopted. Subject to any referendum petitioned
for and conducted pursuant to G.S. 160A-103, this ordinance shall be in full
force and effect from and after May 1, 2003.
Adopted this the 18th day of February 2003.
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF COLUMBUS TO ADOPT THE COUNCIL-
MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT
BE IT ORDAINED by the Town Council of the Town of Columbus:
Section 1. Pursuant to G.S. 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the Town of
Columbus, as set forth in Chapter 46 of the 1985 Session Laws of North
Carolina, as amended, is hereby further amended to provide that the town shall
operate under the council-manager form of government in accordance with Part 2
of Article 7 of G.S. Chapter 160A and any charter provisions not in conflict
therewith.
Section 2. The Town Clerk shall cause a notice to be duly published, stating
that an ordinance amending the charter to adopt the council-manager form of
government has been adopted. Subject to any referendum petitioned for and
conducted pursuant to G.S. 160A-103, this ordinance shall be in full force and
effect from and after July 15, 2004.
Adopted this 27th day of July 2004.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Columbus shall be
designated as the Code of Columbus, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the Town of Columbus, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and Council, or governing body, of the Town of
Columbus, North Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Polk, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES. The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER. Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, includes any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well
as the past and present.
      TOWN. The Town of Columbus, in the County of Polk, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. One designated by the Council.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: "Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Columbus, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows...." The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: "The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Columbus, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:...." The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, articles, chapters or provisions desired to be repealed
must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter number, as the
case may be.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and all amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a "statutory reference" following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
"(Prior Code, §       )." The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
   Violation of local ordinances misdemeanor, see G.S. § 14-4(a)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
         
31.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Council Provisions
   
30.01   Designation of governing body; election
   
30.02   Oath of office of Mayor and Council members
   
30.03   General duties of Mayor
   
30.04   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
30.05   Filling of vacancies on Council
   
30.06   Created by removal of member's residence
   
30.07   Special committees of the Council
   
30.08   Appointment of boards, commissions and the like
Officials and Employees
   
30.20   Finance Director; office created; appointment
   
30.21   Finance Director; duties
   
30.22   Chief of Police; office created; appointment
   
30.23   Fire Department
   
30.24   Fire Inspector
   
30.25   Causing removal of fire hazards
   
30.26   Investigation; record and report of fires
   
30.27   Public Works Director; office created; appointment
   
30.28   Public Works Director; duties
   
30.29   Authority to declare state of emergency
Rules of Procedure for the Town Council
   
30.40   Regular meetings
   
30.41   Special, emergency, and recessed meetings
   
30.42   Organizational meeting
   
30.43   Agenda
   
30.44   Public address to the Council
   
30.45   Order of business
   
30.46   Mayor; office of
   
30.47   Mayor Pro Tempore; office of
   
30.48   When the presiding officer is in active debate
   
30.49   Action by Council; motions; debate; ratification
   
30.50   Procedural motions
   
30.51   Motions; renewal and withdrawal
   
30.52   Duty to vote
   
30.53   Ordinances; introduction and adoption
   
30.54   Closed sessions
   
30.55   Quorum
   
30.56   Public hearings
   
30.57   Minutes
   
30.58   Appointments
   
30.59   Committees and boards
   
30.60   Amendment of the rules
Officers Appointed by Council
   
30.75   Town Manager; appointment; qualifications
   
30.76   Term of office and removal of Town Manager
   
30.77   Absence or disability of Town Manager
   
30.78   General duties of Town Manager
   
30.79   Responsibility to Council; authority as to appointment and removal of
officers and employees; generally
   
30.80   Council not to interfere with appointments; removals and the like
   
30.81   Town Clerk; appointment
   
30.82   Duties of Town Clerk
   
30.83   Town Attorney; appointment
   
30.84   Duties of Town Attorney
   
30.85   Tax Collector; appointment
GENERAL COUNCIL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 DESIGNATION OF GOVERNING BODY; ELECTION.
   The governing body of the town shall consist of a Mayor and a Town Council
of four members, who shall be elected in accordance with the provisions of law.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-1)
§ 30.02 OATH OF OFFICE OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Mayor-elect and each Council member-elect shall, before entering upon
the duties of office, take and subscribe, before some person lawfully entitled
to administer oaths, an oath or affirmation to support the Constitution of the
United States and the Constitution of the state and the laws made pursuant
thereto, and to faithfully perform the duties of office, which oath or
affirmation shall be entered upon the minutes of the Council subscribed as
aforesaid and attested by the officer administering the same.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-2)
Statutory reference:
   Oath of office, see G.S. § 160A-61
§ 30.03 GENERAL DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to:
   (A)   Keep informed as to the town's business;
   (B)   Sign all paper writings authorized by the Council; and
   (C)   Make recommendations as the official deems necessary or expedient to
the Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-3)
Statutory reference:
   General powers of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-67
§ 30.04 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   The Mayor Pro Tempore is the candidate receiving the highest number of votes
in the general election.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-4)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor pro tempore, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.05 FILLING OF VACANCIES ON COUNCIL.
   Any vacancy caused by the death, resignation or disqualification of a member
of the Council shall be filled by a majority vote of the Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-5)
Statutory reference:
   Vacancies, see G.S. § 160A-63
§ 30.06 CREATED BY REMOVAL OF MEMBER'S RESIDENCE.
    If any member of the Council shall move the member's residence from the
town, the member's office shall at once be declared vacant and shall be filled
as provided by §
30.05 above.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-6)
Cross-reference:
   Right of Mayor to vote, see §
30.48
§ 30.07 SPECIAL COMMITTEES OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Mayor shall appoint special committees of the Council, and outline their
powers and duties, as the official deems necessary to properly care for the
affairs of the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-7)
§ 30.08 APPOINTMENT OF BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND THE LIKE.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, all appointive town boards,
commissions and authorities shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-8)
Cross-references:
   Duty of Clerk to keep account of proceedings of Council meetings, see §
30.67
   Duty of Town Attorney to attend Council meetings, see § 30.69
OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 30.20 FINANCE DIRECTOR; OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the Office of Finance Director in and for the town.
The Town Manager is also designated as the Finance Director. The Town Manager
may appoint an Assistant Finance Director or designee to carry out the duties
of the Finance Director.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-11)
Statutory reference:
   Finance officer, see G.S. § 159-24
§ 30.21 FINANCE DIRECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Finance Director or designee shall act as Treasurer of the town and
shall perform all duties as such. The Finance Director shall:
   (A)   Receive and faithfully keep monies which the Director shall receive on
behalf of the town;
   (B)   Keep an accurate account of all moneys deposited with the Director by
the Director and disbursed by the Director for the town;
   (C)   Supply the Commissioners with information as it may require of the
Director relative to finances;
   (D)   Make a monthly report to the Town Council of all receipts and
disbursements of funds of the town;
   (E)   Deposit all moneys daily belonging to the town in such depository as
shall be designated by the Town Council;
   (F)   Honor all orders drawn on the Director, approved by the purchasing
agent, that are presented to the Director;
   (G)   Perform duties as town accountant and as such make a systematic
regular audit of all departments of the town and render a report thereof to the
Town Council and Town Manager. The duties shall further include the supervision
and control of the Tax Collector's office and the Collector for the Water
Department; and
   (H)   Do such other and further acts as the Town Manager may require.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-12)
§ 30.22 CHIEF OF POLICE; OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the Office of the Chief of Police in and for the
town. The Chief of Police shall be appointed by the Town Manager.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-13)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of officers, see G.S. § 160A-148
§ 30.23 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department is a separate entity that operates under its own
by-laws and procedures.
   (B)   It is recognized that the Fire Department provides services to the
town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-15)
§ 30.24 FIRE INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Generally. Subject to supervision by the Town Manager, the Fire
Department shall exercise the functions of Fire Inspector for the town. As
such, the Fire Department designated agent shall have authority to enter all
premises, at a reasonable time, for purpose of inspection.
   (B)   Routine inspections. The Fire Inspector shall make inspections of all
buildings located in the fire limits and annual inspections of all other
buildings located in the town.
   (C)   Inspections upon complaint. The Fire Inspector shall, upon receipt of
a complaint, forthwith inspect any premises complained of as a fire hazard.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-16)
Statutory reference:
   Fires investigated; reports; records, see G.S. § 58-79-1
§ 30.25 CAUSING REMOVAL OF FIRE HAZARDS.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall cause the removal of fire hazards by serving
a proper order on the owner or agent of the premises in question, the order to
state a reasonable time limit.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the order shall be considered a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.26 INVESTIGATION; RECORD AND REPORT OF FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall investigate the causes of fires and shall
keep records of the findings as to origin, location, owner, extent of damage
and injury and amount of insurance carried.
   (B)   These findings must be reported to the State Insurance Commissioner at
regular intervals.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-19)
Statutory reference:
   Fires investigated; reports; records, see G.S. § 58-79-1
§ 30.27 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of Public Works Director.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall be appointed by the Town Manager.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-20)
§ 30.28 PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR; DUTIES.
   The Public Works Director shall supervise all activities assigned to the
Public Works Department by the Town Manager and report on such activities to
the Town Council through the Town Manager, at such times as directed by the
Manager.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-21)
Cross-reference:
   Public works in general, see Title V
§ 30.29 AUTHORITY TO DECLARE STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The presiding Mayor is empowered to proclaim a state of emergency.
   (B)   Subsequent to the declaration to state of emergency, the Mayor is
authorized to permit, prohibit and restrict:
      (1)   Movements of people in public places;
      (2)   The operation of offices, building establishments and other places
to and from which people may travel or at which they may congregate;
      (3)   Restrict the possession, transportation, sale, purchase and
consumption of alcoholic beverages;
      (4)   Restrict the possession, transportation, sale, purchase, storage
and use of dangerous weapons and substance, and gasoline; and
      (5)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be
reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property.
   (C)   In the absence of the Mayor, the authority will rest with the Mayor
Pro Tempore.
   (D)   The Mayor will generally be guided by:
      (1)   G.S. § 14-288.12;
      (2)   G.S. § 160A-174(a);
      (3)   G.S. § 14-288.16; and
      (4)   G.S. § 14-288.17.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-22)
RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE TOWN COUNCIL
§ 30.40 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Town Council ("Council") shall hold a regular meeting on the third
Thursday of each month, except that if a regular meeting day is a legal
holiday, the meeting shall be held on the next business day. The meeting shall
be held at the Town of Columbus Council Chambers and shall begin at 5:15 p.m. A
copy of the Council's current meeting schedule shall be filed with the Town
Clerk.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-19-2015; Am. Ord.
2015-07, passed 10-15-2015; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Regular and special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.41 SPECIAL, EMERGENCY, AND RECESSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings.
      (1)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or any two members of the Council
may at any time call a special Council meeting by signing a written notice
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered. At
least 48 hours before a special meeting called in this manner, written notice
of the meeting stating its time and place and the subjects to be considered
shall be:
         (a)   Delivered to the Mayor and each Council member or left at his or
her usual dwelling place;
         (b)   Posted on the Council's principal bulletin board, or if none, at
the door of the Council's usual meeting room;
         (c)   Mailed or delivered to each newspaper, wire service, radio
station, television station, and person who has filed a written request for
notice with the Town Clerk. Only those items of business specified in the
notice may be transacted at a special meeting called in this manner, unless all
members are present or have signed a written waiver of notice. Even in such a
case, the Council shall only discuss or transact items of business not
specified in the notice if it determines in good faith at the meeting that it
is essential to discuss or act on the item immediately; and
         (d)   Posted on the town's website prior to the scheduled time of the
meeting.
      (2)   A special meeting may also be called or scheduled by vote of the
Council in open session during another duly called meeting. The motion or
resolution calling or scheduling the special meeting shall specify its time,
place, and purpose. At least 48 hours before a special meeting called in this
manner, notice of the time, place, and purpose of the meeting shall be:
         (a)   Posted on the Council's principal bulletin board, or if none, at
the door of the Council's usual meeting room;
         (b)   Mailed or delivered to each newspaper, wire service, radio
station, television station, and person who has filed a written request for
notice with the Town Clerk. The notice shall also be mailed or delivered at
least 48 hours before the meeting to each Council member not present at the
meeting at which the special meeting was called or scheduled and to the Mayor
if he or she was not present at that meeting. Only those items of business
specified in the notice may be discussed or transacted at a special meeting
called in this manner, unless all members are present or those not present have
signed a written waiver of notice, and the Council determines in good faith at
the meeting that it is essential to discuss or act on the item immediately; and
         (c)   Posted on the town's website prior to the scheduled time of the
meeting.
   (B)   Emergency meetings.
      (1)   Emergency meetings of the Town Council may be called only because
of generally unexpected circumstances that require immediate consideration by
the Council. Only business connected with the emergency may be considered at an
emergency meeting. One of the following two procedures must be followed to call
an emergency meeting of the Council:
         (a)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, or any two members of the
Council may at any time call an emergency Council meeting by signing a written
notice stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be
considered. The notice shall be delivered to the Mayor and each Council member
or left at his or her usual dwelling place at least six hours before the
meeting.
         (b)   An emergency meeting may be held at any time when the Mayor and
all members of the Council are present and consent thereto, or when those not
present have signed a written waiver of notice, but only in either case if the
Council complies with the notice provisions of division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Notice of an emergency meeting under divisions (B)(l)(a) or (B)(l)
(b) shall be given to each local newspaper, local wire service, local radio
station, and local television station that has filed a written emergency
meeting notice request, which includes the newspaper's, wire services's, or
station's telephone number, with the Town Clerk. This notice shall be given
either by telephone or by the same method used to notify the Mayor and the
Council members and shall be given at the expense of the party notified.
   (C)   Recessed meetings. A properly called regular, special, or emergency
meeting may be recessed to a time and place certain by a procedural motion made
and adopted as provided in §
30.50(B)(2), in open session during the regular, special, or emergency meeting.
The motion shall state the time and place when the meeting will reconvene.
Notice of the recessed session shall be posted on the town's website prior to
the scheduled time of the session. No further notice need be given of a
recessed session of a properly called regular, special, or emergency meeting.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.42 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING.
   On the date and at the time of the first regular meeting in December
following a general election in which Council members are elected, or at an
earlier date, if any, set by the incumbent Council, the newly elected members
shall take and subscribe the oath of office as the first order of new business.
As the second order of new business, the candidate receiving the highest number
of votes in the general election held two years beforehand will be named Mayor
Pro Tempore. This organizational meeting shall not be held before the municipal
election results are officially determined, certified, and published in
accordance with G.S. Ch. 163, Subchapter 9.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.43 AGENDA.
   (A)   Proposed agenda. The Town Clerk shall prepare a proposed agenda for
each meeting. A request to have an item of business placed on the agenda must
be received at least seven calendar days before the meeting, except that
requests by a Council member or the Town Manager may be made on shorter time. A
copy of all proposed ordinances shall be attached to the proposed agenda. An
agenda package shall be prepared that includes, for each item of business
placed on the proposed agenda, as much background information on the subject as
is available and feasible to reproduce. Each Council member shall receive a
copy of the proposed agenda and the agenda package and they shall be available
for public inspection and distribution or copying when they are distributed to
the Council members.
   (B)   Adoption of the agenda.
      (1)   As its first order of business at each meeting, the Council shall,
as specified in §
30.45, discuss and revise the proposed agenda and adopt an agenda for the
meeting. If items are proposed to be added to the agenda of a meeting, the
Council may, by majority vote, require that written copies of particular
documents connected with the items be made available at the meeting to all
Council members.
      (2)   The Council may, by majority vote, add items to or subtract items
from the proposed agenda, except that:
         (a)   The Council may not subtract items from the proposed agenda
stated in the notice of a special meeting called by the Mayor, Mayor Pro
Tempore, or two Council members, unless those calling the meeting consent to
the deletion;
         (b)   The Council may not add items to the proposed agenda stated in
the notice of a special meeting called by the Mayor, Mayor Pro Tempore, or two
Council members, unless all members are present, or those who are absent sign a
written waiver of notice; and
         (c)   Only business connected with the emergency may be considered at
an emergency meeting. The Council may add items to the proposed agenda of a
special meeting only if it determines in good faith at the meeting that it is
essential to discuss or act on the item immediately.
      (3)   The Council may designate certain agenda items "for discussion and
possible action." This designation means that the Council intends to discuss
the general subject area of that agenda item before making any motion
concerning that item.
   (C)   Consent agenda. The Council may designate a part of the agenda as the
consent agenda. Items shall be placed on the consent agenda by those preparing
the proposed agenda if they are judged to be noncontroversial and routine. Any
member may remove an item from the consent agenda and place it on the regular
agenda while the agenda is being discussed and revised prior to its adoption at
the beginning of the meeting. All items on the consent agenda shall be voted on
and adopted by a single motion, with the minutes reflecting the motion and vote
on each item.
   (D)   Open meetings requirements. The Council shall not deliberate, vote, or
otherwise take action on any matter by reference to a letter, number, or other
designation, or other secret device or method, with the intention of making it
impossible for persons attending a meeting of the Council to understand what is
being deliberated, voted, or acted on. The Council may, however, deliberate,
vote, or otherwise take action by reference to an agenda, if copies of the
agenda sufficiently worded to enable the public to understand what is being
deliberated, voted, or acted on are available for public inspection at the
meeting.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.44 PUBLIC ADDRESS TO THE COUNCIL.
   Any individual or group who wishes to address the Council shall make a
request to be on the agenda to the Town Clerk. However, the Council shall
determine at the meeting whether it will hear the individual or group.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.45 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Items shall be placed on the agenda according to the order of
business. The order of business for each regular meeting shall be as follows:
      (1)   Invocation and Pledge of Allegiance;
      (2)   Public Comment;
      (3)   Revision and adoption of the proposed agenda;
      (4)   Adoption of the consent agenda;
      (5)   Public hearings, if any;
      (6)   Action items; and
      (7)   Reports from Council, Planning Board, Manager, Departments and
other town staff.
   (B)   By general consent of the Council, items may be considered out of
order. By majority vote of Council, new agenda items may be added at any time
during the meeting.
   (C)   Public comment shall be as follows: A signup sheet will be provided in
the meeting room prior to the meeting's call to order. Those desiring to speak
will sign their name on the signup sheet. At the time of public comments, the
Mayor will call out the names of those who have signed the signup sheet to
speak, and at that time the speaker will approach the podium, give their full
name, and may speak for up to three minutes. The Mayor, in his or her
discretion, may extend the time allotted for each speaker.
   (D)   The public may also speak on agenda items during the meeting prior to
any voting by Council should the Mayor elect. If the Mayor elects to allow
public comments prior to voting on any agenda items, the person desiring to
speak on the items shall raise their hand, and if recognized by the Mayor,
approach the podium, announce their full name, and speak for up to three
minutes. The Mayor, in his or her discretion, may extend the time allotted for
each speaker and may to allow citizens to address the Council more than one
time on any agenda item.
   (E)   In the event any citizen unduly interrupts the business of the
meeting, fails to comply with these rules of procedure, or continues to speak
after the time allotted when the time is not extended by the Mayor, the Mayor
may request the Chief of Police or a police officer to escort the citizen from
the premises.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-19-2015; Am. Ord.
2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.46 MAYOR; OFFICE OF.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council but shall have
the right to vote only when there is a tie. In order to address the Council, a
member must be recognized by the Mayor.
   (B)   The Mayor or other presiding officer shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To rule motions in or out of order, including any motion patently
offered for obstructive or dilatory purposes;
      (2)   To determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule on objections from
other members on this ground;
      (3)   To entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or
procedure;
      (4)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
      (5)   To adjourn in an emergency.
   (C)   A decision by the presiding officer under divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), or
(B)(3) may be appealed to the Council upon motion of any member, pursuant to §
30.50(B)(1). Such a motion is in order immediately after a decision under
divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), or (B)(3) is announced and at no other time. The
member making the motion need not be recognized by the presiding officer, and
the motion if timely made may not be ruled out of order.
   (D)   A Mayor or other presiding officer may adjourn without the Council's
vote or appeal in an emergency, and he or she may also call a brief recess
without a vote at any time.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.47 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE; OFFICE OF.
   A Council member who serves as Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to vote
on all matters and shall be considered a Council member for all purposes,
including the determination of whether a quorum is present. In the Mayor's
absence, the Council may confer on the Mayor Pro Tempore any of the Mayor's
powers and duties. If the Mayor should become physically or mentally unable to
perform the duties of his or her office, the Council may by unanimous vote
declare that the Mayor is incapacitated and confer any of the Mayor's powers
and duties on the Mayor Pro Tempore. When the Mayor declares that he or she is
no longer incapacitated, and a majority of the Council concurs, the Mayor shall
resume the exercise of his or her powers and duties. If both the Mayor and
Mayor Pro Tempore are absent from a meeting, the Council may elect from among
its members a temporary chairman to preside at the meeting.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.48 WHEN THE PRESIDING OFFICER IS IN ACTIVE DEBATE.
   If the Mayor or other presiding officer becomes actively engaged in debate
on a particular proposal, he or she shall designate another Council member to
preside over the debate. The Mayor or other presiding officer shall resume
presiding as soon as action on the matter is concluded.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.49 ACTION BY COUNCIL; MOTIONS; DEBATE; RATIFICATION.
   (A)   Action by the Council. The Council shall proceed by motion, except as
otherwise provided for in §§
30.43 and
30.58. Any member may make a motion.
   (B)   Second required. Each motion requires a second.
   (C)   One motion at a time. A member may make only one motion at a time.
   (D)   Substantive motions. A substantive motion is out of order while
another substantive motion is pending.
   (E)   Adoption by majority vote. A motion shall be adopted by a majority of
the votes cast, a quorum as defined in §
30.55 being present, unless otherwise required by these rules or the laws of
North Carolina. A majority is more than half.
   (F)   Voting by written ballot. The Council may choose by majority vote to
use written ballots in voting on a motion. Such ballots shall be signed, and
the minutes of the Council shall show the vote of each member voting. The
ballots shall be available for public inspection in the office of the Town
Clerk immediately following the meeting at which the vote took place and until
the minutes of that meeting are approved, at which time the ballots may be
destroyed.
   (E)   Debate. The Mayor shall state the motion and then open the floor to
debate on it. The Mayor shall preside over the debate according to the
following general principles:
      (1)   The maker of the motion is entitled to speak first;
      (2)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken; and
      (3)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between
proponents and opponents of the measure.
   (G)   Ratification of actions. To the extent permitted by law, the Council
may ratify actions taken on its behalf but without its prior approval. A motion
to ratify is a substantive motion.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.50 PROCEDURAL MOTIONS.
   (A)   Certain motions allowed. In addition to substantive proposals, only
the procedural motions listed in this section, and no others, are in order.
Unless otherwise noted, each motion is debatable, may be amended, and requires
a majority of the votes cast, a quorum being present, for adoption. Procedural
motions are in order while a substantive motion is pending and at other times,
except as otherwise noted.
   (B)   Order of priority of motions. In order of priority (if applicable),
the procedural motions are:
      (1)   Motion 1: To appeal a procedural ruling of the presiding officer. A
decision of the presiding officer ruling a motion in or out of order,
determining whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards of courtesy
in his or her remarks, or entertaining and answering a question of
parliamentary law or procedure may be appealed to the Council, as specified in
§
30.46. This appeal is in order immediately after such a decision is announced
and at no other time. The member making the motion need not be recognized by
the presiding officer and the motion, if timely made, may not be ruled out of
order.
      (2)   Motion 2: To adjourn. This motion may be made only at the
conclusion of Council consideration of a pending substantive matter; it may not
interrupt deliberation of a pending matter. A motion to recess to a time and
place certain shall also comply with the requirements of §
30.41(C).
      (3)   Motion 3: To take a brief recess.
      (4)   Motion 4: Call to follow the agenda. The motion must be made at the
first reasonable opportunity, or the right to make it is waived for the out-of-
order item in question.
      (5)   Motion 5: To suspend the rules. The Council may not suspend
provisions of the rules that state requirements imposed by law on the Council.
For adoption, the motion requires a vote equal to two-thirds of the actual
membership of the Council, excluding the Mayor, unless he or she may vote in
all cases, and vacant seats.
      (6)   Motion 6: To go into closed session. The Council may go into closed
session only for one or more of the permissible purposes listed in G.S. § 143-
318.11(a). The motion to go into closed session shall cite one or more of these
purposes and shall be adopted at an open meeting. A motion based on G.S. § 143-
318.11(a)(1) shall also state the name or citation of the law that renders the
information to be discussed privileged or confidential. A motion based on G.S.
§ 143-318(a)(3) shall identify the parties in each existing lawsuit concerning
which the Council expects to receive advice during the closed session, if in
fact such advice is to be received.
      (7)   Motion 7: To leave closed session.
      (8)   Motion 8: To divide a complex motion and consider it by paragraph.
The motion is in order whenever a member wishes to consider and vote on
subparts of a complex motion separately.
      (9)   Motion 9: To defer consideration. The Council may defer a
substantive motion for later consideration at an unspecified time. A
substantive motion the consideration of which has been deferred expires 100
days thereafter unless a motion to revive consideration is adopted. If
consideration of a motion has been deferred, a new motion with the same effect
cannot be introduced while the deferred motion remains pending (has not
expired). A member who wishes to revisit the matter during that time must take
action to revive consideration of the original motion (see §
30.50(B)(14)), or else move to suspend the rules (see §
30.50(B)(5)).
      (10)   Motion 10: Motion for the previous question. The motion is not in
order until there have been at least 20 minutes of debate, and every member has
had an opportunity to speak once.
      (11)   Motion 11: To postpone to a certain time or day. If consideration
of a motion has been postponed, a new motion with the same effect cannot be
introduced while the postponed motion remains pending. A member who wishes to
revisit the matter must either wait until the specified time, or move to
suspend the rules (see §
30.50(B)(5)).
      (12)   Motion 12: To refer a motion to a committee. The Council may vote
to refer a substantive motion to a committee for its study and recommendations.
Sixty days or more after a substantive motion has been referred to a committee,
the introducer of the substantive motion may compel consideration of the
measure by the entire Council, whether or not the committee has reported the
matter to the Council.
      (13)   Motion 13: To amend. (a) An amendment to a motion must be
pertinent to the subject matter of the motion. An amendment is improper if
adoption of the motion with that amendment added would have the same effect as
rejection of the original motion. A proposal to substitute completely different
wording for a motion or an amendment shall be treated as a motion to amend. (b)
A motion may be amended, and that amendment may be amended, but no further
amendments may be made until the last-offered amendment is disposed of by a
vote. (c) Any amendment to a proposed ordinance, order, policy, or resolution
shall be reduced to writing before the vote on the amendment.
      (14)   Motion 14: To revive consideration. The Council may vote to revive
consideration of any substantive motion earlier deferred by adoption of §
30.50(B)(9). The motion is in order at any time within 100 days after the day
of a vote to defer consideration. A substantive motion on which consideration
has been deferred expires 100 days after the deferral unless a motion to revive
consideration is adopted.
      (15)   Motion 15: To reconsider. The Council may vote to reconsider its
action on a matter. The motion to do so must be made by a member who voted with
the prevailing side (the majority side except in the case of a tie; in that
case the "nos" prevail) and at the meeting during which the original vote was
taken, including any continuation of that meeting through recess to a time and
place certain. The motion cannot interrupt deliberation on a pending matter,
but is in order at any time before final adjournment of the meeting.
      (16)   Motion 16: To rescind or repeal. The Council may vote to rescind
actions it has previously taken or to repeal items that it has previously
adopted. The motion is not in order if rescission or repeal of an action is
forbidden by law.
      (17)   Motion 17: To prevent reintroduction for six months. The motion
shall be in order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and
at no other time. The motion requires for adoption a vote equal to two-thirds
of the actual membership of the Council excluding the Mayor, unless he or she
may vote in all cases, and vacant seats. If adopted, the restriction imposed by
the motion remains in effect for six months or until the next organizational
meeting of the Council, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.51 MOTIONS; RENEWAL AND WITHDRAWAL.
   (A)   Renewal of motion. A motion that is defeated may be renewed at any
later meeting unless a motion to prevent reintroduction has been adopted.
   (B)   Withdrawal of motion. A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at
any time before it is amended or before the presiding officer puts the motion
to a vote, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.52 DUTY TO VOTE.
   Every member must vote unless excused by the remaining members according to
law. A member who wishes to be excused from voting shall so inform the
presiding officer, who shall take a vote of the remaining members. No member
shall be excused from voting except upon matters involving the consideration of
his or her own financial interest or official conduct. In all other cases, a
failure to vote by a member who is physically present in the Council chamber,
or who has withdrawn without being excused by a majority vote of the remaining
members present, shall be recorded as an affirmative vote.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.53 ORDINANCES; INTRODUCTION AND ADOPTION.
   (A)   Introduction of ordinances. A proposed ordinance shall be deemed to be
introduced on the date the subject matter is first voted on by the Council.
   (B)   Adoption of ordinances and approval of contracts.
      (1)   Generally. An affirmative vote equal to a majority of all the
members of the Council not excused from voting on the question in issue
(including the Mayor's vote in case of an equal division) shall be required to
adopt an ordinance, to take any action that has the effect of an ordinance, or
to make, ratify, or authorize any contract on behalf of the town. In addition,
no ordinance or action that has the effect of an ordinance may be finally
adopted on the date on which it is introduced except by an affirmative vote
equal to or greater than two-thirds of all the actual membership of the
Council, excluding vacant seats, and not including the Mayor unless he or she
has the right to vote on all questions before the Council. No ordinance shall
be adopted unless it has been reduced to writing before a vote on adoption is
taken, although an ordinance already in writing may be adopted with clear
directives to add minor changes.
      (2)   Zoning protest petitions. An affirmative vote equal to three-
fourths of all the members of the Town Council shall be required for an
ordinance making a change in a zoning regulation, restriction, or boundary to
become effective, if a valid protest petition is received in accordance with
the requirements set out in G.S. §§ 160A-385(a) and 160A-386. This rule shall
not apply in those cases excepted by G.S. § 160A-385(a).
   (C)   Adoption of the budget ordinance.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of any town charter, general law, or
local act:
         (a)   Any action with respect to the adoption or amendment of the
budget ordinance may be taken at any regular or special meeting of the Council
by a simple majority of those present and voting, a quorum being present;
         (b)   No action taken with respect to the adoption or amendment of the
budget ordinance need be published or is subject to any other procedural
requirement governing the adoption of ordinances or resolutions by the Council;
and
         (c)   The adoption and amendment of the budget ordinance and the levy
of taxes in the budget ordinance are not subject to the provisions of any town
charter or local act concerning initiative or referendum.
      (2)   During the period beginning with the submission of the budget to
the Council and ending with the adoption of the budget ordinance, the Council
may hold any special meetings that may be necessary to complete its work on the
budget ordinance. Except for the notice requirements of the open meetings law,
which continue to apply, no provision of law concerning the call of special
meetings applies during that period so long as:
         (a)   Each member of the Council has actual notice of each special
meeting called for the purpose of considering the budget; and
         (b)   No business other than consideration of the budget is taken up.
This rule does not allow, and may not be construed to allow, the holding of
closed meetings or executive sessions by the Council if it is otherwise
prohibited by law from holding such a meeting or session.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.54 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   (A)   The Council may hold closed sessions as provided by law. The Council
shall only commence a closed session after a motion to go into closed session
has been made and adopted during an open meeting. The motion shall state the
purpose of the closed session. If the motion is based on G.S. § 143-318.11(a)
(1) (closed session to prevent the disclosure of privileged or confidential
information or information that is not considered a public record), it must
also state the name or citation of the law that renders the information to be
discussed privileged or confidential. If the motion is based on G.S. § 143-
318.11(a)(3) (consultation with attorney; handling or settlement of claims,
judicial actions, or administrative procedures), it must identify the parties
in any existing lawsuits concerning which the public body expects to receive
advice during the closed session. The motion to go into closed session must be
approved by the vote of a majority of those present and voting. The Council
shall terminate the closed session by a majority vote.
   (B)   Only those actions authorized by statute may be taken in closed
session. A motion to adjourn or recess shall not be in order during a closed
session.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.55 QUORUM.
   A majority of the actual membership of the Council plus the Mayor, excluding
vacant seats, shall constitute a quorum. A majority is more than half.
Therefore, since there are four members of Council, plus the Mayor (total of
five), a quorum shall be three members of Council (if in the absence of the
Mayor) or two members of Council (if Mayor is present), assuming there are no
vacant seats. A member who has withdrawn from a meeting without being excused
by majority vote of the remaining members present shall be counted as present
for purposes of determining whether or not a quorum is present.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.56 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Special order. Public hearings required by law or deemed advisable by
the Council shall be organized by a special order (adopted by a majority vote)
that sets forth the subject, date, place, and time of the hearing as well as
any rules regarding the length of time allotted for each speaker, and other
pertinent matters. The rules may include, but are not limited to, rules:
      (1)   Fixing the maximum time allotted to each speaker;
      (2)   Providing for the designation of spokespersons for groups of
persons supporting or opposing the same positions;
      (3)   Providing for the selection of delegates from groups of persons
supporting or opposing the same positions when the number of persons wishing to
attend the hearing exceeds the capacity of the hall (so long as arrangements
are made, in the case of hearings subject to the open meetings law, for those
excluded from the hall to listen to the hearing); and
      (4)   Providing for the maintenance of order and decorum in the conduct
of the hearing.
   (B)   Notice and open meetings law. All notice and other requirements of the
open meetings law applicable to Council meetings shall also apply to public
hearings at which a majority of the Council is present; such a hearing is
considered to be part of a regular or special meeting of the Council. These
requirements also apply to hearings conducted by appointed or elected
committees of the Council, if a majority of the committee is present. A public
hearing for which any notices required by the open meetings law or other
provisions of law have been given may be continued to a time and place certain
without further advertisement. The requirements of §
30.41(C) shall be followed in continuing a hearing at which a majority of the
Council is present.
   (C)   Delegates. The Council may vote to delegate to town staff members, as
appropriate, the authority to schedule, call, and give notice of public
hearings required by law or the Council. The Council shall provide adequate
guidelines to assist staff members in fulfilling this responsibility, and it
shall not delegate the responsibility in cases where the Council itself is
required by law to call, schedule, or give notice of the hearing.
   (D)   Commencement of hearing. At the time appointed for the hearing, the
Mayor or his or her designee shall call the hearing to order and then preside
over it. When the allotted time expires or when no one wishes to speak who has
not done so, the presiding officer shall declare the hearing ended. (E)Quorum
at public hearings. A quorum of the Council shall be required at all public
hearings required by state law. If a quorum is not present at such a hearing,
the hearing shall be continued until the next regular Council meeting without
further advertisement.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.57 MINUTES.
   (A)   Full and accurate minutes of the Council proceedings, including closed
sessions, shall be kept. The Council shall also keep a general account of any
closed session so that a person not in attendance would have a reasonable
understanding of what transpired. These minutes and general accounts shall be
open to inspection of the public, except as otherwise provided in this section.
The exact wording of each motion and the results of each vote shall be recorded
in the minutes, and on the request of any member of the Council, the "ayes" and
"nos" upon any question shall be taken. Members' and other persons' comments
may be included in the minutes if the Council approves.
   (B)   Minutes and general accounts of closed sessions may be sealed by
action of the Council. The sealed minutes and general accounts may be withheld
from public inspection so long as public inspection would frustrate the purpose
of the closed session.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.58 APPOINTMENTS.
   (A)   The Council may consider and make appointments to other bodies,
including its own committees, if any, only in open session. The Council may not
consider or fill a vacancy among its own membership except in open session.
   (B)   Recommendations to Council shall be presented by the Town Clerk to
fill vacancies on established boards and commissions.
   (C)   Council can approve appointments as part of the consent agenda if
there is only one qualified candidate for a vacancy.
   (D)   Where there is more than one qualified candidate, the names submitted
shall be debated. When the debate ends, the Mayor shall call the roll of the
members, and each member shall cast his or her vote. The nominee(s) receiving
the highest number of votes shall be appointed. If more than one appointee is
to be selected, then each member shall have as many votes as there are slots to
be filled. A member must cast all of his or her votes and cast them for
different nominees. The voting shall continue until one nominee receives a
majority of the votes cast, whereupon he or she shall be appointed.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.59 COMMITTEES AND BOARDS.
   (A)   Establishment and appointment. The Council or the Mayor, if the Mayor
is delegated that power by the Council, may establish and appoint members for
such temporary and standing town committees and boards as are needed to help
carry on the work of town government. Any specific provisions of law relating
to particular committees and boards shall be followed.
   (B)   Open meetings law. The requirements of the open meetings law shall
apply to all elected or appointed authorities, boards, commissions, councils,
or other bodies of the town that are composed of two or more members and that
exercise or are authorized to exercise legislative, policy-making, quasi-
judicial, administrative, or advisory functions. However, the law's
requirements shall not apply to a meeting solely among the town's professional
staff or town employees.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
§ 30.60 AMENDMENT OF THE RULES.
   These rules may be amended at any regular meeting or at any properly called
special meeting that includes amendment of the rules as one of the stated
purposes of the meeting, so long as the amendment is consistent with the town
charter, general law, and generally accepted principles of parliamentary
procedure. Adoption of an amendment shall require an affirmative vote equal to
or greater than two-thirds of all the actual membership of the Council,
excluding vacant seats, and not including the Mayor unless he or she has the
right to vote on all questions before the Council.
(Ord. 2008-12, passed 11-20-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 10-15-2015)
OFFICERS APPOINTED BY COUNCIL
§ 30.75 TOWN MANAGER; APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall appoint an officer whose title shall be Town
Manager, and who shall be the chief executive officer and the head of the
administrative branch of the town government.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall be chosen by the Town Council solely on the
basis of the person's executive and administrative qualifications with special
reference to the person's actual experience in, or knowledge of, accepted
practice in respect to the duties of the office as outlined herein.
   (C)   The Town Manager need not be a resident of the town or state.
   (D)   No person elected to membership on the Town Council shall, subsequent
to the election, be eligible for appointment as Town Manager until one year has
elapsed following the expiration of the term for which the Council member was
elected.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-50)
Statutory reference:
   Relevant provisions, see G.S. § 160A-147
§ 30.76 TERM OF OFFICE AND REMOVAL OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall be appointed for an indefinite term, but may be
removed by a majority vote of the members of the Town Council.
   (B)   At least 30 days before the removal may become effective, the Manager
shall be furnished with a formal statement in the form of a resolution passed
by a majority vote of the members of the Council, stating the Council's
intention to remove the person and the reasons therefor.
   (C)   The Manager may reply in writing to the resolution. If so requested by
the Manager, the Council shall fix a time for a public hearing upon the
question of removal and the final resolution removing the Manager shall not be
adopted until the public hearing has been held.
   (D)   Upon passage of a resolution stating the Council's intention to remove
the Manager, the Council may suspend the person from duty, but the person's pay
and benefits shall continue as prescribed in the Manager's employment contract.
   (E)   The action of the Council in removing the Manager shall be final.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-51)
§ 30.77 ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall designate an administrative officer to assume
duties, in case of his or her absence or disability.
   (B)   If there is no Manager under contract, the Council may designate a
qualified administrative officer of the town to perform the duties of the
Manager.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-52)
§ 30.78 GENERAL DUTIES OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Town Manager to act as Director of Finance
and purchasing agent, or designate a town employee as such, and to act as Chief
Conservator of the Peace within the town.
   (B)   The Manager may, however, authorize a head of a department or office
responsible to the Manager to perform these aforementioned duties.
   (C)   The Manager shall:
      (1)   Supervise the administration of the affairs of the town;
      (2)   See that the ordinances of the town and the laws of the state are
enforced;
      (3)   Make recommendations to the Town Council concerning the affairs of
the town as may seem to the Manager desirable;
      (4)   Keep the Town Council advised of the financial condition and the
future needs of the town;
      (5)   Prepare and submit to the Council members the annual budget
estimates;
      (6)   Prepare and submit to the Council reports as may be required by
that body; and
      (7)   Perform other duties as may be required of the Manager by ordinance
or resolution of the Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-53)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Manager, see G.S. § 160A-148
§ 30.79 RESPONSIBILITY TO COUNCIL; AUTHORITY AS TO APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall be responsible to the Town Council for the
proper administration of all affairs of the town placed in the Manager's charge
and, to that end, subject to the provisions of the Charter and except as
otherwise provided herein, the Manager shall have the power to appoint and
remove all officers and employees in the administrative service of the town but
the Manager may authorize the head of a department or office responsible to the
Manager to appoint and remove subordinates in the department or office.
   (B)   Appointments made by, or under the authority of, the Town Manager
shall be on the basis of executive and administrative ability and of the
training and experience of the appointees in the work which they are to
perform.
   (C)   All such appointments shall be without definite term unless for
provisional, temporary or emergency services.
   (D)   Any officer or employee to whom the Town Manager or the head of a
department or office may appoint a successor, may be removed by the Manager or
other appointing officer at any time.
   (E)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the decision of the Manager
or other appointing officer shall be final and there shall be no appeal
therefrom to any other office, body or court whatsoever.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-54)
§ 30.80 COUNCIL NOT TO INTERFERE WITH APPOINTMENTS; REMOVALS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Neither the Town Council, nor any of its committees or members, shall
direct or request the appointment of any person to, or removal from, office by
the Town Manager or any of the Town Manager's subordinates, or in any manner
take part in the appointment or removal of officers and employees in the
administrative service of the town under the jurisdiction of the Town Manager.
   (B)   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Town Council and its members
shall deal with the administrative service solely through the Manager, and
neither the Town Council, nor any member thereof, shall give orders to any
subordinate of the Town Manager, either publicly or privately.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-55)
§ 30.81 TOWN CLERK; APPOINTMENT.
   The Town Manager shall appoint a Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-56)
Cross-reference:
   Officials and employees, generally, see §§
30.20 through
30.29
§ 30.82 DUTIES OF TOWN CLERK.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to act as clerk to the Council and,
as such, keep a complete and accurate account of all proceedings of all
meetings in a book especially provided for this purpose by the Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-57)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Town Clerk, see G.S. § 160A-171
§ 30.83 TOWN ATTORNEY; APPOINTMENT.
   The Town Attorney shall be appointed for an indefinite term, but may be
removed by a majority vote of the members of the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-58; Am. Ord. 2015-02, passed 2-19-2015)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment and duties of Town Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 30.84 DUTIES OF TOWN ATTORNEY.
   It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to perform the following services
for the town:
   (A)   To prosecute suits for and to defend suits against the town;
   (B)   To advise the Mayor, the Town Council and the Town Manager with regard
to matters connected with the town's business;
   (C)   To attend all regular meetings of the Council and, when requested to
do so, attend special meetings;
   (D)   To draw deeds, contracts, bonds, notes and other legal papers as may
be required for the proper conduct of the town's business;
   (E)   To draw all ordinances granting franchises; and
   (F)   To approve all ordinances as to form before their introduction.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-59)
§ 30.85 TAX COLLECTOR; APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The town directs the County Tax Collector to collect all taxes for the
town.
   (B)   The town reserves the right to appoint a Tax Collector to collect
taxes within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   As directed by the Town Council, the Town Manager shall give
reasonable notice to the county as to when its collection services are no
longer required.
   (D)   The Town Manager shall have the power to suspend and remove the Tax
Collector in accordance with general personnel rules, regulations, policies and
ordinances as adopted by the Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2-60)
CHAPTER 31: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
   
31.01   Franchise tax on gross receipts of electric power companies
   
31.02   Room occupancy tax
   
31.03   Local government sales and use tax; distribution
   
31.04   Reimbursement agreements
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 FRANCHISE TAX ON GROSS RECEIPTS OF ELECTRIC POWER COMPANIES.
   (A)   Citation. This section shall be known and may be cited as the "Town of
Columbus's Franchise Tax on Electric Power Ordinance."
   (B)   Definitions. Except as otherwise provided in this section, the
definitions of words, terms and phrases as set forth and/or applied in G.S. Ch.
105, Art. 3 are hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof. Reference
to any provision or provisions in the General Statutes shall include the same
as may be from time to time amended, modified, supplemented, revised or
superceded. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REVENUE ACT. G.S. Ch. 105, Subchapter 1.
      SECRETARY OF REVENUE. The Secretary of Revenue of the State of North
Carolina.
      STATE FRANCHISE TAX. The franchise or privilege tax imposed on an
electric power company engaged in the business of furnishing electricity,
electric lights, current or power as provided in G.S. Ch. 105, Art. 3 entitled
"Franchise Tax."
      STATE FRANCHISE TAX ACT. G.S. Ch. 105, Art. 3.
      TAX COLLECTOR. The department of the town government or the official
agency of the state designated by law and authorized by law to administer the
collection of the tax herein levied.
      TAXPAYER(S). Any electric power company liable for the taxes imposed by
this section.
      TOWN FRANCHISE TAX. The franchise enacted by this section.
   (C)   Ratification of existing permits. All valid and subsisting permits to
do business issued by the Secretary of Revenue pursuant to the Revenue Act,
being G.S. Ch. 105, Subdivision 1, are for the purposes of this section, hereby
ratified, confirmed and adopted in lieu of any requirement for an additional
town permit for the same purpose.
   (D)   Levy of tax. A franchise tax is hereby levied and imposed for the
period(s) designated in division (E) below upon the electric power companies
engaged in the business of furnishing electricity, electric lights, current or
power within the corporate limits of the town. The tax shall be 3.09% of the
companies’ taxable gross receipts from the business of furnishing electricity,
electric lights, current or power. It is intended that taxable gross receipts
hereunder shall be the same as those taxable under the State Franchise Tax Act.
It is recommended that the same tax rate of 3.09% provided in pertinent state
law (the percentage distribution amount for cities) be inserted. It is the
town’s opinion that the restrictions found in pertinent state law apply only
when distributions are being made.
   (E)   Period for which tax due. When a distribution to the town as required
under the State Franchise Tax Act shall not be made, the town franchise tax
shall be levied for the periods herein described. A period for which the tax
shall be due shall begin on the first day of the first calendar month following
the month during which a distribution under the State Franchise Tax Act was
due, but not made, to the town and shall continue from month to month until
such time as a distribution as required under the State Franchise Tax Act shall
be made. The town shall notify taxpayers within a reasonable time after a
required distribution is or is not made by the Secretary of Revenue.
   (F)   Report and payment of tax. The tax shall be paid to the Tax Collector
at the time and in the form and manner provided for the payment of sales and
use taxes pursuant to and in accordance with G.S. § 105-164.16 as the same
applies to a taxpayer who is consistently liable for more than $100 but less
than $10,000 a month. As applicable to sales and use taxes, such a taxpayer
must file a return and pay the taxes due on a monthly basis. The tax shall be
due and payable when a return is required to be filed.
   (G)   Refunds. Upon the resumption of distributions by the Secretary of
Revenue as required under the State Franchise Tax Act, a refund may be due to a
taxpayer as specified in this division (G). A refund in the amount indicated
herein below shall be due to a taxpayer within 30 days after presentation to
the town by the taxpayer of a written certification made by the Secretary of
Revenue stating that portion of the town's percentage distribution amount of
the state franchise tax that was paid by the taxpayer and allocable to the
calendar quarter for which the most recent distribution was made. The amount of
a refund shall equal the portion of the percentage distribution amount
designated by the Secretary of Revenue.
   (H)   Penalties and remedies. The provisions with respect to remedies and
penalties applicable to the State Franchise Tax Act as contained in G.S. Ch.
105, Art. 9, Subchapter 1, shall be applicable in like manner to the tax
authorized to be levied and collected under this section, to the extent that
the same are not inconsistent with the provisions hereof. The governing body of
the town may exercise any power the Secretary of Revenue may exercise in
collecting the state franchise tax.
   (I)   Administration. In addition to the provisions herein and to the extent
that the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this section, the
levy and collection of taxes herein imposed shall be otherwise administered in
the same manner as the State Franchise Tax Act as contained in G.S. Ch. 105,
Art. 9, Subchapter 1.
   (J)   Confidentiality of records. The confidential and privileged nature of
the records and files concerning the administration of the town franchise tax
is legislatively recognized and declared, and to protect the same the provision
of G.S. Ch. 105 are adopted by reference and made fully effective and
applicable to administration of the tax levied herein as if set forth in full.
   (K)   Section as cumulative. The provisions hereof shall be cumulative, and
in addition to any and all other taxing provisions of town ordinances.
   (L)   Service upon electric power companies. The town shall serve a copy of
this section upon the registered agent for any electric power companies
affected hereby.
(Ord. passed - -2002)
§ 31.02 ROOM OCCUPANCY TAX.
   (A)   Authorization and scope. There is hereby levied a room occupancy tax
of 3% of the gross receipts derived from the rental of any room, lodging or
accommodation furnished by a hotel, motel, inn, tourist camp or similar place
within the town that is subject to sales tax imposed by the state under G.S. §
105-164.4(a)(3). This does not apply to accommodations furnished by nonprofit
charitable, educational or religious organizations.
   (B)   Collection. Every operator of a business subject to the tax levied
under this section shall, on and after the effective date of the levy of the
tax, collect the tax. This tax shall be stated and charged separately from the
sales records, and shall be paid by the purchaser to the operator of the
business as trustee for and on account of the town. The tax shall be added to
the sales price and shall be passed on to the purchaser instead of being borne
by the operator of the business. The operator shall utilize forms for filing
returns and instructions to ensure the full collection of the tax as provided
and required by the town.
   (C)   Administration.
      (1)   The town shall administer a tax levied under this section. A tax
levied under this section is due and payable to the Town Finance Officer in
monthly installments on or before the fifteenth day of the month following the
month in which the tax accrues. Every person, firm, corporation or association
liable for the tax shall, on or before the fifteenth day of each month, prepare
and render a return on a form prescribed by the town. The return shall state
the total gross receipts derived in the preceding month from rentals upon which
the tax is levied.
      (2)   A return filed with the Town Finance Officer under this section is
not a public record as defined by G.S. § 132-1 and may not be disclosed except
as required by law.
   (D)   Disposition of tax proceeds. The Town Council shall use 50% of the
proceeds of the occupancy tax to promote travel and tourism. The remaining
proceeds may be used for any public purpose.
   (E)   Effective date of levy. A tax levied under this section shall become
effective on January 1, 1992.
   (F)   Repeal. A tax levied under this section may be repealed by a
resolution adopted by the Town Council. Repeal of a tax levied under this
section shall become effective on the first day of a month and may not become
effective until the end of the fiscal year in which the repeal resolution was
adopted. Repeal of a tax levied under this section does not affect a liability
for a tax that was attached before the effective date of the repeal, nor does
it affect a right to a refund of a tax that accrued before the effective date
of the repeal.
(Ord. passed 10- -1991)
§ 31.03 LOCAL GOVERNMENT SALES AND USE TAX; DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   The Town Council supports the levy of an additional $0.005 local
government sales and use tax authorized by § 34.14(a) of S.L. 2001-424 as
amended by S.L. 2002-128 and codified as G.S. Ch. 105, Art. 44.
   (B)   Collection of the tax by the State Secretary of Revenue, and liability
therefore, shall begin and continue on and after December 1, 2002.
   (C)   The net proceeds of the tax levied herein shall be distributed by the
Secretary of Revenue to the town as prescribed by G.S. § 105-520. The amount
distributed to the county shall be divided among the county and the
municipalities herein in accordance with the method by which the 1% sales and
use tax levied in the county, pursuant to G.S. Ch. 105, Art. 39, are
distributed.
(Ord. passed - -2002)
§ 31.04 REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Interpretation and intent.
      (1)   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to conflict with the
provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes. In the event of an ambiguity
or conflict between this chapter and the provisions of the North Carolina
General Statutes, the latter shall prevail.
      (2)   It is the intent of this section to prescribe circumstances under
which a developer or property owner who is party to a reimbursement agreement
shall solicit bids in accordance with G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 8 when awarding
contracts for work that would have required competitive bidding if the contract
had been awarded by the county.
      (3)   The section shall not be construed to hold the Town of Columbus
responsible for any defect of the developer's or property owner's technical
compliance with G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 8.
      (4)   The Town of Columbus shall have authority to enter into
reimbursement agreements such that a developer or property owner may contract
with the Town of Columbus to construct an improvement which, had the town
constructed it, would be subject to competitive bidding regulations under G.S.
Ch. 143, Art. 8. Such reimbursement agreement authorized by G.S. 160A-499 shall
not be subject to G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 8 except as provided by G.S. Ch. 160A-499
(d). A developer or property owner who is a party to a reimbursement agreement
with the Town of Columbus shall solicit bids in accordance with G.S. Ch. 143,
Art. 8 when awarding contracts for work that would have required competitive
bidding if the contract had been awarded by the Town of Columbus.
      (5)   The Town of Columbus is also authorized to participate jointly in
reimbursement agreements with Polk County and a developer or property owner so
long as the developer or property owner solicits bids in accordance with G.S.
Ch. 143, Art. 8 when awarding contracts for work that would have required
competitive bidding if the contract had been awarded by the municipality or the
county.
   (B)   Funding. The Town of Columbus may provide for such reimbursements to
be paid from any lawful source, including the town's unrestricted general fund.
(Ord. 2015-05, passed 6-18-2015)
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person, firm, corporation or association who fails or refuses
to file the return required by §
31.02 shall pay a penalty of $10 for each day's omission. In case of failure or
refusal to file the return or pay the tax for a period of 30 days after the
time required for filing the return or for paying the tax, there shall be an
additional tax, as a penalty, of 5% of the tax due in addition to any other
penalty, with an additional tax of 5% for each additional month or fraction
thereof until the tax is paid. The Town Council may, for good cause shown,
compromise or forgive the additional tax penalties imposed by this division (B)
(1).
      (2)   Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade a tax
imposed under this section or who willfully fails to pay the tax or make and
file a return shall, in addition to all other penalties provided by law, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000,
imprisonment not to exceed six months, or both.
(Ord. passed 10- -1991)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   UTILITY EXTENSION
         
52.   WATER CONSERVATION; RESTRICTIONS
         
53.   SEWER USE
         
54.   BRUSH ORDINANCE
         
55.   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Radio-read meters
   
50.02   New power connection
   
50.03   Tampering with water system prohibited
   
50.04   Utility account errors
§ 50.01 RADIO-READ METERS.
   The water and sewer ordinance shall be changed to require the utilization of
radio-read meters.
(Ord. 2007-01, passed 3-15-2007)
§ 50.02 NEW POWER CONNECTION.
   (A)   Only Duke Power Company may and shall provide electrical power within
the town. Duke Power Company shall not, under any circumstances, install a new
power service within the corporate limits of the town unless applicant for the
service has valid certificate signed by the Town Manager. This section shall
take effect and be in force from and after April 1, 1969.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be charged with
same.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1969) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 TAMPERING WITH WATER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to change, unscrew or in any other
way, tamper with any hydrant or water cock, meter or other part of the pipes,
tank, tower or fixtures connected with the water system of the town.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to an employee of the town or a plumber
authorized by the town in the performance of necessary work on the water
system.
§ 50.04 UTILITY ACCOUNT ERRORS.
   (A)   Any customer who finds an error on his or her bill and disputes the
correctness of his or her bill shall have a right to present orally or in
writing his or her complaint. The person in charge of utility billing shall
determine if an error has been made and shall make reimbursement for billing
errors that were made for up to two years in arrears.
   (B)   If the person in charge of utility billing inadvertently fails to
properly bill for services provided, the town may collect the full amount from
the customer for a period of up to two years in arrears.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 3-18-2009)
CHAPTER 51: UTILITY EXTENSION
Section
   
51.01   General extension requirements
   
51.02   Utility use and availability fees
   
51.03   Utility privilege (tap) fees
   
51.04   System development charges
   
51.05   Requirement for connections to the town's water or sewer system
§ 51.01 GENERAL EXTENSION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any property owner or group of property owners having need for a water
and/or sanitary sewer main extension shall first petition the Council for the
extension. The Town Council, in response to such a request, may elect to:
      (1)   Install the services at the town's expense and subsequently collect
applicable tap fees, utility availability fees, and/or system development
charges as described herein, from those who connect to the main to defray, in
part, the cost;
      (2)   Jointly finance and install the extension in cooperation with the
county in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement and subsequently
collect applicable tap fees, utility availability fees, and/or system
development charges, from those who connect to the main to defray the cost;
      (3)   Approve and allow the developer(s) to install the extension at his
or her expense, in which case service may only commence upon full payment of
applicable tap fees, utility availability fees and/or system development
charges;
      (4)   Jointly finance the extension in cooperation with the developer(s)
initiating the request and, subject to project bid procedures, to pay the
difference in cost of larger mains when the town determines it is appropriate;
or
      (5)   Deny the extension.
   (B)   The Town Council may extend water and/or sanitary sewer mains on its
own volition without receipt of a petition from abutting property owners and
may assess the cost or collect utility tap fees, availability fees and, if
applicable, system development charges from those who connect to the main.
   (C)   Plans for proposed extension must be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and submitted to the town and appropriate state agencies
for their approval. The town shall determine the minimum distance for any
extension of a water main or sanitary sewer main. In general, the minimum
distance for an extension shall be across the frontage of the property being
developed, or as otherwise determined by the town. Extensions will not be
approved unless located within a town or state-maintained highway right-of-way
or irrevocable easement obtained for the extension and dedicated to the town.
Water and sewer mains must be constructed in full compliance with town
specifications and standards and be accepted by the town as fulfilling these
obligations. However, the Town Council may find just cause for some deviation
in extreme hardship cases.
   (D)   If a water or sewer system is to be installed in a subdivision in the
town's jurisdiction, and the system is to be assumed and operated by the town
immediately upon completion of installation and prior to acceptance of the
system by the town, a complete set of as-built construction plans must be
provided for the system. The plans shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer and shall meet the utility requirements of the town, the
Division of Environmental Health of the State Department of Environment and
Natural Resources and/or the Division of Water Quality of the State Department
of Environment and Natural Resources. The plans shall be reviewed and approved
by the town's Public Works Director and the registered professional engineer
retained by the developer or owner. The developer's engineer shall provide as-
built plans in both paper and digital format and location maps for all valves,
hydrants, manholes, pump stations, easements and service locations.
   (E)   The systems shall be designed in accordance with the requirements of
the town and the state.
   (F)   The town, or developer, as determined by the town, will make
applications for all necessary permits for extensions. No tie-ins to the
existing system shall be made until all permits have been secured.
   (G)   The developer shall secure the services of a professional engineer to
design the system in accordance with town specifications. The town will monitor
all construction to ensure conformity with approved design drawings.
   (H)   All extensions must be within maintained road rights-of-way or
dedicated rights of way and will not be activated until proof of the dedication
has been provided to the town. The recordation in the Office of the Register of
Deeds for the county, of a plat for a subdivision dedicating a street right-of-
way for ingress and egress, or similar dedication in a deed recorded in the
office, shall constitute dedication of the right-of-way for all public
purposes, including the right to install public water or sewer mains.
   (I)   A sewer service line shall be provided from the main to each
individually deeded lot. Each service shall be provided with a cleanout at the
property line or the edge of right-of-way in compliance with this policy.
Service sizes or additional services may be based upon fixture allowances as
listed in the latest revision of the State Plumbing Code. Meters, expansion
wheels, washers and locks meeting town specifications and of appropriate size
for desired application shall be furnished by the town at the expense of the
developer.
   (J)   All mains and meter services must be located in an irrevocable
dedicated public right-of-way with a minimum width of 25 feet or larger as
determined by the town and dedicated to the town for maintenance access. All
water mains and polyethylene water service lines shall be installed with tracer
wire attached in accordance with the Standard Specifications for AWWA Standards
and the town land development guidelines. All water service lines located under
a paved surface shall be Type "K" Copper.
   (K)   Where applicable, the curb shall be scribed at each service location
with a (W) for water and/or an (S) for sewer.
   (L)   The size of water mains and sanitary sewer mains to be installed and
other required system facilities are to be determined by the town in accordance
with the recognized standards and accepted engineering practices and design,
provided, however, the water line shall not be less than six inches in diameter
and the sewer line be not less than eight inches in diameter. When the town
determines that it is appropriate to install larger size mains than are
necessary to serve the property of the petitioner and the town has elected to
allow the developer to install the line(s) at his or her expense, the
difference in the cost of the larger size facilities for which the extension
was requested by the town, shall be paid for by reimbursement if determined to
be appropriate by the town, provided proper bidding.
   (M)   Practices were followed for the construction of the lines as
determined by the town.
   (N)   Individual meters are required for each individual house or building.
   (O)   If a private system owner/operator desires the town to assume
ownership, operation and maintenance of his, her or its system the following
criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Owner shall comply with all rules and regulations required by this
section and approved specifications;
      (2)   All mains shall be improved to meet minimum requirements as
stipulated in the approved specification;
      (3)   Individual units shall be provided with individual meters, radio-
read, purchased from town;
      (4)   All water mains and meter services must be in a right of way with a
minimum width of 25 feet, or larger as determined by the town, and dedicated to
the town for operation and maintenance, and recorded with the county; and
      (5)   Once all system improvements have been made, the person responsible
for the improvements agrees to indemnify and hold the town harmless from all
loss, cost, damage, liability and expense for a period of one year from the
date that the water or sewer system is accepted by the town.
   (P)   Maintenance and locating of services within a development shall be the
responsibility of the developer until such time as the water and sewer system
improvements have been approved and accepted by the town.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.02 UTILITY USE AND AVAILABILITY FEES.
   (A)   Any property owner seeking a service connection to a water or sanitary
sewer main shall make application to the town staff for the services. In the
event the service is available and mains of adequate size are in place to
service the property, the applicant shall pay to the town monthly water and/or
sewer use fees in an amount as established from time to time by the Town
Council and published in the town schedule of fees and charges.
   (B)   Any owner of property within the town who, when requiring water or
sewer/septic service to the property, does not seek a service connection to a
water or sanitary sewer main, or having such connection already made, does not
make use of such connection, where the service is available and mains of
adequate size are in place to service the property, shall pay to the town
monthly water and/or sewer availability fees, in an amount as established from
time to time by the Town Council and published in the town schedule of fees and
charges; provided, however, that availability fees due hereunder shall not be
charged for any residence relying upon water from a private well located on the
residence's property as its primary source of domestic water as of January 19,
2011, until the individuals residing in the residence on January 19, 2011,
cease to reside in the residence.
   (C)   More than one person or entity may serve as co-applicants for a
utility account. All applicants approved by the town shall be jointly and
severally liable for fees due on the account.
   (D)   An applicant for utility service shall pay the utility deposit stated
in the town schedule of fees and charges. An account holder may designate on
the account application that the account holder wishes for the deposit, in the
event of the account holder's death, to be transferred to the account holder's
heirs who receive the real property where the utility service is furnished.
   (E)   In the event of the death of a utility account holder, or on the death
of the last living co-account holder in cases where accounts are in two or more
names, a new account applicant, who was a resident of the real property where
the utility service is furnished at the time of the death of the former account
holder, shall be allowed a period of up to 120 days from the death of the
former account holder to pay the utility deposit for that same real property.
(Ord. passed - -2007; Am. Ord. 2010-07, passed 12-16-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-02,
passed 7-21-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-1, passed 1-19-2012; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed
1-21-2016)
§ 51.03 UTILITY PRIVILEGE (TAP) FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the utility availability fees charged by the town, an
applicant for connection to a water and/or sewer service main shall pay the
town a connection privilege fee (tap fee) in an amount as established from time
to time by the Town Council and published in the town schedule of fees and
charges.
   (B)   The privilege fees shall apply for all connections made inside or
outside the town's corporate limits, unless the Town Council approves a waiver.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.04 SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT CHARGES.
   In addition to the utility availability and privilege fees, the Town Council
may, in its discretion, impose a utility system development charge, based on
service requirements and capital cost recovery methods, to recover part or all
of the cost to the town to install the main(s) and to increase treatment plant
capacity. The amount shall be as established from time to time by the Town
Council and published in the town schedule of fees and charges.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 51.05 REQUIREMENT FOR CONNECTIONS TO THE TOWN'S WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM.
   All applicants for water or sewer service to properties outside the town's
corporate limits shall, prior to connection to the town's water or sewer
service, agree to be voluntarily annexed into the town and shall adhere to the
following procedures and criteria.
   (A)   If the town is, in its sole discretion, unable to provide the property
owner with all other services as required by state law, the property owner must
execute an agreement with the town permitting the town to annex the property at
such time as the town determines the property is eligible for annexation. An
agreement shall also serve as a duly filed petition for voluntary annexation.
The agreement and petition for voluntary annexation shall be binding upon the
heirs, successors in title and assigns of the property owner.
   (B)   If the town is, in its sole discretion, able to provide the property
owner with all other services as required by state law, the property owner must
file a petition for voluntary contiguous or satellite annexation, as
appropriate, to the town. Failure to file the petition, and to annex if the
petition is approved by the Town Council, shall result in denial or immediate
termination of the applied for utility service.
   (C)   This section shall not apply where the town has a previously
established contradictory policy or agreement with another public body that
concerns the affected property.
   (D)   For the purposes of this section, PROPERTY OWNER means any business,
entity, organization, individual or group(s) of people having an ownership
interest in real property.
(Ord. passed - -2007; Ord. passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 52: WATER CONSERVATION; RESTRICTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Voluntary measures
   
52.04   Advertising
   
52.05   Mandatory measures; prohibited use
   
52.06   Emergency measures; applicable restrictions
   
52.07   Lifting of imposed restrictions
   
52.08   Application; violation; enforcement
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   For the protection of the public health, welfare and safety of the
town, the Town Manager or his or her designee is authorized to determine when
certain conditions exist in the town requiring water conservation measures.
   (B)   The conservation measures may include voluntary conservation measures,
mandatory conservation measures and water shortage emergency measures.
   (C)   The Public Works Director may recommend to the Town Manager that water
conservation measures be implemented.
   (D)   The Town Manager, following consultation with the Mayor and Town
Council shall determine which of the three measures shall be declared.
   (E)   In exercising the authority for declaring a water shortage condition,
consideration shall be given to water storage levels and available sources of
supply, available usable supply on hand, outlook for precipitation, daily water
use patterns and availability of water from other sources.
   (F)   If any governmental agency, such as the Governor's office, state or
federal government declares a water shortage event, the town shall comply
regardless of our water situation with at least voluntary measures.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. All persons in whose names the town maintains an account for water
use, or who are responsible for payment of water passing through a particular
meter. All CUSTOMERS are responsible for any use of water that passes through
the meters for which they are responsible.
   DOMESTIC USE. Use by residential users of the amount of water as is
necessary to sustain human life and the lives of domestic pets, and to maintain
reasonable minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   EMERGENCY. Any one or all of the following difficulties are being
encountered:
      (1)   Water supplies are below the level necessary to meet normal needs
causing serious shortages;
      (2)   There is inadequate water treatment capability;
      (3)   Water transmission capability is disrupted or inadequate;
      (4)   Finished water storage problems exist to the level that normal
needs cannot be met; or
      (5)   Any other unforeseen circumstance which results in or may result in
a severe water shortage.
   MANAGER. The Town Manager for the town, or his or her designee.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Use by users of the amount of water as is necessary to
sustain human life and comfort in the workplace and to maintain reasonable
minimum standards of hygiene and sanitation.
   PUBLIC USE. Use of water from fire hydrants for firefighting.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 52.03 VOLUNTARY MEASURES.
   In the event voluntary conservation measures are declared the following
guidelines shall apply and the public shall be encouraged to adhere to the
following:
   (A)   Limit car washing to the minimum;
   (B)   Limit lawn and garden watering to that, which is necessary for plants
to survive;
   (C)   Do not wash down outside areas such as sidewalks, patios, parking
lots, service bays and the like;
   (D)   Do not leave faucets running while shaving or rinsing dishes;
   (E)   Water shrubbery to the minimum required reusing household water when
possible;
   (F)   Limit use of clothes washers and dishwashers and when used, operate
fully loaded;
   (G)   Use of showers for bathing, rather than bathtub and limit showers to
no more than four minutes;
   (H)   Limit flushing of toilets by multiple usage;
   (I)   The use of disposable and biodegradable dishes is encouraged;
   (J)   The use of flow restrictive and water saving devices;
   (K)   All residents, businesses and institutions are requested to
temporarily delay new landscape work until the water shortage has ended; and
   (L)   Limit use for industrial purposes
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 52.04 ADVERTISING.
   In the event that a water shortage is declared, the town shall advertise the
shortage in a newspaper having general circulation within the town and the
surrounding area notifying the public that the water shortage does in fact
exist.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 52.05 MANDATORY MEASURES; PROHIBITED USE.
   (A)   In the event mandatory conservation measures are declared in addition
to the voluntary guidelines already in effect, it shall be unlawful to use
water supplied by the town water system in the following manner: If voluntary
restrictions are in place and any town storage tank drops below a level
determined to be safe by the Town Manager or his or her designee:
      (1)   To water lawns, shrubbery, trees, flowers and vegetable gardens
except by hand held hose or container or drip irrigation system;
      (2)   To fill newly constructed swimming and/or wading pools or refill
swimming and/or wading pools, which have been drained;
      (3)   To wash automobiles, trucks, trailers, boats, airplanes or any
other type of mobile equipment, with the exception of commercial car washes and
laundromats. Commercial car washes, laundromats and other high volume water
users shall adhere to restrictions set by the Town Manager or his or her
designee;
      (4)   To wash down outside areas such as streets, driveways, service
station aprons, parking lots, buildings, exteriors of existing or newly
constructed homes or apartments, sidewalks or patios, or to use water for other
similar purposes;
      (5)   To use water from public fire hydrants for any purpose other than
fire suppression or other public emergency;
      (6)   To operate or induce water into any ornamental fountain, pool or
other structure making similar use of water;
      (7)   To serve drinking water in restaurants, cafeterias or other food
establishments, except upon request;
      (8)   To operate water-cooled air conditioners or other equipment that
does not recycle cooling water, except when health and safety are adversely
affected;
      (9)   To use water for any unnecessary purpose or to intentionally waste
water; and
      (10)   To operate industries at a rate or period of time that will
restrict the town's ability to supply water to protect its citizen's health and
safety.
   (B)   This operational level will be decided by the Town Manager or his or
her designee.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 52.06 EMERGENCY MEASURES; APPLICABLE RESTRICTIONS.
   In the event emergency conservation measures are declared in addition to the
restrictions for voluntary and mandatory conditions the following restrictions
shall also apply:
   (A)   To induce water into any pool;
   (B)   Use water outside a structure for any use other than an emergency
involving a fire;
   (C)   To operate an evaporative air conditioner which recycles water, except
during operating hours of business;
   (D)   Fire protection to be maintained by drafting of ponds and lakes,
wherever possible; and
   (E)   The use of throwaway utensils and plates is encouraged and recommended
at all eating establishments.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 52.07 LIFTING OF IMPOSED RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   When a water shortage condition has been called into effect, water
conservation measures will expire when the Town Manager, after consultation
with the Mayor and Town Council and upon recommendation of the Water Plant
Superintendent, deems that the condition, which caused the alert, has abated.
   (B)   The expiration or cancellation of a water shortage declaration shall
be promptly and extensively publicized.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 52.08 APPLICATION; VIOLATION; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This section applies to all persons using town water, inside and
outside the town limits, regardless of whether they have a contract for water
service with the town. A customer of the town shall be responsible for all
violations that occur in connection with water that passes through the meter
for which the customer is billed by the town.
   (B)   Any person who uses water in violation of a restriction or ban imposed
on the use of water during a mandatory conservation period, a period of water
shortage emergency or in violation of a water rationing policy, or who
otherwise violates the provisions of this section, or who impedes or interferes
with any action undertaken or ordered pursuant to this section and policies
adopted hereunder, shall be subject to the penalties listed below.
      (1)   Enforcement by police officers. Upon the declaration of mandatory
conservation, water shortage emergency, or rationing, the Manager and every
police officer of the town may enforce any restrictions or bans imposed on the
use of water.
      (2)   Suspicion of violation. Whenever the town has reasonable cause to
believe that a person is violating any of the provisions of this section or any
policy adopted hereunder, the town shall immediately notify that person of the
violation by affixing a written notice of the violation to the property where
the violation occurred and personally delivering or mailing the notice to the
customer of record and to any other person known to the town who is responsible
for the violation or its correction. The notice shall describe the violation,
order that it be corrected, cured or abated immediately or within the specified
times as the Manager determines is reasonable under the circumstances, and warn
that more severe measures, such as civil penalties, criminal charges or
termination of water service may be brought, assessed or imposed. If the order
is not complied with within the time period, the Manager may undertake
enforcement action as follows.
      (3)   Enforcement action. Any person who, after being given notice of
violation, does not comply with this section or policy adopted hereunder within
the time period specified shall, at the option of the town, be subject to any
of the following: Civil penalties, criminal penalties, termination of water
service, injunctive relief, or any appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions in §§
55.01 or
55.02 shall not receive any free garbage pick-up service, and if garbage,
recycling or other refuse is left on the margin of the street in any other
condition than provided by §§
55.01 or
55.02, it shall be considered a menace to public health, and any person, firm
or corporation guilty of the violation shall be subject to a penalty set forth
in the town's fee schedule for each and every offense.
   (C)   Pursuant to the authority of G.S. § 14-4(a), violating §
55.03 shall be a Class 3 Misdemeanor and shall be subject to the fine set forth
in the town's fee schedule. Each offense is a separate offense and may be
charged accordingly.
(Ord. 2007-06, passed 10-25-2007; Am. Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-19-2015)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER USE
Section
General Sewer Provisions
   
53.01   General provisions and prohibitions
   
53.02   Control
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Use of public sewers
   
53.05   Private wastewater disposal
   
53.06   Sewer permits
   
53.07   Excluded wastes
   
53.08   Pretreatment
   
53.09   Measurement of flow
   
53.10   Measurements; tests and analyses
   
53.11   Determination of character and strength of wastes
   
53.12   Surcharges
   
53.13   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
53.14   Protection of equipment
   
53.15   Reviewing authority and amendment
   
53.16   Enforcement
   
53.17   Exceptions
   
53.18   Scope
Grease and Oil Control
   
53.30   Scope and purpose
   
53.31   Definitions
   
53.32   Food service establishment permit required
   
53.33   Wastewater discharge limitations
   
53.34   Grease interceptor requirements
   
53.35   Grease trap requirements
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL SEWER PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person, partnership, corporation or other legal entity shall
hereafter tap into or connect to any portion of the town sewer system without
first receiving a permit from the town.
   (B)   The provisions of division (A) above are applicable to connecting to
any sewer service lines, or sewer private lines to residences, or any
connecting to any line anywhere which shall ultimately deliver sewer or
wastewater to the town wastewater treatment plant, shall require a permit.
   (C)   (1)   Any sewer line of four inches in diameter or less shall be
deemed to serve only one single-family residence or business, and those sewer
lines shall require a permit before connecting to the town sewer system.
      (2)   No additional connections may be made thereafter to these lines and
the residence or business owner shall retain all maintenance of, including cost
of maintenance, of these lines.
   (D)   (1)   Any sewer line of greater than four inches in diameter shall be
deemed to ultimately have the capacity to serve more than one single-family
residence or business, and these sewer lines shall also require a permit before
connecting to the town sewer system.
      (2)   Before a permit shall be issued for these lines, however, the
property owner requesting the connection must convey title and an easement
allowing maintenance to these size sewer lines to the town and must as a
condition precedent to connecting meet town specifications for sewer lines.
These sewer lines shall thereafter be a part of the town sewer system and shall
be maintained by the town.
   (E)   In the event the property owner fails to convey title and easement to
the town of any sewer connection of more than four inches in diameter pursuant
to division (C) above, the act of connection to the town sewer system of any
line larger than four inches in diameter, shall be deemed to have conveyed
ownership and title to the sewer line, as well as an easement for maintenance
of the line, to the town, unless the Board specifically elects to treat the
sewer line differently, or order its disconnection.
   (F)   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its date
of passage.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.02 CONTROL.
   The sanitary sewer system of the town shall be under the control of, and the
duty of prescribing and enforcing a full compliance with all rules and
regulations governing the discharge of wastewater into the sanitary sewer
system shall be vested in, the Town Council or its authorized representative.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   All definitions shall be in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §§ 35.401 and
35.403. Nothing contained herein shall contravene the national pollution
discharge elimination system permit.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under, standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter by weight.
      BUILDING SEWER or HOUSE CONNECTION. The connecting pipe from a building,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall, to the
sanitary sewer.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic and oxidizable inorganic matter under standard
laboratory procedure expressed in milligrams per liter by weight.
      COLOR. The true color of the light transmitted by the waste solution
after removing the suspended material, including the pseudocolloidal particles
and as specified as APHA units.
      DIRECTOR. The person who is charged with administrative control of all
operations of the sewer system, or his or her authorized representative or such
person or persons as may be designated by the Council.
      DOMESTIC WASTE. All liquid and waterborne pollutants, exclusive of
unpolluted water as defined below or wastewater or wastes from processes or
operations in industrial establishments, as defined below.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid and water borne pollutants resulting from
processes or operations employed in industrial establishments, as defined in
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and
Budget of the Federal Government, as amended and supplemented, under the
following divisions:
         (a)   Div. A: Agricultural, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Div. B: Mining;
         (c)   Div. D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Div. E: Transportation, Communication, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Services; and
         (e)   Div. I: Services.
      MAY. Permissive.
      NEW USER. Any person discharging waste to the town for the first time
after the effective date of this chapter.
      NORMAL WASTE. A waste having average concentrations of 300 milligrams per
liter of BOD, or less, and 300 milligrams per liter of suspended solids, or
less, as determined by samples taken before entering the public sanitary
sewers.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association and corporation other
than the Town of Columbus, Polk County.
      pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
in moles per liter of solution. Stabilized pH is that determined after a sample
of the waste has been subjected to natural aeration.
      POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement
related to pretreatment, other than a pretreatment standard imposes on an
industrial discharger.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant discharge
limits promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in
accordance with §§ 307(b) and 307(c) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1317(b)(c), which applies to a specific category of industrial discharge.
      PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any facilities for wastewater
treatment and disposal not maintained and operated by the town.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The organic wastes resulting from the
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such
degree that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle being greater than one-
half-inch in any dimension.
      RECEIVING STREAM. The body of water, stream or watercourse receiving the
discharge from a wastewater treatment plant, or that body of water, stream or
watercourse formed by the effluent from a wastewater treatment plant.
      SANITARY SEWER. A public sewer controlled by a governmental agency or
public utility that carries liquid- and water-borne wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together with minor
quantities of ground and surface waters that are not admitted intentionally.
      SANITARY SEWERAGE SYSTEM. And include any part of the public sanitary
sewer system or systems, including wastewater-pumping stations that discharge
into wastewater treatment facilities owned and/or operated by the town.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater of any duration during which
the rate of flow, or concentration of any constituent increases to such
magnitude as to adversely affect the operation of the sewer system and the
ability of the town wastewater treatment facilities to meet the water quality
objectives of the NPDES permit.
      STANDARD METHODS. The analytical procedures set forth in the latest
edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association, or EPA Methods for
Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes, as published by the Environmental
Protection Agency, Water Quality Office in April 1971, or subsequent editions.
      STRENGTH OF WASTE. The concentration, expressed in milligrams per liter
by weight (mg/l) of a pollutant or substance contained in the liquid waste.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total solid matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water or liquid waste, and which is removable
by laboratory filtration.
      THE COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Columbus in Polk County,
North Carolina.
      THE TOWN. The Town of Columbus in Polk County, North Carolina.
      UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER.
         (a)   Any wastewater which is substantially free of pollutants and is
discharged from rain downspouts and drains, footing drains, storm and surface
drains, and cooling water systems.
         (b)   Any wastewaters judged by the Division of Environmental
Management, Department of Natural Resources and Community Development of the
State to be admissible without treatment to streams and watercourses under the
jurisdiction of the Agency, and in accordance with the standards of water
quality established by the Agency for the particular stream or watercourse into
which the unpolluted wastewater is to be discharged.
      WATERCOURSE. An open channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.04 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge to any outlet other
than a sanitary sewer, within the area under jurisdiction of the town, any
domestic or industrial wastes except where suitable treatment has been provided
in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
town and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now
located a public sanitary sewer of the town or other municipal agency or public
utility that discharges to wastewater treatment facilities owned and/or
operated by the town, is hereby required at the owner's expense to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the requirements of the appropriate municipal
agency or public utility, within six months after date of official notice to do
so, provided that the public sewer abuts the property and is within 200 feet of
the building or facility to be served by the sewer. Failure to make the
connection within the allotted time will result in a minimum user charge being
assessed on a monthly basis to the property owner as if the connection were
made.
      (2)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
which have an existing septic tank system properly functioning and abutting on
any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is not now located a public
sanitary sewer of the town or other municipal agency or public utility that
discharges to wastewater treatment facilities owned and/or operated by the
town, is hereby required at the owner(s) expense, based on the applicable tap-
on fee at the time, to connect the facilities directly with the proper public
sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the requirements of
the appropriate municipal agency or public utility, within six months after
date of installation of the public sanitary sewer, provided that the public
sewer abuts the property and is within 200 feet of the building or facility to
be serviced by the sewer.
      (3)   Failure to make the connection within the allotted time will result
in a minimum user charge being assessed on a monthly basis to the property
owner as if the connection were made.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this division (B).
sewer availability fees shall not be charged for any residence relying upon
water from a private well located on the residence's property as its primary
source of domestic water as of January 19, 2011, until either the residence
connects to the town sewer system, or the individuals residing in the residence
on January 19, 2011, cease to reside in the residence.
   (C)   All users shall participate in the Users Charge (UC) provisions as
applicable, pursuant to 40 C.F.R. §§ 35.925-11, 35.925-12, 35.928 and 35.929
and Appendix B and as approved by the United States Environmental Protection
Agency, except as may be provided for in Section 805, 13.04 and 15.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997; Am. Ord. 2011-03, passed 7-21-2011) Penalty,
see §
53.99
§ 53.05 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
53.04(B) above, the toilet and other facilities necessary for the discharge of
domestic and industrial wastes shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the requirements of the appropriate state,
federal and/or local regulatory agency.
   (B)   (1)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit from the
appropriate regulatory authority and furnish a copy thereof to the Director.
      (2)   The copy of the permit shall be accompanied by the supplementary
data as deemed necessary by the Director to maintain an accurate file of the
private wastewater disposal systems to facilitate the planning of future public
sewer service.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of the Division of
Environmental Management, Department of Natural Resources and Community
Development of the state or other like board or authority.
   (D)   At such time as a public sewer abuts a property served by a private
wastewater disposal system, the provisions of §
53.04(B) above shall become applicable regarding connection to the public
sewer. Any septic tanks, cesspools or similar private wastewater disposal
facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with suitable material.
   (E)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain any private wastewater
disposal facilities in a proper manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.06 SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the agency having jurisdiction
over the public sewer or appurtenance.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of sewer permits:
      (1)   Building sewer permits for residential, commercial, industrial or
public facilities; and
      (2)   Permit to discharge industrial wastes for industrial establishments
as defined in §
53.03 above.
   (C)   Building sewer permits for all connections shall be obtained under the
regulation of, and in accordance with the requirements of the municipal agency
or public utility having jurisdiction over the public sewer to which the
connection is proposed to be made.
   (D)   In addition to the requirements of division (C) above, any person who,
after the effective date of this chapter proposes to originate the discharge of
any industrial waste for the first time into the sanitary sewerage system or
who proposes to make a significant change in the character or volume of any
industrial waste theretofore discharged into the sanitary sewerage system shall
apply to the town for a "permit to discharge industrial wastes" on the special
form furnished by the town. The applications shall be supplemented by the
information as the Director may reasonably require for purposes of determining
whether the qualifications are met as specified in division (I) below.
   (E)   In the event of failure of the Director to issue to the applicant a
written grant or denial of a permit within 60 days from the submission of an
application or within 60 days from the submission of any additional information
requested from the applicant by the Director (which shall be requested within
30 days after submission of the original application), it shall be unlawful for
the applicant to discharge the industrial waste described in the application
into the sanitary sewerage system as if a permit to do so had been granted.
   (F)   A significant change in the character or volume of an industrial
waste, for purposes of division (D) above shall be deemed to be proposed if
substances, compounds and elements not previously constituting a significant
part of a person's industrial waste are to be introduced into the waste; or if
the average concentration, expressed in milligrams per liter, of any substance,
compound or element in the waste, or average volume proposed to be discharged
will increase by 25% or more. In case of doubt as to whether an intended change
constitutes a significant change, it shall be the responsibility of the person
intending to make such a change to make the necessary application or obtain a
written ruling from the Director that an application for a permit is not
required.
   (G)   Any person who, on the effective date of these regulations, is
operating within the town an industrial establishment within the meaning of
industrial waste in §
53.03 from which industrial waste is discharged into the sanitary sewerage
system (hereafter called "an existing industrial discharger") may continue the
discharge until the six months after the effective date of this chapter. On or
before this date a permit will be required and an application shall have been
submitted to the Director in accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   The Director shall issue written notices to each existing
industrial discharger at least 120 days prior to the date a permit shall be
required specifying in the notice the time within which an existing industrial
discharger shall file application for a permit;
      (2)   Within the specified time limit, the existing industrial discharger
shall file the required application together with any other reasonably
necessary information as described in division (D) above;
      (3)   An existing industrial discharger may continue to discharge, after
complying with the requirement to file an application for a permit, unless and
until receipt by the applicant of a written notice specifying the reasons for
denial of a permit and specifying what remedial action, if any, must be taken
to qualify the applicant for a permit; and
      (4)   In the event that the applicant is denied a permit, the applicant
shall comply with the provisions specified in division (E) above.
   (H)   In any case where a final determination has been made denying a
permit, either after an appeal or because a timely appeal has not been taken,
it shall be unlawful for any person so denied a permit to discharge industrial
waste into a sanitary sewerage system.
   (I)   The "permit to discharge industrial waste" will be issued by the town
only when the Director has determined that satisfactory information has been
submitted to indicate that:
      (1)   Sufficient capability is available at the proposed point of
discharge for receiving the discharge of industrial waste and adequate
treatment capacity is available for treating;
      (2)   The waste being discharged or proposed to be discharged is amenable
to treatment by the processes employed in the wastewater treatment plants of
the town and will not impair the ability of the town to comply with the current
NPDES permit limits;
      (3)   The waste being discharged or proposed to be discharged will not
cause damage to the sanitary sewerage system and/or wastewater treatment
facilities and will not constitute a hazard to humans or animals; and
      (4)   The concentrations of substances, compounds, and elements in the
waste being discharged or proposed to be discharged do not exceed the limits
established in §
53.07 below.
   (J)   The "permit to discharge industrial wastes" as described herein shall
be issued initially for a period of one year and may be renewed for periods of
one to five years per the discretion of the Director or until the industrial
discharge ceases, whichever comes first. Repeating the described application
procedures may renew the permit.
   (K)   The discharger will submit to the Director a period compliance report,
at the time intervals stated in the permit, which indicates the nature and
concentration of pollutants in their discharge effluent. This compliance report
may be incorporated with any such reports required under §
53.08 below.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07 EXCLUDED WASTES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following materials,
waste materials, wastes, gases or liquids into any sewer forming part of the
sanitary sewerage system:
      (1)   Any water or waste containing more than 100 milligrams per liter of
petroleum or other non-biodegradable oils;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes having a color which is not removable by the
existing wastewater treatment plant processes which causes the POTW effluent to
exceed color requirements for discharge to the receiving waters per the NPDES
permit;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naptha or other hydrocarbon solvents or
oils, or other flammable to explosive liquids, solids or gases;
      (4)   Any other solid or viscous substance in quantity or character
capable of causing obstruction to flow in sewers or interference with normal
operation of wastewater treatment facilities;
      (5)   Any noxious, malodorous or dangerous gas or any substance capable
of creating a detrimental effect when introduced into the sewerage system;
      (6)   Any unpolluted wastewater, as defined in §
53.03 above;
      (7)   Any toxic or poisonous substance or any other materials in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with the wastewater treatment
processes, or to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or to cause a
violation of the water quality standards or effluent standards for the stream
or watercourse receiving the effluent from any town operated wastewater
treatment plant;
      (8)   Inflow sources, as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 35.905, shall be
prohibited in new connections into the sanitary sewer portion of the sewer
system; (40 C.F.R. § 35.927.4); and
      (9)   Heat in amounts, which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in NPDES permit violations.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or deposit any of the following described
waters or wastes to the sanitary sewer except by special written permit; and
then only in strict accordance with the terms of the permit and in compliance
with any and all federal and state pretreatment regulations that may apply. No
permit will be issued if it appears likely in the opinion of the Director that
the wastes can harm either the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment;
have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; violate the national pollutant
discharge elimination system or the regulations of the state; or can otherwise
endanger life, limb or public property. The Director shall state in writing his
or her reasons for denying a permit.
      (1)   In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of the
wastes, the Director will give consideration of such factors as the quantities
of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the sewers; materials
of construction of the sewers; nature of the sewage treatment process; capacity
of the sewage treatment plant; degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage
treatment plant; and other pertinent factors.
      (2)   The substances prohibited are:
         (a)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 40°C
(104°F);
         (b)   Any waters or wastes containing fats, wax, grease or oil,
whether emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which
may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 104°F (40°C);
         (c)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded, the
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval
of the Director;
         (d)   Any water or wastes containing strong acid or alkaline wastes,
iron pickling wastes or concentrating plating solutions which would affect the
biological processes employed at the treatment facility either by increasing
the acidity and/or alkalinity of the raw (influent) to the treatment facility
such that treatment efficiency would be impaired. Prospective dischargers with
wastes that fall into the classifications of this division (B)(2)(d) shall be
responsible for proving their compliance;
         (e)   1.   Any water or wastes containing significant amounts of iron,
chromium, copper, zinc, dissolved salts and similar objectionable or toxic
substances; or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement to such degree
that any such material received in the composite sewage at the sewage treatment
works exceeds the specific limits established as follows:
               a.   Hexavalent chromium: 0.10 mg/l;
               b.   Trivalent chromium: 0.10 mg/l;
               c.   Nickel: 0.10 mg/l;
               d.   Cyanide: 0.10 mg/l;
               e.   Zinc: 1.00 mg/l;
               f.   Copper: 0.10 mg/l;
               g.   Iron: 5.00 mg/l;
               h.   Aluminum: 0.10 mg/l;
               i.   Lead: 0.10 mg/l; or
               j.   Silver: 0.10 mg/l.
            2.   Limits on the concentrations of other metallic constituents
and/or toxic substances which may have a detrimental effect on the sewage
treatment works may be established by the Director and the State Department of
Natural Resources and Community Development, unless the prospective discharger
can prove to the aforementioned parties that the substances are amenable to
treatment at the treatment works.
         (f)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Director as necessary after treatment to meet the
requirements of the state, federal or other public agencies with jurisdiction
over the discharge to the receiving waters;
         (g)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Any waters or wastes having a stabilized pH lower than 5.0 or
higher than 9.0, or having any other corrosive property capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
         (i)   Materials which exert or cause:
            1.   Excessive concentrations of inert suspended and dissolved
solids;
            2.   Excessive BOD (greater than 300 mg/l), chemical oxygen demand
(greater than 750 mg/l) or chlorine requirements in such quantities as to
constitute a significant load on the POTW; or
            3.   Unusual volume of low or concentration of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
         (j)   Any waters or wastes containing substances which are not
amenable to treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed,
or are amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters; or
         (k)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids in excess of
300 mg/l.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director, they are required for the proper handling of wastes
except that the interceptors or traps shall not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the Director and shall be located so as to be readily accessible
for cleaning and inspection. The discharger at his or her expense shall
maintain them, in continuous and effective operation at all times.
   (D)   (1)   Each discharger shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the discharger's own cost and expense. No
user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date of this
chapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until
accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the Town Council, and
approval of the plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial
user from the responsibility to modify the user's facility as necessary to meet
the requirements of this chapter. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is
the responsibility of the discharger to immediately telephone and notify the
POTW of the incident. The notification shall include location of discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
      (2)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the discharger
shall submit to the Director a detailed written report describing the cause of
the discharge and the measures to be taken by the discharger to prevent similar
future occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the discharger of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability, which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall the notification relieve the discharger of any fines, civil penalties or
other liability that may be imposed by this chapter. A notice shall be
permanently posted on the discharger's bulletin board or other prominent place
advising employees which to call in the event of a dangerous discharge.
Employers shall insure that all employees who may cause or suffer such a
dangerous discharge to occur are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is denied a permit to discharge industrial waste, or
who is prohibited from discharging any substance as specified in this chapter,
or who is required to provide pretreatment as a major contributing industry
under the federal effluent limitations guidelines for the appropriate
industrial or commercial category, shall have the sole responsibility to
devise, at his or her own expense, the methods for eliminating the problems so
as to make any waste discharge eligible for a permit or for compliance with
this chapter or the federal guidelines. The sole responsibility shall not be
affected nor shall the town notwithstanding assume any responsibility that the
Director may render any assistance to any person in overcoming such a problem
by offering advice or suggestions.
   (B)   When preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense and they shall be in
compliance with any and all federal and state pretreatment standards that may
apply.
   (C)   Pretreatment requirements for major contributing industry shall be in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. pt. 403, and the national pollutant discharge
elimination system (NPDES) (40 C.F.R. pt. 125), and allocated for discharging
by this chapter.
   (D)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new user, following commencement of
the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any discharger subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Director a report
indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from
the regulated process which are limited by pretreatment standards and
requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these process units
which are limited by the pretreatment standards or requirements. The report
shall state whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are
being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and
maintenance and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the discharger into
compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements and the
average and maximum daily flow for these process units which are limited by the
pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent
basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance and/or
pretreatment is necessary to bring the discharger into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. An authorized representative
of the discharger shall sign this statement.
   (E)   (1)   Any discharger subject to a pretreatment standard, after the
compliance date of the pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new user
after commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the Director
during the months of June and December, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the Director, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by the
pretreatment flow. At the discretion of the Director and in consideration of
such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the
like, the Director may agree to alter the months during which the above reports
are to be submitted.
      (2)   The Director may impose mass limitations on dischargers which are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such
cases, the report required above shall indicate the mass of pollutants
regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the discharger. These
reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the discharge,
including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production and mass
where requested by the Director, of pollutants contained therein which are
limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring
shall be prescribed in the applicable pretreatment standard. All analysis shall
be performed in accordance with procedures established pursuant to § 304(g) of
the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1314(g), and contained in 40 C.F.R. pt.
136 and amendments thereto.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.09 MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   One or more of the following methods shall measure the volume or quantity of
waste discharged by any person into the sanitary sewerage system.
   (A)   If the volume of water used by any person in his or her industrial or
process operations is substantially the same as the volume secured from the
municipal waterworks system, then the volume of water purchased shall be
considered to be the volume of waste discharged. However, if a waste discharge
flow meter is installed, the measured flow volume shall be considered the
volume of waste discharged.
   (B)   If, in the establishment of any person discharging industrial waste
into the sanitary sewerage system, a substantial portion of the water secured
from the municipal waterworks system is not used for industrial purposes, or is
not returned to the sanitary sewerage system, the quantity of industrial waste
shall be determined as follows:
      (1)   By a meter (or meters) on the water supply line (or lines) to his
or her industrial and/or process operations;
      (2)   By a meter (or meters) on the waste line (or waste lines) from his
or her industrial and/or process operations; or
      (3)   Until meters as required under divisions (B)(1) and (2) above have
been installed, an estimate, made by the town, shall be made of the proportion
of the water purchased which is used for industrial purposes and returned to
the sanitary sewerage system.
   (C)   If any person now discharging or proposing to discharge industrial
waste into the sanitary sewerage system does not secure his or her entire water
supply requirements from the municipal water works system, the person shall
install and maintain a meter (or meters) on the waste line (or waste lines)
from his or her industrial and/or process operations, or shall install such
additional meters on the private water supply as required to permit
determination of the total quantity discharged to the sewers from both sources
under procedures comparable to divisions (A) and (B) above.
   (D)   Any discharge flow meters and the Director shall approve
appurtenances, and the installation of such.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.10 MEASUREMENTS; TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   Any person, who on the effective date of this chapter is discharging
industrial waste into the sanitary sewerage system, shall provide reasonable
access, means and facilities for the purpose of permitting the convenient
observations, measurements and sampling of the industrial waste. If the access,
means and facilities are not otherwise available such person shall construct
and maintain an accessible and safe control manhole on the waste line or lines
for that purpose.
   (B)   After the effective date of this chapter, any person proposing to
discharge industrial wastes in quantities greater than 50,000 gpd shall provide
a control manhole, which shall include a recording wastewater meter, in
accordance with the requirements of the Director.
   (C)   All measurements, test and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which references are made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at the control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken. BOD
and suspended solids analyses will be obtained from 24-hour composites of all
outfalls and pHs determined from periodic grab samples, unless otherwise
determined by the Director.
   (D)   When required by the Director, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable control
manhole together with the necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located, and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Director. The
manhole shall be installed by the discharger at his expense and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times. The
provision of a control manhole shall be mandatory for wastes receiving
pretreatment or otherwise altered or regulated before discharge and for wastes
which are unusually strong and thereby subject to a surcharge.
   (E)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength; the town
for treatment, subject to payment, therefor, may accept character or quantity
by the industrial concern. The making of special agreements or arrangements
between the town and any industrial concern shall be strictly limited to the
capability of the public sewage treatment works to treat the unusual wastes
without affecting the operation, maintenance or effluent quality of the
facility and the special agreements or arrangements must be shown by the
industry to be the most cost-effective solution to their problem and that the
monetary compensation as the town may receive will satisfy the financial
demands created in order to treat the wastes from both an operation and
maintenance standpoint and a capital investment standpoint. Any special
agreement shall be in compliance with applicable federal and state pretreatment
standards.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.11 DETERMINATION OF CHARACTER AND STRENGTH OF WASTES.
   (A)   The industrial and/or other pollutants being discharged by any person
into the sanitary sewerage system shall be subject to periodic inspection. A
determination of character and strength of the wastes may be made annually, or
more often as may be deemed necessary by the Director or his or her authorized
assistants.
   (B)   Samples shall be collected manually or mechanically over such period
of time and composited in such a manner as to be representative of the wastes
being discharged. The laboratory methods followed in the examination of the
wastes shall be those as set forth in the latest edition of Standard Methods as
defined in §
53.03 above.
   (C)   (1)   The determination of the character, strength, or quantity of the
wastes as made by the Director, or his or her authorized assistants, shall be
binding as a basis for computation of charges, or for actions by the Town
Council. When required by the person discharging, the samples shall be split to
permit analysis by the discharger, or a qualified independent laboratory.
      (2)   The person discharging wastes may perform additional sampling and
analyses or request additional sampling and analyses which will be performed,
as soon as practical, with all costs, as determined by the town, being borne by
the discharger. The town and the discharger shall split all samples collected
to permit analysis.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.12 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   Waters or wastes that are otherwise acceptable for discharge to
sanitary sewers, but which have a BOD in excess of 300 parts per million or a
suspended solids content in excess of 300 parts per million, will be subject to
a surcharge based on the excess strength as compared to normal sewage as
defined herein; the surcharge being necessary to compensate the town for the
extra cost of treating those wastes.
   (B)   Sewer use surcharges shall be imposed where the concentration of BOD,
or suspended solids exceeds those limits, as prescribed for "normal sewage".
More specifically, where BOD concentrations exceed 300 mg/l, COD concentrations
exceed 750 mg/l or suspended solids concentrations exceed 3,400 mg/l, a
surcharge will be imposed.
   (C)   In addition where any new user flows are in excess of 10% of the
design capacity of the POTW to which they are discharged, a surcharge shall be
imposed on that excessive flow.
   (D)   Charges shall either be assessed on excessive BOD or COD loads and not
on both parameters; provided that one or both parameters exceed allowable
concentrations as previously stipulated, and on that parameter which exhibits
the greater pollution load on the town's facilities.
   (E)   The amount of each waste constituent subject to a surcharge shall be
determined in accordance with the following equation:
PBOD   = (ib-300 mg/l (8.34 x If)
PCOD   = (iC – 750 mg/l)   8.34 x If)
PSS   = (IS – 300 mg/l)   (8.34 x If)
F   = (I2f – 10% If)
Where:
IB   = Concentration of industrial BOD in mg/l.
If   = Industrial flow in million gallons per day.
IC   = Concentration of industrial COD in mg/l.
IS   = Concentration of industrial suspended solids in mg/l.
P   = Pounds of waste constituent in hundreds subject to surcharge.
F   = Excessive flow subject to surcharge in gallons per day.
D   = Design flow of the treatment works to which the user's wastewater is
discharged in gallons per day.
12f   = Industrial flow in gallons per day.
   (F)   The amount of the surcharge will be determined by the following
factors.
   (G)   The amount of surcharge rates shall be as designated by the Town
Council and shall be on file in the Clerk's office.
   (H)   The surcharge rates shall be reviewed at least annually by the Town
Council in consideration of the costs to the town incurred by treating the
excessive wastes, including fixed charges, debt service charges, and operation
and maintenance costs. The Town Council shall review the recommended rates and
adopt rates to be charged during the ensuing fiscal year or until revised by
the Town Council.
   (I)   The volume of flow used in calculating the amount of surcharge will be
based upon the metered water consumption or as determined by the methods
described in §
53.09 above.
   (J)   The surcharges shall be based on the analytical results of not less
than three 24-hour composite samples collected at the control manhole at
unannounced, but approximately equal, intervals during the preceding three
months. Samples shall be collected and analyses shall be made by competent
operating personnel at the sewage treatment plant or other persons designated
by the town in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater. When requested by the discharger, the
samples shall be split to permit analysis by the discharger, or a qualified
independent laboratory.
   (K)   Each person discharging liquid wastes into the public sewer shall be
subject to periodic inspection to determine the character and concentration of
the wastes.
      (1)   The concentration of the BOD, COD and SS shall be determined by the
town in such manner as to provide a typical, representative sample.
      (2)   The costs incident to the supervision, inspection, sampling and
analyses for regularly scheduled sampling shall be included in the surcharge
fees.
      (3)   The town shall also make inspection and tests immediately after any
significant process changes, which may affect the quantity or quality of wastes
discharged.
      (4)   The frequency of sampling shall be as follows:
         (a)   When the amount of the surcharge is $500 or less per month,
samples shall be taken twice per year;
         (b)   When the amount of the surcharge is between $500 and $1,000 per
month, samples shall be taken three times per year; and
         (c)   When the amount of the surcharge is greater than $1,000 per
month, samples shall be taken four times per year.
   (L)   (1)   The town, upon request by the industry concerned, shall make
available a split sample of the composite samples collected. If the industry
feels the results are not representative of their wastes, the town shall
resample at a cost to the industry of $100 per day which will include the
analyses of BOD, COD and SS.
      (2)   All surcharges on excessive strength wastes as delineated herein
shall be computed each month in accordance with this section and be rendered in
addition to the normal monthly service charges.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.13 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter the
appropriate premises for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Director or his or her representatives shall have no authority to inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper,
textiles or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewers, waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Director or duly authorized employees of the town
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
person; and the person shall be held harmless for injury or death to the town
employees; and the town shall indemnify the person against loss or damage to
its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury, death or property damage asserted against the person and
growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused
by negligence or failure of the person to maintain safe conditions as required
in §
53.10(A) above.
   (C)   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the town bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for sewage
works for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair
and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within the easement.
All entry and subsequent works, if any, on the easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.14 PROTECTION OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, or willfully, break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment, which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
   (B)   No person shall maliciously or willfully break, damage, destroy,
deface, tamper with or remove any equipment or materials used by the town for
the purpose of making waste examinations and waste flow measurements, and left
upon the premises of a person discharging wastes into the sanitary sewerage
system. Only persons authorized by the Director will be allowed to uncover,
adjust, maintain and remove the equipment and materials.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.15 REVIEWING AUTHORITY AND AMENDMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Council shall be the reviewing authority for all
appeals of actions or administrative determinations under the provision of this
chapter.
      (2)   Notice of intent to appeal and the request for a hearing shall be
addressed to the Mayor or the Town Council in writing and shall detail the
nature of the appeal. The Town Council and the appellant promptly notified in
writing shall set an early date for the hearing.
      (3)   The decision of the Town Council after the hearing shall be final
and conclusive and shall be conveyed to the persons involved in writing.
   (B)   The Town Council expressly reserves the absolute right to amend,
modify, rescind or supplement this chapter, except as provided otherwise in §
53.17 below.
   (C)   The Town Council will adopt and modify from time to time a separate
rate ordinance to supplement this chapter.
   (D)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as preventing the
execution of a contract, special agreement or arrangement between the Town
Council and any person whereby water or wastewaters of unusual strength,
character or quantity may be admitted into the sanitary sewerage system upon
the terms and conditions as the Town Council deems appropriate. However, any
such contract, special agreement or arrangement shall not be less stringent
than any applicable federal pretreatment standard or categorical regulation
pursuant to § 307 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317.
   (E)   Variances to the provisions of the ordinance, including any permit
conditions imposed pursuant thereto, may be granted at the reasonable
discretion of the Director, who shall state the reasons for his decision in
writing. The Town Council may appeal the decision of the Director.
   (F)   The town shall consider petitions to add, modify or delete provisions
of this chapter as federal and state regulations change or for other good and
just cause.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Director shall endeavor to assure compliance with the requirements
of this chapter by conference and persuasion. If such efforts, over a
reasonable period of time, are futile, the Director shall take formal action as
provided hereafter.
   (B)   In any case involving a person who is discharging waste into the
sanitary sewerage system and where the Director finds that the person has
failed to pay any applicable and duly adopted sewer use charges within the time
limits prescribed for the payments, the procedure for enforcement shall be as
follows.
      (1)   The Director shall give notice to the person by registered mail
stating the specifics of the failure of compliance and requiring that person
remedy the failure within 72 hours.
      (2)   If, after the expiration of 72 hours, the person has not remedied
the failure, the Director shall report the facts to the Town Council in
writing.
      (3)   The Town Council may thereupon without further notice, cause the
water service from the public water system to be discontinued for the person or
cause the connection to the sanitary sewer system to be severed for the person.
      (4)   In any case where water service is discontinued or the Town Council
for enforcement purposes severs the sewer connection, the restoration of the
service shall be conditioned on full compliance by the person and payment of
any expense incurred in the enforcement proceeding and in the restoration of
service.
      (5)   The Town Council may, in its discretion, continue or restore water
or sewer service in a case of failure of compliance on condition that the
person furnish a bond or other security, with terms as specified by the Town
Council, to hold harmless the town from any loss or expense that it may incur
as a result of the noncompliance or any future noncompliance. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable to the town
for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the town by reason of the violation.
   (C)   In any case involving a person who fails to comply with any section of
this chapter but who is not discharging waste into the sanitary sewerage
system, the Director shall give notice to the person by registered mail stating
the specifics of the failure of compliance and requiring that the person
promptly remedy the failure. At the same time, the Director shall report the
facts of such case, in writing, to the Town Council and to such other
government agency, as may have jurisdiction and power to take appropriate
enforcement action.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of
not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for not more than six months, or by
both.
   (E)   (1)   Whenever the town finds that any discharger has violated or is
violating this chapter, or any prohibition, limitation or requirements
contained herein, the town may serve upon such person written notice stating
the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date of the notice, a plan
for the satisfactory correction thereof shall be submitted to the town by the
discharger.
      (2)   The town may order any discharger who causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the Town Council
why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be
served on the discharger specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held
by the Town Council regarding the violation, the reasons why the action is to
be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the discharger to show
cause before the Town Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, at least ten days before the hearing.
Services may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (3)   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony taken must
be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript so recorded, will
be made available to any member of the public or any party to the hearing.
      (4)   After the Town Council has reviewed the evidence, it may issue an
order to the discharger responsible for the discharge directing that, following
a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall have been
installed on existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of an agreement between the town and Deering Milliken, Inc.,
(Milliken and Company) dated August 1, 1968 shall remain in full force and
effect until such time as the agreement shall be terminated, all provisions
thereof shall supersede the conflicting provisions of this chapter. All non-
conflicting provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to Deering Milliken,
Inc. (Milliken and Company). Upon termination of the agreement, this section
shall be null and void.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
§ 53.18 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all users of the sanitary
sewer system of the town regardless of whether the user is located within or
without the town limits.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
GREASE AND OIL CONTROL
§ 53.30 SCOPE AND PURPOSE.
   To aid in the prevention of sanitary sewer blockages and obstructions from
contributions and accumulation of fats, oils, and greases into the sanitary
sewer system from industrial or commercial establishments, particularly food
preparation and serving facilities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FATS, OILS, and GREASES. Organic polar compounds derived from animal and/ or
plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules. These
substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in the United States Code of Federal Regulations 40 C.F.R. pt. 136,
as may be amended from time to time. All are sometimes referred to herein as
GREASE or GREASES.
   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS. Those establishments primarily engaged in
activities of preparing, serving, or otherwise making available for consumption
by the public such as restaurants, commercial kitchens, caterers, hotels,
schools, hospitals, prisons, correctional facilities, and care institutions.
These establishments use one or more of the following preparation activities:
cooking by frying (all methods), baking (all methods), grilling, sauteing,
rotisserie cooking, broiling (all methods), boiling, blanching, roasting,
toasting, or poaching. Also included are infrared heating, searing, barbecuing,
and any other food preparation activity that produces a hot, non-drinkable food
product in or on a receptacle that requires washing.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR. A structure or device designed for the purpose of
removing and preventing fats, oils, and grease from entering the sanitary sewer
collection system. These devices are often below-ground units in outside areas
and are built as two- or three-chamber baffled tanks.
   GREASE TRAP. A device for separating and retaining waterborne greases and
grease complexes prior to the wastewater exiting the trap and entering the
sanitary sewer collection and treatment system. Such traps are typically
compact under-the-sink units that are near food preparation areas.
   MINIMUM DESIGN CAPABILITY. The design features of a grease interceptor and
its ability or volume required to effectively intercept and retain greases from
grease-laden wastewaters discharged to the public sanitary sewer.
   USER. Any person, including those located outside the jurisdictional limits
of the town who contributes, causes or permits the contribution or discharge of
wastewater into sewers within the town's boundaries, including persons who
contribute such wastewater from mobile sources, such as those who discharge
hauled wastewater.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.32 FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All permitted food service establishments discharging wastewater to
the town's sanitary sewer collection system are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Grease interceptor requirements. All permitted food service
establishments are required to install, operate, and maintain an approved type
and adequately sized grease interceptor necessary to maintain compliance with
the objectives of this subchapter. All grease interceptors must meet the
requirements of the town's Plumbing Code.
      (2)   Implementation.
         (a)   All new food service establishment facilities are subject to
grease interceptor requirements. All such facilities must obtain prior approval
from the Public Works Director/Town Engineer for grease interceptor sizing
prior to submitting plans for a building permit All grease interceptors shall
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Existing
facilities with planned modification in plumbing improvements, with a building
permit evaluation of $20,000 or more will be required to include plans to
comply with the grease interceptor requirements. These facilities must obtain
approval from the Public Works Director/Town Engineer for grease interceptor
sizing prior to submitting plans for a building permit.
         (b)   All existing food service establishments, determined by the
Public Works Director/Town Engineer, to have a reasonable potential to
adversely impact the town's sewer system will be notified of their obligation
to install a grease interceptor within the specified period set forth in the
notification letter.
      (3)   Variance from grease interceptor requirements. Grease interceptors
required under this subchapter shall be installed unless the Public Works
Director/Town Engineer authorizes the installation of an indoor grease trap or
other alternative pretreatment technology and determines that the installation
of a grease interceptor would not be feasible. The food service establishment
bears the burden of demonstrating that the installation of a grease interceptor
is not feasible. The Public Works Director/ Town Engineer may authorize the
installation of an indoor grease trap where the installation of a grease
interceptor is not feasible due to space constraints or other considerations.
If an establishment believes the installation of a grease interceptor is
infeasible, because of documented space constraints, the request for an
alternate grease removal device shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Location of sewer main and easement in relation to available
exterior space outside building; and
         (b)   Existing plumbing at or in a site that uses common plumbing for
all services at that site.
   (B)   Alternative pretreatment technology includes, but is not limited to,
devices that are used to trap, separate and hold grease from wastewater and
prevent it from being discharged into the sanitary sewer collection system. All
alternative pretreatment technology must be appropriately sized and approved by
the Public Works Director/Town Engineer.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.33 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS.
   No user shall allow wastewater discharge concentration from subject grease
interceptor, grease trap or alternative pretreatment technology to exceed 100
milligrams per liter, as defined by method EPA test method 1664.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.34 GREASE INTERCEPTOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Grease interceptor sizing and installation shall conform to the
current edition of the Uniform Plumbing Code.
   (B)   Grease interceptors shall be constructed in accordance with a design
approved by the Public Works Director/Town Engineer and shall have a minimum of
two compartments with fittings designed for grease retention.
   (C)   A grease interceptor shall be installed at a location where it shall
be easily accessible for inspection, cleaning, and removal of intercepted
grease. The grease interceptor may not be installed in any part of the building
where food is handled. The location of the grease interceptor must meet the
approval of the Public Works Director/Town Engineer.
   (D)   All grease interceptors shall be serviced and emptied of accumulated
waste content as required in order to maintain minimum design capability or
effective volume. These devices should be inspected at least monthly. Users who
are required to maintain a grease interceptor shall:
      (1)   Provide for a minimum hydraulic retention time in accordance with
the Uniform Plumbing Code; and
      (2)   Remove any accumulated grease cap and sludge pocket as required.
Grease interceptors shall be kept free of inorganic solid materials such as
grit, rocks, gravel, sand, eating utensils, cigarettes, shells, towels, rags,
and the like, which could settle into this pocket and thereby reduce the
effective volume of the device.
   (E)   All records will be made available for on-site inspection by
representative of the town during all operating hours.
   (F)   Sanitary wastes are not allowed to be connected to sewer lines
intended for grease interceptor service.
   (G)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this subchapter, although installation of grease interceptors will be
required, no enforcement actions will be taken under this subchapter for
failure to achieve limits on grease discharges from grease interceptors. If,
during this one-year period, an obstruction of a sewer main(s) occurs that
causes a sewer overflow to the extent that an impact on the environment is
realized and if the overflow or failure of the sanitary sewer collection system
to convey sewage can be attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of
grease in the sewer main(s), the town will take appropriate enforcement
actions, as stipulated in the Industrial Pretreatment Enforcement Plan and
Sewer Use Ordinance, against the generator or contributor of the grease.
   (H)   Access manholes, with a minimum diameter of 24 inches, shall be
provided over each grease interceptor chamber and sanitary tee. The access
manholes shall extend at least to finished grade and be designed and maintained
to prevent water inflow or infiltration. The manholes shall also have readily
removable covers to facilitate inspection, grease removal, and wastewater
sampling activities.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.35 GREASE TRAP REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon approval by the Public Works Director/Town Engineer, a grease
trap complying with the provisions of this section must be installed in the
waste line leading from sinks, drains, and other fixtures or equipment in food
service establishments where grease may be introduced into the drainage or
sewage system in quantities that can effect line stoppage or hinder sewage
treatment or private sewage disposal.
   (B)   Grease traps sizing and installation shall conform to the Uniform
Plumbing Code.
   (C)   No grease trap shall be installed which has a stated rate flow of more
than 55 gallons per minute, nor less than 20 gallons per minute, except when
specially approved by the Public Works Director/Town Engineer.
   (D)   Grease traps shall be maintained in efficient operating conditions by
periodic removal of the accumulated grease. No such collected grease shall be
introduced into any drainage piping, or public or private sewer.
   (E)   Wastewater in excess of 140°F/60°C shall not be discharged into a
grease trap.
   (F)   Except as provided herein, for a period of one year following adoption
of this subchapter, although installation of grease traps will be required, no
enforcement actions will be taken under this subchapter for failure to achieve
limits on grease discharges from the facility. If, during this one-year period,
an obstruction of a sewer main(s) occurs that causes a sewer overflow to the
extent that an impact on the environment is realized and the overflow or
failure of the sanitary sewer collection system to convey sewage can be
attributed in part or in whole to an accumulation of grease in the sewer main
(s), the town will take appropriate enforcement actions, as stipulated in the
Industrial Pretreatment Enforcement Plan and Sewer Use Ordinance, against the
generator or contributor of such grease.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any unauthorized connection to the town sewer system, and for every day of
violation of this chapter thereafter, constitute a separate misdemeanor
punishable by not more than $500 fine nor more than 30 days imprisonment, or
both for each count. Notwithstanding this, the Town Council may in lieu of
criminal prosecution, utilize any civil remedies, including an action for
damages and or for injunctive and other equitable relief.
(Ord. 97-11-07, passed 11-6-1997)
CHAPTER 54: BRUSH ORDINANCE
Section
   
54.01   Handling of certain garbage, brush, leaves and the like
§ 54.01 HANDLING OF CERTAIN GARBAGE, BRUSH, LEAVES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No tree limbs, shrubbery, cuttings, leaves, and other similar matter
will be collected unless such matter can meet the following guidelines:
      (1)   All grass clippings and yard debris to be placed in bags or water
resistant containers that can be loaded by one person. Must not include trash
(plastic, glass, etc.)
      (2)   Large limbs must be cut so that one person can load them. No trees,
stumps, lumber, metal, shingles, appliances, bedding, furniture, homeowner
construction material, etc. will be picked up.
      (3)   Leaves are to be placed in bags for pick-up.
      (4)   No brush will be picked up by the town in which the cutting has
been hired out. It is the contracted person or property owner’s responsibility
to dispose of these cuttings.
      (5)   No brush will be picked up that has been hauled in from other
locations.
      (6)   Clearing of lots or other large areas require advance pickup
arrangements made at the Town Hall. The Town Manager may, at his or her
discretion, approve the arrangement and may set a reasonable fee to cover the
town’s collection and disposal expenses.
   (B)   Any other brush collection requests not complying with the foregoing
conditions will be collected by the town only under special arrangements made
by the owner with the Town Manager. The Town Manager may approve, at his or her
discretion, the arrangements and may set a reasonable fee to cover the town's
collection and disposal expenses.
   (C)   Yearly leaf pick-up via the leaf vacuum will begin on the third Monday
of November and will end on the second Friday of January of the next year.
(Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 11-20-2014)
CHAPTER 55: SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL
Section
   
55.01   Solid waste disposal
   
55.01   Recycling
   
55.03   Dumping in third party dumpsters
§ 55.01 SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The occupant of each building, premises or place where garbage does or
may exist within the town limits will be provided solid waste disposal
services. This service will be contracted by and between the occupant and the
town.
   (B)   A schedule of solid waste collection fees shall be set forth in the
town schedule of fees and the town may revise the fees at any time.
   (C)   The solid waste collection fees shall be charged to the monthly
utility bills. Any utility bill payment will be applied first to the solid
waste portion of the bill.
   (D)   Charges will be assessed whether services are used or not.
   (E)   The occupant of each building, premises or place may provide himself
or herself with a garbage can or cans in which he or she shall deposit all
garbage existing at the place occupied by him or her.
      (1)   The can or cans shall be provided with handles and with a tight-
fitting cover. The cover shall remain on the cans at all times whenever garbage
is deposited in the cans to keep insects, rodents, small animals and other
pests away from the garbage, and to make the cans water-tight.
      (2)    The occupant of each resident or place where garbage does or may
exist shall be provided, by the town, a garbage can or cans in which he or she
shall deposit all garbage existing at place occupied by him or her. The can or
cans shall be provided with handles and with a tight-fitting cover the cover to
remain on the cans at all times whenever garbage is deposited in the cans to
keep insects, rodents, small animals and other pests away from the garbage, and
to make the cans water-tight. The cans shall be a 96-gallon size with rollers
that can be conveniently handled by a garbage collector.
   (F)   All garbage and other refuse referred to above must be put in cans as
specified above and placed on the street prior to 6:00 a.m. on Tuesday of each
week (this being the day on which garbage and other refuse will be picked up).
All garbage or other refuse must be placed in the can. No garbage or refuse
will be picked up if same is not set near the margin of street or roadway where
it is convenient for collectors to reach the can.
   (G)   The occupant of each building, premises or place may at any time
contact the town and request to receive more than one pickup per week. Any
additional pickups will be charged according to the schedule of fees.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-19-2015; Am. Ord. passed 4-18-2024)
§ 55.02 RECYCLING
   (A)   The occupant of each building, premises or place where garbage does or
may exist within the Columbus town limits will be provided recycling services.
This service will be contracted by and between the occupant and the town.
   (B)   The occupant of each building, premises or place may provide himself
or herself with a recycling can or bin in which he or she shall deposit all
recyclable materials existing at the place occupied by him or her. The can or
bin shall be of a size that can be conveniently handled by a garbage collector
(not to exceed in holding capacity more than 30 gallons) if cans are used.
   (C)   The town shall post a recycling schedule at Town Hall. All recycling
must be put in cans or bins as specified above and placed on the street prior
to 7:00 a.m. on pickup days. No recycling will be picked up if same is not set
near margin of street or roadway where it is convenient for collectors to reach
same.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-19-2015)
§ 55.03 DUMPING IN THIRD PARTY DUMPSTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit trash, garbage or other
residue in any dumpster or trash container within the corporate limits of the
town which is on some other person or entity’s property and which dumpster or
trash container is not being charged as a monthly garbage pickup fee by the
town to the person, or the person’s business or employer, who makes the deposit
of trash, garbage or other residue. Violation of this provision shall be a
Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a $50 fine pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-19-2015; Am. Ord, passed 3-20-2025)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES
         
71.   SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE
         
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
         
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
         
75.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
70.01   General provisions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or allow another person to operate, on the
streets, sidewalks, alleys, highways or upon the property of any person, firm
or corporation, without permission of the owner thereof, situated within the
corporate limits of the town any motorcycles, motorbikes, motor scooters, trail
bikes, motorized bicycles and similar motor vehicles unless the motor vehicle
is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in constant operation to
prevent excessive or unusual noise, annoying smoke and smoke screens, a muffler
in good working order shall be a muffler equivalent to the muffler equivalent
to the muffler that the motor vehicles are equipped with by the manufacturer of
the same and in the event the muffler shall be equipped with a cut off whereby
the noise of the muffler can be increased or decreased, the muffler shall be at
all times set in the position to cause the least noise.
   (B)   No person shall operate or allow to be operated any of the type of
motor vehicles enumerated in the caption of this section upon the sidewalks
within the town or upon the property owned by any person, firm or corporation,
without the permission of the owner thereof, within the corporate limits of the
town.
   (C)   No person shall allow any person without a valid operator's license to
operate any of the motor vehicles enumerated in the caption of this chapter
within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1971) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any section of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be fined not more than $50 or
imprisoned for not more than ten days. Violation of this chapter shall be
within the exclusive jurisdiction of the duly appointed magistrates of the
county, but nothing herein shall prevent a party being found guilty of
violating §
70.01 of having the absolute right of appeal to the Superior Court of the
county, whereupon the case shall be tried de novo before a jury.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1971)
CHAPTER 71: SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
71.01   General provisions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   No person shall ride any roller skates, skateboard, scooter, coaster, toy
vehicle, in-line skates or similar device upon any sidewalk, street, parking
lot, public park or public property in the Central Business District (CBD),
Highway Commercial District (HC), Industrial District (IND) or Public Service
District (PS) of the town. Violation of this provision shall be a Class 3
misdemeanor punishable by a $50 fine pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 6-21-2007; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty on
second and subsequent offenses within 12 months in an amount as determined by
the Town Council from time to time and as set forth in the town's schedule of
fees and charges. Where the violation of this chapter is by a minor, the civil
penalty shall be charged against the minor's parents. Any roller skate, in-line
skates, skateboard, coaster, toy vehicle or similar device used in the
violation of this section shall be subject to forfeiture.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 6-21-2007)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
72.01   Parking, standing and stopping
   
72.02   Parking and the Police Department
Specific Regulations
   
72.15   Parking time limited in particular block
   
72.16   Parking signs required
   
72.17   Disabled parking spaces
   
72.18   Reservation and designation
   
72.19   Enforcement
   
72.20   Appeal
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 72.01 PARKING, STANDING AND STOPPING.
   (A)   No person shall park or leave standing any vehicle, whether attended
or unattended, upon the paved or main traveled portion of any street on the
town unless the vehicle is disabled to such an extent that it is impossible to
avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the vehicle upon the paved or main
traveled portion of the street.
   (B)   The operator of any truck, trailer or semi-trailer which is disabled
upon any portion of any street in the town shall display warning signals not
less than 50 feet on the front and rear of the vehicle. During daylight hours,
those warning signals shall consist of red flags. During hours of darkness, the
warning signals shall consist of red flares or reflectors of a type approved by
the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles. The warning signals shall be displayed as
long as the vehicle is disabled.
   (C)   The owner of any vehicle parked or left standing wholly or partially
upon the paved or main traveled portion of a public street shall be deemed to
have appointed any investigation law-enforcement officer his or her agent for
the purpose of removing the vehicle to the shoulder of the street when the
removal is, in the judgment of the officer, necessary.
   (D)   When any vehicle is parked or left standing upon the right-of-way of a
public street within the town for a period of 48 hours or more, the owner shall
be deemed to have appointed any investigating law enforcement officer his or
her agent for the purpose of arranging for the transportation and safe storage
of the vehicle and the investigating law enforcement officer shall be deemed a
legal possessor of the motor vehicle within the meaning of that term as it
appears in G.S. § 44A-2(d) of the laws of the state.
   (E)   When any vehicle is parked or left standing within view from the
public streets of the town on any private or public property, without being
used or operated for a period of 30 days, the motor vehicle should be deemed
abandoned by the owner thereof and the owner and the owner of the land upon
which the vehicle is situated shall be deemed to have appointed any law-
enforcement officer his or her agent for the purpose of arranging for the
transportation and removal of the vehicle to a safe storage place for the
vehicle and the law enforcement officer shall be deemed a legal possessor of
the motor vehicle for those purposes. It being understood, however, that this
division (E) shall not apply to any motor vehicle that is parked within a
carport or garage.
   (F)   Any motor vehicle being transported or towed away to a location for
the purpose of storage of the same the owner of the vehicle shall not be
entitled to the possession thereof until the expenses incurred in the
transportation of the vehicle or towing of the vehicle to the person who
furnished the service of transportation or towing the same or until the person
furnishing the storage area for the vehicle is paid in full for the storage.
   (G)   In the event a motor vehicle remains stored under this section for a
period of 30 days the person furnishing the storage is hereby authorized to
sell the vehicle for the storage bill and to pay the expenses of transporting
or towing the motor vehicle to the storage area.
(Ord. I-72, passed 1-2-1972) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PARKING AND THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be illegal to park in areas duly prohibited by the
Police Department and thereafter clearly marked accordingly on the streets of
the town as well as thereafter clearly marked accordingly in parking areas of
shopping centers where written request to so regulate has been previously
received by the town. CLEARLY MARKED shall be defined as marked so that a
reasonable and prudent person would understand that parking had been prohibited
in that particular spot.
   (B)   The Police Department is herein empowered and instructed to prepare a
parking citation suitable for the violations and thereafter utilize the parking
violation citations to cite offending vehicles. Service of the citation shall
be presumed delivered by placement of the citation under the windshield wiper
of the offending motor vehicle.
   (C)   The person, firm or corporation in whose name the vehicle is
registered and licensed according to the records of the department or agency or
the state, by whatever name designated, which is empowered to register the
vehicles and to issue licenses for their operation upon the streets and
highways of this state, shall be prima facie the violator as per the provision
of G.S. § 20-162.1. In the event the officer issuing the citation pursuant to
this section knows the person in charge of the vehicle at the time of the
offense, the officer shall cite the offending driver in lieu of the registered
vehicle owner.
(Ord. passed 1-7-1993) Penalty, see §
72.99
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 72.15 PARKING TIME LIMITED IN PARTICULAR BLOCK.
   (A)   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than the total period of time specified, or
within the hours specified within the same block upon any of the streets
designated in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in
the office of the Town Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle either at the
same place or at two or more places or parking spaces within the same block for
a combined total parked period in the same town block, during the regulated
hours, in excess of the permitted period prescribed in this regulation. The
phrase BLOCK as used in this section shall mean the portion of a street lying
between the nearest crossing intersectional streets and shall not include other
streets running parallel, at right angles or otherwise, to the street upon
which the vehicle may be parked.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.16 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   Whenever by this or any other provision any parking time limit is imposed or
parking is prohibited on designated streets there shall be appropriate signs
giving notice thereof and no such regulations shall be effective unless the
signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
§ 72.17 DISABLED PARKING SPACES.
   Certain parking spaces may be designated for use by disabled persons only.
No person shall park a motor vehicle, which does not have displayed in the
appropriate location on the motor vehicle, a decal, sticker, tag and the like,
issued by the state signifying that one or more persons in the motor vehicle
are disabled, in any parking space designated as disabled parking.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.18 RESERVATION AND DESIGNATION.
   From time to time one or more parking spaces in the parking spaces described
in ordinance may be reserved and designated for the use of one particular
person by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
§ 72.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   It will be the responsibility of the Town Police Department to enforce this
subchapter. Notifications of violation of parking regulations may be by placing
a parking ticket on the offending vehicle.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
§ 72.20 APPEAL.
   A person notified of a violation may appeal the determination to the Town
Council. The appeal must be filed in writing with the town not later than ten
days after the receipt of the notice. Failure to timely file an appeal shall
constitute acceptance of the determination that a violation exists, and waiver
of the right to appeal.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in the town's fee schedule.
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Truck routes
   
III.   Provisional road closures
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   The Police Department shall see that appropriate signs are posted
along Walker Street, advising the public and traffic as to the speed limit
hereinabove set forth, and the Police Department will hereinafter enforce same.
Hereafter, unless otherwise posted, all speed limits in the town shall be 25
mph.
Street  Location                                                                       Speed Time
                                                                                       Limit
Houston
Road    From Walker Street (S.R. 1137) to the western corporate limit, approximately   35    –
(S.R.   0.50 mile west of Mills Street                                                 mph
1137)
Mills
Street  From Blanton Street to the northern corporate limit, approximately 0.35 mile   25    –
(N.C.   north of Blanton Street                                                        mph
108)
Peak    Beginning at the intersection of Peak and N.C. Highway #108 and extending to   25    –
Street  town limits                                                                    mph
Simms
Street  From Walker Street (S.R. 1137) to the southern corporate limit, approximately  25    –
(S.R.   0.33 mile south of S.R. 1514                                                   mph
1137)
Walker  Beginning at N.C. Highway #108 and continuing to the intersection of Walker    25    –
Street  Street and Peniel Road, and continuing on Peniel to the town limits            mph
Walker
Street  From Mills Street (N.C. 108) to Houston Road (S.R. 1137)                       35    –
(S.R.                                                                                  mph
1137)
        From its intersection with Peniel Road (S.R. 1137) and Simms Street (known
Walker  locally as the “four way”); thence from the beginning point heading south, 25    –
Street  west and northwest on Walker Street, until it again intersects Peniel Road     mph
        (S.R. 1137) above Wheeler Street
 
   (B)   Rescind the following speed limits:
 
Speed Limit Location Number Description
45          1               Mills Street (N.C. 108), from Blanton to the
                            northern corporate limit
45          2               Walker Street (S.R. 1137), from Mills Street (N.C.
                            108) to Houston Road (S.R. 1137)
45          3               Houston Road (S.R. 1137), from Walker Street (S.R.
                            1137) to the western corporate limit
45          4               Simms Street (S.R. 1137), from Walker Street (S.R.
                            1137) to the eastern corporate limit
35          5               Mills Street (N.C. 108), from Blanton to Park Sheet
                            (per NCDOT approval)
 
   (C)   A violation of this schedule shall be punishable as per G.S. Ch. 20.
Speeding in excess of 15 mph over the posted speed limit shall be punishable as
per G.S. § 20-14(j)(1).
(Ord. passed 10-6-1964; Ord. passed 9-9-1969; Ord. passed 9-9-1969; Ord. 61,
passed 2-15-2000; Ord. 2008-02, passed 1-23-2008; Ord. 2008-03, passed 2-21-
2008; Am. Ord. 2011-1, passed 7-21-2011)
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK ROUTES.
   North Carolina Hwy #74 is designated as a truck route.
(Ord. 2008-01, passed 1-23-2008)
SCHEDULE III. PROVISIONAL ROAD CLOSURES.
   (A)   Holiday road closures.
      (1)   Fabulous Fourth of July road closure.
         (a)   The Town Council of the Town of Columbus pursuant to the
authority granted by G.S. 20-169 does hereby declare a temporary road closure
during the date and time set forth below on the following described portion of
a State Highway System route:
               Date: July 4
               Time: 5:00 a.m. to 11:59 p.m.
               Route Description: W. Mills St. (NC Hwy 108) between the
intersection of Houston Road and Walker Street and the intersection of North
and South Peak Street.
         (b)   This division (A)(1) to become effective when signs are erected
giving notice of the limits and times of the celebration, and implementation of
adequate traffic control to guide through vehicles around the celebration area.
(Ord. 2015-06, passed 9-17-2015)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Limited parking
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED PARKING.
 
Street Location                     Side  Time Description Date Passed
Mills  Gibson east to Blanton       South Two-hour parking 4-15-2003
Ward   Gibson east to disabled ramp North Anytime          4-15-2003
 
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 75: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
75.01   Purpose
   
75.02   Definitions
   
75.03   Rules and regulations
   
75.04   Registration, inspection and fee prior to usage
   
75.05   Enforcement
§ 75.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The establishment of a golf cart chapter is necessary to address the
interests of public safety. Golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be
used on public streets, roads and highways (hereinafter "road(s)") and the Town
of Columbus in no way advocates or endorses their operation on roads. The Town
of Columbus by regulating such operation is intending to address obvious safety
issues, and adoption of this chapter is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on roads is safe or advisable if done in
accordance with this chapter. All persons who operate or ride upon golf carts
on roads do so at their own risk and peril and must be observant of and
attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their passengers,
other motorists, bicyclists, and pedestrians. The Town of Columbus has no
liability under any theory of liability for permitting carts to be operated on
roads under special legislation granted by the North Carolina Legislature. Any
person who operates a golf cart must procure liability insurance sufficient to
cover the risks involved in using a golf cart on the roads of the Town of
Columbus.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to promote the health, safety and
welfare of persons operating golf carts within the Town of Columbus and to
protect the safety of their passengers and other users of roads.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 75.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the following meanings:
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. A valid license issued to operate a motor vehicle issued
by the State of North Carolina or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. Liability insurance coverage on a golf cart in an
amount not less than required by North Carolina law for motor vehicles operated
on public highways in the State of North Carolina.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph. (G.S. § 20-4.01(12a))
   OPERATOR. Only persons 18 years of age or older and holding a valid driver's
license may operate a golf cart on roads.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 75.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts shall not be operated on or alongside a public road or
street with a posted speed limit greater than 35 mph.
   (B)   Golf carts may cross a road with a posted speed limit greater than 35
mph. However, once this segment of road has been traversed, the golf cart is
still required to travel only on or along a roadway with a speed limit of 35
mph or less. Golf carts must cross in a manner that is the most direct route in
order to decrease crossing distance; i.e. no riding along a road or crossing at
an angle. Under no circumstance is a golf cart allowed to cross a control
access facility other than at bridges which cross over or under a control
access facility.
   (C)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be responsible for all
liability associated with operation of the golf cart and must have liability
insurance coverage which will cover the use of a golf cart in an amount not
less than required by North Carolina law for motor vehicles operated on public
highways in the State of North Carolina.
   (D)   Any person who operates a golf cart must be at least 18 years of age
or older. No person may operate a golf cart unless that person is licensed to
drive upon the public streets, roads and highways of North Carolina, and then
only in accordance with such valid driver's license. Golf cart operators must
carry their driver's license on their person at all times while operating a
golf cart on public roads.
   (E)   Any person who operates a golf cart on public streets and roads must
adhere to all applicable state and local laws, regulations and ordinances,
including but not limited to those banning the possession and use of alcoholic
beverages, and all other illegal drugs. In addition, no golf cart containing
any open container of alcohol shall be operated on public roads. Any person
operating a golf cart shall ensure that his/her passengers do not have an open
container of alcohol prior to operation.
   (F)   The operator of the golf cart shall comply with all traffic rules and
regulations adopted by the State of North Carolina and the Town of Columbus
which govern the operation of motor vehicles.
   (G)   An operator may not allow the number of people in the golf cart at any
one time to exceed the maximum capacity specified by the manufacturer. The
operator shall not allow passengers to ride on any part of a golf cart not
designed to carry passengers, such as the part of the golf cart designed to
carry golf bags.
   (H)   In no instance shall a golf cart be operated at a speed greater than
20 mph. No golf cart may be operated at a speed greater than reasonable and
prudent for the existing conditions.
   (I)   Golf carts must be operated at the right edge of the roadway and must
yield to all vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
   (J)   Golf carts must park in designated spaces in such a manner that
multiple golf carts can utilize the space. All parking rules and limits apply.
No parking on sidewalks is allowed.
   (K)   Golf carts must have a vehicle identification number and basic
equipment including a rear view mirror and a rear triangle reflector of the
same type required by North Carolina law. In addition, the golf cart must have
brake lights and seat belts/safety restraints for any passenger under the age
of eight or under 80 pounds in weight. At no point should a golf cart be
operated after daylight hours without headlamps.
   (L)   Golf carts shall not be operated on sidewalks.
   (M)   Golf carts shall not be used to haul, and shall not have any trailer,
wagon, or the like affixed to the rear of the golf cart.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 75.04 REGISTRATION, INSPECTION AND FEE PRIOR TO USAGE.
   (A)   All golf carts must complete a golf cart permit registration
application and submit the same to the Town of Columbus for approval, along
with a $25 permit fee. Before driving on public roads, the operator of a golf
cart must have a valid, issued registration and sticker as provided by the Town
of Columbus, in addition to such proof of registration as may be otherwise
required by the State of North Carolina. The cost for the inspection shall be
an additional $25. The Chief of Police of the Town of Columbus, or his or her
designee, shall complete the inspection.
   (B)   Each owner must have proof of ownership, liability insurance (state
minimum for automobiles), and a completed waiver of liability releasing the
Town of Columbus from liability that may arise as a result of operation of a
golf cart inside the Town of Columbus. These documents must be in the golf cart
at all times while in operation on public roads.
   (C)   All golf carts must meet the requirements or minimum standards of
safety equipment as set forth above in this chapter and as required by the
North Carolina General Statutes.
   (D)   All golf cart operators must present a valid driver's license while
operating a golf cart on a public road.
   (E)   The registration sticker shall be valid for no more than one year and
must be visible on a golf cart operated on a public road.
   (F)   Lost or stolen permits/stickers are the responsibility of the owner
and must be replaced before the golf cart is operated on a public road. Any
such lost or stolen stickers shall be immediately reported to the Town Manager.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 9-17-2020)
§ 75.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute an
infraction in accordance with Chapter 20 of the North Carolina General Statutes
and any person found responsible for such violation shall be obligated to pay a
$50 fine.
   (B)   The Town Manager for the Town of Columbus may suspend a permit for
violation of this chapter as follows:
      (1)   For the first violation, the permit may be suspended for 30 days.
      (2)   For the second violation, the permit may be suspended for one year.
      (3)   For the third violation, the permit may be permanently suspended.
(Ord. 2020-02, passed 9-17-2020)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   NUISANCES AND ENVIRONMENT
         
91.   CONTROL OF ANIMALS
         
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
         
93.   FIRE ALARMS
         
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES AND ENVIRONMENT
Section
Environment
   
90.01   Definition
   
90.02   Findings; policy
   
90.03   Nuisances prohibited
   
90.04   Exceptions
   
90.05   Removal or abatement
   
90.06   Issuance of notice
   
90.07   Emergency action
   
90.08   Other nuisances not enumerated in this subchapter
   
90.09   Abatement by town; recovery of costs
Noise Regulations
   
90.21   Loud, disturbing noises prohibited
   
90.22   Definitions
   
90.23   Certain sounds prohibited
   
90.24   Permits for amplified sound
   
90.25   Outdoor amplification and music at commercial establishments
   
90.26   Sound measurement procedures
Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
90.35   Administration
   
90.36   Definitions
   
90.37   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal
   
90.38   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal
   
90.39   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal
   
90.40   Removal of vehicles; pre-towing notice requirements
   
90.41   Exceptions to prior to notice requirement
   
90.42   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.43   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.44   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.45   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.46   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.47   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.48   Exceptions
   
90.49   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Specific Nuisances
   
90.60   Weeds, garbage, refuse and the like
 
   
90.99   Penalty
ENVIRONMENT
§ 90.01 DEFINITION.
   For purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of property, or any act or omission affecting
the condition or use of property which directly threatens the safety of
citizens, or adversely affects the general health, happiness, security and
welfare of others, or is detrimental to the rights of others to the full use of
their own property and their own comfort, happiness and emotional stability
because of the decreased property values, and the unattractiveness and
livability of neighborhoods. Further, the Town Council finds and declares that
the following specific conditions are prejudicial to the general health, safety
and welfare of the town and its citizens, lessen the attractiveness and
livability of the town and when located on any lot or parcel of land within the
town limits of the town are a nuisance and therefore unlawful:
      (1)   Overgrowth or heavy growth of weed, bushes, poison oak, poison ivy
or other noxious vegetation or overgrowth of grass and weeds over ten inches in
height;
      (2)   Conditions which have become or will become, if not corrected, a
breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, snakes, rats or other pests;
      (3)   A collection place for lumber, brick, blocks, nails and building
materials unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by current
construction in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit;
      (4)   A collection place for garbage, food waste, litter, animal waste,
trash and refuse or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (5)   Rotten, damaged or dilapidated sheds, outbuildings, garages or
other uninhabited structures which have collapsed or partially collapsed or
pose a danger of fire or pose a risk to neighborhood children or to adjacent
property and property owners;
      (6)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals,
oils, gasoline, flammable liquids or other similar harmful or dangerous
substances, gases or vapors;
      (7)   A collection or storage place for old, worn-out, broken or
discarded machinery, car parts, junk, furniture, stoves, refrigerators and
appliances, cans or containers, household goods or plumbing and electrical
fixtures or other similar materials;
      (8)   A collection place or pool or pond of stagnant or foul water caused
by any human-made barn, dam, ditch or impoundment;
      (9)   A storage place or place of collection for broken bottles, glass,
tin, aluminum and other sharp, pointed, jagged or rusted metal;
      (10)   Barns, animal pens and enclosures, dog lots and runs or other
similar places that house animals and which are not kept in a sanitary
condition, attract flies and other pests or emit foul odors;
      (11)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage
from septic tanks;
      (12)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation or
other rubbish;
      (13)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or
other body of water of any dangerous substance or any other material likely to
harm the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or along the water or the
storage of such harmful materials and substances in a manner so that it is
likely that such streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies of water will be
polluted;
      (14)   Any conditions or use of property which results in the emission of
pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors and
stenches to be emitted into the air; and
      (15)   Any other act or condition declared to be a nuisance in the manner
provided in this section by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.02 FINDINGS; POLICY.
   (A)   The Town Council finds as a fact that there are many parcels of land
and vacant lots throughout the town which are overgrown with weeds and other
noxious growth, have become a collection place for trash, garbage, debris, junk
or other undesirable material or have specific unattractive conditions located
thereon. The Town Council further finds as a fact that such conditions
adversely affect one or more of the following:
      (1)   The safety of the citizens of the town;
      (2)   The general health and welfare of the citizens of the town;
      (3)   The health and safety of children who are attracted to such
conditions;
      (4)   The quality of urban attractiveness and aesthetic appearance of the
town;
      (5)   The protection of property values throughout the town;
      (6)   The preservation of the livability and attractiveness of
neighborhoods;
      (7)   The opportunities for full economic development of the town;
      (8)   The comfort, happiness and emotional stability of occupants of
property in the vicinity of unattractive conditions and nuisances; and
      (9)   The full use, ownership and enjoyment of property in the vicinity
of such conditions.
   (B)   It is policy of the town that each person is entitled to live in a
community which is generally safe and free of conditions which adversely affect
the general health and welfare of the community. Citizens also ought to have
the right to live in an attractive community free of litter, garbage and
unsightly junk especially when such conditions do not further individual rights
or ownership of property. To protect against such conditions, the town intends
to define, prohibit and restrain nuisances or to cause the nuisances to be
removed from the town.
   (C)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this subchapter, except that the Town Council may from time to
time designate others to administer and/or enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.03 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or cause a nuisance to be
created or for the owner, lessee, occupant, caretaker or person in possession
of any lot, parcel or tract of land in the town to create a nuisance or
otherwise permit, allow or suffer a nuisance to be created or to allow a
nuisance to remain on such property after it has been declared a nuisance.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §
90.03 above, the use of property for a lawful business or commercial purpose
pursuant to all required licenses and permits and in full compliance with the
zoning rules and regulations in effect in the town shall not be considered as a
nuisance so long as the use of the property and the conditions created thereon
further the lawful business use or commercial use.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.05 REMOVAL OR ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Upon investigation and discovery of any of the conditions set out in §
90.01 above, the Town Manager, or his or her agent, shall make a written report
of his findings and may order that appropriate corrective action be taken,
including the removal or abatement of the conditions by the person creating the
nuisance or by the owner, occupant or other person in possession of the
premises on which the nuisance is located.
   (B)   Prior to ordering the removal of unattractive conditions which do not
threaten the public safety or pose a general threat to the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the town, the Town Manager, or his or her
agent, shall first determine that the conditions are visible from adjacent
property or from a nearby street or highway and that the aesthetic benefits of
removing or correcting the conditions outweigh the burdens imposed upon the
private property owner. Those findings shall be based upon a balancing of
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing the community, neighborhood or area appearance
including protection of property values, indirect protection of public health
and safety, preservation of the character and integrity of the community and
the promotion of comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area residents.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.06 ISSUANCE OF NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Manager has determined that the conditions on a
particular lot or parcel of land are a nuisance and ought to be abated or
otherwise corrected, the Town Manager shall give notice to the owner, lessee or
other person in possession of the premises in writing setting forth his or her
findings and describing the appropriate corrective action.
   (B)   The Town Manager may establish a deadline not to exceed 60 days for
the abatement of the nuisance.
   (C)   The notice may be served upon owner, occupant or person in possession
of the premises as follows:
      (1)   By delivering a copy of the notice to the person or by leaving
copies thereof at the person's residence with some person of suitable age and
discretion then residing therein;
      (2)   By mailing a copy of the notice by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the person to be served and delivered to
the addressee;
      (3)   By delivering a copy of the notice to any officer, employee or
agent of a corporation, partnership or business; or
      (4)   If, after a due and diligent effort, the person cannot be located
within the town by posting a copy of the written notice in a prominent place
upon the real property.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.07 EMERGENCY ACTION.
   Notwithstanding the notice provisions set out in §
90.06 above, the Town Manager, or his or her agent, shall have authority to
summarily remove, abate or remedy any condition that is dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health or public safety.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.08 OTHER NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED IN THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   In addition to the conditions declared to be a nuisance enumerated
above, the Town Council may, by ordinance, define, prohibit, regulate or abate
other acts, omissions or conditions detrimental to the health, safety or
welfare of its citizens and the peace and dignity of the town.
   (B)   Prior to adopting the ordinance, the Town Council shall conduct a
hearing at any regularly scheduled or specially convened meeting of the board
after giving written notice to the owner, occupant or person in possession of
the premises on which the conditions alleged to be a nuisance are located. The
notice shall describe the conditions believed to be a nuisance and shall set
forth the date, place and time of the public hearing. The notice shall be
served in the posting on the property, then the notice shall also be advertised
once in a newspaper having local circulation at least ten days prior to the
hearing.
   (C)   At the hearing, the Town Council may receive and consider evidence in
the form of testimony, affidavits, statements, documents or other written proof
and the property owner, occupant or person in possession of the premises shall
have a right to appear and show cause why the conditions are not a nuisance or
ought not to be abated.
   (D)   If the conditions are thereafter determined by the board to be a
nuisance, the board may order the removal or abatement of the nuisance or taken
such other remedial action as may be appropriate except that the board may not
declare unattractive conditions a nuisance and order the abatement thereof
without finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing or abating
the conditions outweigh the burdens imposed upon the private owner. The special
findings shall be based upon a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent
owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood or area appearance including protection of property
values, promotion or economic and community development opportunities, indirect
protection of public health and safety, preservation of the character and
integrity of the community and the promotion of the comfort, happiness and
emotional stability of area residents.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.09 ABATEMENT BY TOWN; RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Manager has determined that a nuisance exists and
given proper notice thereof, the property owner, occupant or person in
possession of the premises on which the nuisance is located may contract with
the town to remove the conditions at a fee and upon the terms and conditions as
the Town Manager may approve, except that as a condition of all the agreements
the landowner, occupant or person in charge of the premises shall release the
town from any liability arising from or resulting from the removal of those
conditions.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the property owner, occupant or person in
possession of the premises to take the corrective action ordered by the Town
Manager within the time specified, the Town Manager may remove, abate or remedy
the condition that is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health or public
safety and the expense of the action shall be paid by the person in default
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-193. If not paid, the expenses shall become a lien upon
the land or premises where the trouble arose and may be collected as unpaid
taxes.
(Ord. passed - -)
NOISE REGULATIONS
§ 90.21 LOUD, DISTURBING NOISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, or assist in creating, any
unreasonably loud and/or disturbing noise in the town.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   “A” WEIGHTING SCALE. The sound pressure level, in decibels, as measured with
the sound level meter using the “A” weighted network scale. (Denoted dB(A).)
   AMPLIFIED SOUND. Any sound created by a sound magnifying device, whose
source is outside or whose source is inside and where the sound propagates to
the outside or to other dwellings or interior locations under separate
ownership or occupancy.
   ANIMALS. The keeping of any animal or bird, which by causing frequent or
long continued noise that is unreasonable, shall disturb the comfort and repose
of any person in the vicinity.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute or its successor bodies.
   CHURCH BELL(S). The ringing of or sounding of any church bell(s) or chime(s)
located upon, in or about any church or place of worship in the town; to
include an amplified speaker system simulating the sound of same.
   CONSTRUCTION. On-site erection, fabrication, installation, alteration,
demolition or removal of any structure, facility or addition thereto, including
all related activities, including, but not limited to, the clearing, moving,
blasting or landscaping of land (earth).
   DAYTIME HOURS. 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
   dB(A). Sound level in decibels, as determined by the “A” weighting scale of
a sound meter having characteristics defined by the American National Standards
Institute and conforming to the requirements of ANSI/NCSL 2540-1 IOS.
   DECIBEL (DB). A unit of measure, on a logarithmic scale, of the ration of
the magnitude of a particular sound pressure to a standard reference pressure,
which for the purposes of §
90.26 shall be 0.0002 microbars.
   EMERGENCY SERVICE VEHICLES. Publicly-owned or operated vehicles used for the
purposes of responding to public emergencies, to include police, fire and
medical rescue vehicles, or vehicles of public utility companies or contracted
private companies conducting emergency repairs to the protection of public
safety.
   EXCEPTIONAL PERMIT. An amplified-sound permit authorized by the Town Council
upon a finding of legal entitlement of an applicant’s request for a permit
which is denied by the Town Manager.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. As used herein, shall mean any vehicle propelled
on land by a motor, such as, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, truck-
trailers, semi-trailers, campers, go-carts, motorcycles, mopeds or buses. It
shall exclude trains and emergency service vehicles.
   NIGHTTIME HOURS. 11:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
   NOISE. As used herein, any unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels taking
into consideration the volume, duration, frequency and other characteristics of
the sound.
   NOISE CONTROL OFFICER. Any police officer within the jurisdiction (or
extraterritorial jurisdiction) of the Town of Columbus who is authorized to
enforce the ordinances of the town.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, firm, association, trust,
estate, public or private institution, group, agency, political subdivision of
the state, any other state or political subdivision or agency thereof or any
legal successor, representative, agent or agency of the foregoing.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Any sound that can be detected by a person using his or her
unaided faculties.
   SOUND. An oscillation in pressure, particle displacement, particle velocity
or other physical parameter, in a medium with internal forces that cause
compression and refraction of that medium. The description of SOUND may include
any characteristic of such sound, including duration, intensity and frequency.
   SOUND LEVEL. In decibels, a weighted sound pressure level determined by the
use of a sound meter whose characteristics and frequency weighting are
specified in ANSI standards.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. Any instrument certified to meet or exceed ANSI standards
which include an omni-directional microphone, an amplifier and output meter and
frequency weighting network(s) for the measurement of sound level.
   SPONSOR (also referred to as APPLICANT or PROPERTY OWNER). The owner of real
property or person/entity in legal possession of the real property (whether
tenant/lawful occupant/etc.) upon which amplified sound is anticipated to take
place, or does in fact take place.
   VIOLATOR. As described herein, means any person that is in possession of or
has control of any noise generating device.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 90.23 CERTAIN SOUNDS PROHIBITED.
   The following acts and activities, among others, are hereby declared to be a
source of “unreasonably loud and/or disturbing noise” in violation of §
90.21:
   (A)   Sounds impacting residential areas. It shall be unlawful to carry on
the following activities in any residentially-zoned area of the town, or within
300 feet of any residentially-occupied structure in any zone of the town:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn, car alarm, siren or other signal device
upon any automobile, except when used as a signal of warning or danger, so as
to create any unreasonable noise;
      (2)   The playing of any sound-magnifying device, radio, television or
musical equipment, within or outside of any structure, in a manner or at a
volume so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person in
any adjoining dwelling, apartment unit or hotel/motel room;
      (3)   The operation a front-end loader for refuse collection during
nighttime hours;
      (4)   The operation of construction machinery or performing any
construction activities during nighttime hours;
      (5)   The operation of automotive repairs equipment or garage machinery
out-of-doors during nighttime hours;
      (6)   The operation of lawn mowers or other domestic power tools, out-of-
doors during nighttime hours;
      (7)   The creation of any mechanical noise which registers more than 60
dB(A) during nighttime hours at the property line of the source of the noise;
and
      (8)   The keeping of any animal or bird, which by causing frequent or
long continued noise that is unreasonable, shall disturb the comfort and repose
of any person in the vicinity.
   (B)   Sounds impacting all areas. It shall be unlawful to carry on the
following activities in any area of the town:
      (1)   To operate or allow the operation of any sound amplification
equipment except in accordance to a permit obtained from the Town Manager or
Town Council (in case of exceptional permit issuance);
      (2)   To amplify sound produced by a radio, compact disc or any other
electronic device, or sounds produced by any person or musical instrument from
within a motor vehicle, so as to create an unreasonable noise such that the
sound is plainly audible at a distance of more than 50 feet away from the
vehicle. This division (B)(2) shall not apply to vehicles used for business or
political purposes which, in the normal course of operation, are not within 500
feet of any school, child care center, house of worship, personal care facility
or hospital. This division (B)(2) does not apply to vehicles operating such
equipment during public parades when a valid outdoor gatherings permit, with
the sound conditions identified, has been issued;
      (3)   To discharge into the open air the exhaust of any internal
combustion engine when the muffler system is missing or configured in such
condition so as to result in the creation of unreasonable noise; and
      (4)   The operation of any motor vehicle outside of any structure on
private or public property in such a manner as to create unreasonable noises,
by actions including, but not limited to racing engines, spinning tires,
jackrabbit starts and off-road operation.
   (C)   Exemptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Emergency operations designed to protect the public health or
safety;
      (2)   Work performed by state, county, town or government-contracted
crews in a right-of-way or utility easement when the department responsible for
the work determines that it is necessary to perform the work during nighttime
hours, under the following considerations:
         (a)   To avoid unreasonably impacting the flow of traffic; or
         (b)   To avoid unreasonably disrupting the provision of utility
service.
      (3)   Church bells.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 PERMITS FOR AMPLIFIED SOUND.
   (A)   Application. An application, on a form approved by the town, for a
permit for commercial sound amplification pursuant to this section must be
submitted to the Town Manager’s office no more than 30, but no less than 15,
business days before the permit time requested. The application shall specify
the responsible person(s) for the sound amplification equipment.
   (B)   Factors to be considered. In determining whether a permit should be
issued pursuant to this section, the Town Manager shall consider the following:
      (1)   The time period during which the event will occur;
      (2)   The location of the event;
      (3)   Whether the activities would be in compliance with other applicable
laws;
      (4)   Whether the designated place (or nearby place) at the requested
time has already been permitted to a different applicant;
      (5)   Whether the equipment to be used and the number of units of
equipment to be used will likely lead to excessive noise;
      (6)   Whether the applicant/sponsor has had any prior violations of the
town noise ordinance, amplification ordinance, or related state or federal law
violations;
      (7)   Whether the applicant/sponsor was found to have made misleading
statements in prior applications to the town requesting issuance of an
amplification permit; and
      (8)   Whether this applicant/sponsor has had prior permits granted which
excluded the opportunity to provide permits to neighboring property, and
whether in the interest of fairness and equity, a neighboring property should
be given a permit.
   (C)   Review of permits. Permit applications shall be reviewed by the Town
Manager, and after consideration of the factors outlined in division (B) above,
the Town Manager shall decide which permits to grant and which permits to
reject. The Town Manager may include reasonable conditions on any permit to be
granted (including, but not limited to, a set decibel limit on noise) and any
failure of the sponsor to abide by (or ensure other participants abide by) the
same may result in the denial of future permits, the suspension of the
sponsor’s ability to request a similar permit for a set period of time, and/or
the immediate revocation of any permit granted as a result of this application.
   (D)   Limit on permits by geographical area. Subsequent permits shall not be
issued for the same date for a location within a 500-foot radius of the
location of an issued permit.
   (E)   Not permitted in residentially-zoned areas. Permits for sound
amplification may not be issued for residentially-occupied property. The
creation of sounds registering more than 70 dB(A) anywhere within the boundary
line of the nearest residentially-occupied property shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Permit revocation. If sound checks taken by a town police officer, or
other authorized law enforcement officer, during the event of amplified sound
determines the sound levels to be in excess of the permit, or should it be
determined that any other conditions of this section have not been completed as
required or other conditions of the permit not met, the law enforcement officer
charge the offender with a violation of this subchapter, and require an
immediate cessation of the amplified sound. In addition, law enforcement shall
notify the Town Manager of such violation so that a record may be made of any
such violation and considered when determining whether additional permits shall
be issued to a particular venue in the future.
   (G)   Permit denial. If the applicant has been denied the issuance of a
permit by the Town Manager, and believes the denial to be illegal under
applicable local, state or federal law, the applicant may appeal the denial to
the Town Council. The appeal shall be delivered in writing, and shall include a
copy of the permit and a statement as to the applicant’s beliefs to the legal
basis for the appeal. The Town Council shall have the discretion to grant an
exceptional permit, waiving the exceptions for location, time of day and/or
decibel restrictions, upon his or her determination that the applicant has made
a substantial showing of legal entitlement.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 OUTDOOR AMPLIFICATION AND MUSIC AT COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Except in accordance with a permit issued pursuant to §
90.24, it shall be unlawful for any commercial establishment, including, but
not limited to, restaurants, bars or nightclubs, to operate or allow the
operation of sound amplification equipment out of doors or directed out of
doors (an establishment will be presumed to be directing sound amplification
out of doors if the sound levels exceed the following set limits at the
prescribed measuring distance). Permits issued pursuant to this section shall
allow for the operation of sound amplification equipment consistent with the
decibel limits established below unless further conditions are required on the
permit itself:
 
Table 1 - Monday through Sunday
7:00 a.m.—11:00 p.m11:00 p.m.—7:00 a.m.
70 dB(A)             70 dB(A)
 
   (B)   The decibel limits prescribed in this section shall be measured
approximately 200 feet from any entrance to the facility if it appears the
noise is coming from inside the establishment, or 200 feet from any boundary of
an outdoor entertainment area of the commercial property from where the sound
is being generated. The law enforcement officer measuring decibel limits shall
use his or her skill and training in estimating the distance required herein
and shall not be required to use a measuring device to confirm distance. Should
a noise check be required for any venue utilizing an outdoor entertainment
area, a law enforcement officer shall use his or her best judgment in
determining what constitutes the boundary of an outdoor entertainment area for
purposes of determining the 200 feet requirement herein.
   (C)   The amplified sound may only be produced during the operational hours
of the commercial establishment.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 SOUND MEASUREMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   For the purpose of determining decibels (dB(A)) as referenced in this
chapter, the noise shall be measured on the “A-weighting scale slow response”
on a sound level meter of standard design and quality having characteristics
established by the American National Standards Institute.
   (B)   When the Noise Control Officer determines that insufficient prima
facie evidence exists for establishing a noise violation case, the
investigating officer will use a sound-level meter to measure the sound level.
Sound measurements shall be conducted at that time, day or night, when the
suspect noise source is emitting sound.
   (C)   The following procedures shall be utilized in the sound measurement
process.
      (1)   The sound measurement equipment shall have been calibrated.
      (2)   Prior to obtaining the sound sample, the sound level meter shall be
set to the “A” weighted network at slow response.
      (3)   No individual other than the operator of the sound meter shall be
within ten feet of the sound level meter during the measurement process.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 90.35 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and Town's Administrator shall be responsible
for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police Department
shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition of vehicles
determined to be "abandoned" on the public streets and highways within the
town, on property owned by the town.
   (B)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for administering the removal
and disposition of "abandoned", "nuisance" or "junked motor vehicles" located
on private property.
   (C)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Town Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. passed - -, § 1)
§ 90.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined by G.S. § 160A-303, one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department of
the Town Manager, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of vehicles
under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, a
vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully upon that
vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLES or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection or garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -, § 2)
§ 90.37 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow the vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed - -, § 3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle to
remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Town Manager may determine and declare that a
vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as defined above
and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.39 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked vehicle, as defined
herein, on the premises of public or private property. Single, permitted junked
motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment
requirements of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the locational requirements or the concealment requirements of this section.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E) below, upon investigation,
the Town Manager may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle as defined in
this chapter after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing
the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner. This
finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the apparent
owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or enhancing
community, neighborhood or area appearance. The following among other relevant
factors may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicle:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, can be located in the
rear yard as defined by the town's Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 154) if the junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed from public view
from a public street and from abutting premises by an acceptable covering. The
Town Manager has the authority to determine whether any junked motor vehicle is
adequately concealed as required by this provision. The covering must remain in
good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate. The covering or enclosure
must be compatible with the objectives stated in the preamble or this
subchapter; and
      (2)   More than one junked motor vehicle. Any other junked motor vehicle
(s) must be kept in a garage or building structure that provides a complete
enclosure so that the junked motor vehicle(s) cannot be seen from a public
street or abutting property. A garage or a building structure means either a
lawful, nonconforming use or a garage or building structure erected pursuant to
the lawful issuance of a building permit and which has been constructed in
accordance with all zoning and building code regulations.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.40 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.41 below, an abandoned nuisance or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail. The
person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to show the name
(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed. If the names and
addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle to be removed is an abandoned
motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing on the windshield or some
other conspicuous place on vehicle, a notice indicating that the vehicle will
be removed by the town on a specified date (no sooner than seven days after the
notice is affixed). The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by
the town on a specified date, not sooner than seven days after the notice is
affixed or mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor
prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle, but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, the appeal shall be made
to the Town Council in writing, heard at the next regularly scheduled meeting
of the Town Council, and further proceedings to remove the vehicle shall be
stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6)
§ 90.41 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR TO NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare.
   (B)   The findings shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing
official, in the appropriate daily records.
   (C)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without the prior
notice includes:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left of the public
streets and highways, the Town Council hereby determines that immediate removal
of the vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
         (d)   Parked in loading zones;
         (e)   Parked in bus zones; or
         (f)   Parked in violation or temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on town-owned property other than the streets and
highways, and on private property, the vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorizing official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, those
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
business and residences, vehicles parked in such a location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. passed - -, § 7)
§ 90.42 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which has been ordered
removed may as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or area by
the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform the services
for the town.
   (B)   Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorizing town official
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle, the
notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice including the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless this notice is waived by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(B)(1) through (5) above.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8)
§ 90.43 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the county
magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive the hearing
requests. The magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. passed - -, § 9)
§ 90.44 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of the fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 10)
§ 90.45 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed
by the owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the
tow truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle.
   (B)   Disposition of such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination
with the town and in accordance with G.S. Ch. 44A, Art. I.
(Ord. passed - -, § 11)
§ 90.46 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of the property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the town from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle, which has been ordered, removed
by the Town Manager or his or her agent.
   (B)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed - -, § 12)
§ 90.47 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned
vehicle, for disposing of the vehicle as provided in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 13) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.48 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide "automobile graveyard" or "junkyard"
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the "Junkyard Control Act",
G.S. §§ 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.49 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be lawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the town any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provisions of this code unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of the fees, have been paid.
(Ord. passed - -, § 15) Penalty, see §
90.99
SPECIFIC NUISANCES
§ 90.60 WEEDS, GARBAGE, REFUSE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every person owning or occupying any premises within the corporate
limits shall keep the premises free from noxious weeds, garbage, trash, boxes
or other debris which may be dangerous, or prejudicial to the public health, or
which may constitute a public nuisance.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of any premises shall bury therein any substance
which upon decaying may become dangerous, or prejudicial to the public health,
or may constitute a nuisance.
   (C)   Any violation of this provision shall be a civil violation enforceable
by the Town Manager.
(Ord. passed 12-4-1997; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
90.01 to
90.09 or a failure to comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a
civil offense and shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount
of $50. Any person violating §§
90.01 to
90.09 shall be issued a written citation of the violation, which may be issued
by any police officer, Town Manager, building inspection officer or other
officer. If the offender fails to pay the penalty within 15 days from its
issuance to the tax collector the penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of debt.
      (2)   Each day's continuing violation shall be separate and distinct
offense.
      (3)   In addition, the provision of this subchapter may also be enforced
through equitable remedies issued by a court of competent jurisdiction
including injunction and order of abatement or any other remedy permitted under
this article or at law or equity.
      (4)   This subchapter may be enforced by any one, all or a combination of
the remedies authorized in this division (B).
   (C)   (1)   Enforcement remedies.
         (a)   Violation of the offense in §§
90.21 through
90.26 will be a class 3 misdemeanor and a $500 fine.
         (b)   The town may seek an injunction and order of abatement directed
toward any person or entity creating or allowing the creation of any unlawful
noise, including the owner or person otherwise having legal or actual control
of the premises from which it emanates.
      (2)   Enforcement of §
90.25. When there are repeated violations of §
90.25 , the Town Manager, at his or her discretion, may take the following
enforcement.
         (a)   An establishment which has been found in violation of §
90.25 more than two times within any 12-month period may have its privileges
under this section suspended for a period of up to 12 months.
         (b)   The town may seek an injunction and order of abatement directed
toward any person or entity creating or allowing the creation of any unlawful
noise, including the owner or person otherwise having legal or actual control
of the premises from which it emanates.
         (c)   An establishment whose privileges under §
90.25 have been suspended continues to produce or allow to be produced
amplified shall be subject to a class 3 misdemeanor and a $500 fine per
violation.
   (D)   Persons violating §
90.60 shall be notified by first class mail. If any person shall violate the
provisions of §
90.60, it shall be the duty of the Town Manager or his or her agent to give
written notice to the owner or person in possession of the premises that within
14 days or sooner from the date of the notice the violation, or cause of the
violation must be corrected or removed. Failure to comply with the notice shall
constitute a misdemeanor (fine up to $50) and each day the person remains in
violation shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 6-11-1969; Ord. passed 7- -1993, § 4; Ord. passed
12-4-1997; Ord. passed 10-16-2001; Am. Ord. 2015-10, passed 11-19-2015; Am.
Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Certain sounds prohibited, see §
90.23
CHAPTER 91: CONTROL OF ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   General adoption provisions
   
91.02   Purpose
   
91.03   Jurisdiction
   
91.04   Definitions
   
91.05   Duties
   
91.06   Inspection, interference, or concealment
   
91.07   Rabies control
   
91.08   Public nuisance
   
91.09   Animal care
   
91.10   Exemption of pet stores
   
91.11   Posting of a bond
   
91.12   Exotic or wild animals
   
91.13   Dead animals
   
91.14   Restraint of animals
   
91.15   Protective measures for confinement of dogs
   
91.16   Impoundment
   
91.17   Seizure and disposition of animals
   
91.18   Dangerous/potentially dangerous animals
   
91.19   Civil penalty; violations
   
91.20   Injunctions
   
91.21   Animal Control Board
   
91.22   Animal control appeals
   
91.23   Negligence per se
   
91.24   Effective date
Specific Provisions
   
91.25   Keeping of livestock
   
91.26   Hogs, pigs and the like
   
91.27   Ownership of dogs
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 GENERAL ADOPTION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The town does hereby adopt as a town ordinance the Animal Control
Ordnance adopted by the Rutherford-Polk-McDowell District Board of Health and
by the County Board of Commissioners as an ordinance for the town; the
ordinance being adopted in its entirety to the end that the ordinance may be
enforceable within the town in the same manner as the same is now enforceable
within the areas of the county situated outside of its municipalities.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer of the county shall have the same powers
and authority within the municipal limits of the town as he or she now has in
the areas of the county situated outside its municipalities.
   (C)   All monies received under the Animal Control Ordinance shall be paid
as provided in the county ordinance and the town shall not be entitled to any
portion of the money.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1978)
§ 91.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate ownership and possession of
animals; prohibit certain acts, omissions and conditions which interfere with
the health, safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the county and
those municipalities coming under the provisions of this subchapter; to protect
the public from unvaccinated, diseased, stray, roaming, dangerous exotic or
wild animals; to make unlawful, acts of animals that interfere with the
enjoyment of property or the peace and safety of the community; to protect
animals from abuse or conditions harmful to their well-being; to provide for
the peace and dignity of residents; and to perform any other duties authorized
by applicable state laws.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.03 JURISDICTION.
   Except as provided in this section, the provisions of this subchapter shall
not be applicable to and shall not be enforced within the corporate limits or
jurisdiction of any municipality in the county. A municipality may come within
the provisions of this subchapter at any time by mutual agreement with the
county and by the adoption of an appropriate resolution by the governing body
of such municipality pursuant to G.S. § 153A-122 agreeing that this subchapter
shall be enforced within the corporate limits or jurisdiction of the
municipality. All provisions of this ordinance which are indicated to be
applicable only in a particular municipality shall not take effect until and
unless such municipality adopts a resolution subjecting itself to the
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDON. To forsake, desert or give up an animal previously under the
custody or possession of a person without having secured another owner or
custodian or to fail to make reasonable arrangements for adequate care.
   ABUSE. Willful injury to, or mistreatment of, an animal, but not to include
the legal euthanasia of an animal or the slaughtering of an animal raised to be
used for food or clothing by humane and legal methods.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision at suitable intervals, of a quantity of
suitable foodstuff suitable for the species and age, sufficient to maintain the
animal’s health and well being.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structure which provides for an animal’s protection from
inclement weather or sun, appropriate for that animal.
   ADEQUATE WATER. Access to a supply of water that is clean, fresh, and
visibly free of excessive debris and organic material, provided in a sanitary
manner at suitable intervals for the species.
   ADULT.  A person 18 years of age or older and who has not been judicially
declared incompetent.
   ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISOR. The animal control officer charged with
administering animal control services within the Polk County Sheriff
Department.
   ANIMAL CRUELTY INVESTIGATORS. Persons duly appointed by the Polk County
Board of County Commissioners pursuant to G.S. § 19A-45 to investigate neglect,
abuse or cruelty of animals.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for all animals found running at large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter and
the General Statutes of North Carolina.
   AT LARGE. An animal is AT LARGE if the animal is at a location off of the
real property of the owner or custodian of the animal and not under control of
the owner or custodian.
   CONTROL. Having dominion or authority over by obedience to commands, or
having in restraint by means of a leash, tether, or bridle.
   CUSTODIAN. A person having custody of an animal, or who keeps or harbors an
animal, feeds or shelters, or who permits an animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied or controlled by such person.
   COUNTY. The unincorporated areas of the county, and within the
municipalities within the county that have opted to come within the provisions
of this subchapter.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   An animal that:
         (a)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on a
person;
         (b)   Without provocation has killed or inflicted severe injury on
another domestic animal;
         (c)   Is determined by the animal control officer to be a potentially
dangerous animal and for which there has been no successful appeal from such a
determination under the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of fighting other animals, or any animal trained for such fighting.
   DEPARTMENT. The Animal Control Department of the Polk County Sheriff
Department.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. Any animal that is accustomed to living in or about the
habitation of humans including but not limited to cats, dogs, horses, cows,
fowl, or swine, but not to include any wild or exotic animal.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any living animal, which is strikingly or excitingly
different or unusual and not ordinarily kept as a pet or domesticated animal.
By way of example, EXOTIC ANIMALS shall include but not limited to lions,
tigers, apes, monkeys, poisonous reptiles, and poisonous spiders. A hybrid of
any animal listed in the example above, regardless of genetic percentages,
shall be deemed EXOTIC.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The director of the Polk County Health Department.
   HOUSEHOLD. Any room or group of rooms located within a building and forming
a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   IMPOUNDMENT. The placement of an animal in the custody of the department.
   INOCULATION. The vaccination of a dog or cat with antirabic vaccine approved
by all applicable federal, state and local regulatory agencies at such time or
times as shall be required by applicable law or regulatory agency.
   KEEPER. A person having custody of an animal, or who keeps or harbors an
animal, feeds or shelters, or who permits an animal to remain on or about any
premises occupied or controlled by such person.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person, partnership or corporation is
engaged in the business of boarding, breeding, buying, letting for hire,
training for a fee or selling dogs or cats.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals commonly associated with agriculture including, but not
limited to, horses, mules, ponies, llamas, swine, sheep, cattle, goats,
chickens, emus, ostriches, and other fowl.
   LOT. A portion, piece, division or parcel of land, with or without a
household, which is identified by a tax map, recorded plat, deed, lease or the
like. All contiguous land under common ownership and used for a single purpose
shall constitute a single LOT.
   NEGLECT. Failure of an owner or person in possession of an animal to provide
the animal with adequate food, water, shelter, or failure of an owner or a
person in possession of an animal to obtain appropriate humane care for the
animal in the event of injury or illness; provided humane euthanasia is an
acceptable care.
   OWNER. A person who or legal entity that has a possessory property right in
an animal.
   OWNER’S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned, leased or occupied by the
owner of the animal but does not include any public right-of-way or a common
area of a condominium, apartment complex or townhouse development.
   PERFORMANCE DOG. A dog that is that is being trained, used in herding,
hunting, tracking or shown.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that the animal control officer
determines to have:
      (1)   Inflicted a bite on a person for which the person sought or
obtained medical treatment;
      (2)   Killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic animal when not
on the owner’s real property; or
      (3)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a vicious
or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
   PREMISES. A definite portion of real estate including land with its
appurtenances, a building or part of a building.
   PROOF OF OWNERSHIP. Documentation in support of a property right in an
animal that includes, but is not limited to, veterinary records; rabies
vaccination certificates; license; photographs; bills of sale; signed
affidavits, breed registries; written transfers of ownership.
   PROVOCATION. Any action designed to goad, inflame, instigate or stimulate an
aggressive or defensive response on the part of an animal, but PROVOCATION
shall not include any actions on the part of an individual that pertain to
reasonable efforts of self-defense against an unprovoked animal.
   SECURELY ENCLOSED. A fence or structure forming or causing a humane
enclosure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to prevent entry of
young children.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
disfiguring lacerations or requires cosmetic surgery or hospitalization.
   TETHER. A means by which an animal is fastened so that it can range only
within a set radius.
   VACCINATION. The administration of rabies vaccine as required by law.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which can normally be found in the wild state,
particularly those feral, exotic, dangerous or non-domestic animals which
generally do not live in or about the habitation of humans, including, but not
limited to, deer, bears, wolves, coyote, foxes, raccoons, skunks and squirrels.
   ZOONOTIC DISEASE. A disease communicable from animals to humans under
natural conditions.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.05 DUTIES.
   (A)   In administering this subchapter, the county and any municipalities
therein may, pursuant to an inter-local agreement, form a joint agency,
designate a local agency or create an animal control department within either
county or municipal government. There shall be an Animal Control Supervisor who
shall have overall responsibility for administering this subchapter. The Animal
Control Supervisor shall make recommendations to the Polk County Sheriff to
hire appropriate staff including animal control officers and to make
recommendations to the Board of Commissioners for appointment of animal cruelty
investigators.
   (B)   Animal control officers shall have the following powers within the
county:
      (1)   Pick up and deliver to the animal shelter any animal at large in
violation of this subchapter, any potentially dangerous animal, any abused or
neglected animal, any animal required to have, but failing to have, a rabies
tag, or any other animal in violation of this subchapter or other ordinance of
the county.
      (2)   Issue appropriate permits, civil penalties and notices of violation
appropriate for the enforcement of this subchapter.
      (3)   Declare an animal as a potentially dangerous animal if the officer
determines that the animal so qualifies. Upon making a determination that an
animal is a potentially dangerous animal, the Health Director shall notify the
owner of the animal in writing, giving the reasons for the determination. The
owner may appeal the determination of the Health Director by filing written
objections with the Polk County Animal Control Board within ten days.
      (4)   Make canvasses of the county to ascertain that all animals which
are required by the State of North Carolina to be vaccinated are currently
vaccinated against rabies and ensuring that the provisions of this subchapter
and North Carolina General Statutes related to animal control are adhered to.
      (5)   Investigate complaints with regard to animals.
      (6)   Protect animals from neglect or abuse and assist animal cruelty
investigators as needed in enforcing state laws regarding cruelty.
      (7)   Enforce the laws with regard to remedies for an owner’s failure to
obtain proper vaccination of animals against rabies.
      (8)   Investigate all reported animal bites or other human physical
contact with suspected rabid animals and submit bite reports and reports of
human contacts to the Health Director.
   (C)   The Animal Control Supervisor shall have no authority to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter relating to dangerous animals, if one of the
following factors is present:
      (1)   The animal is being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out
the law enforcement officer’s official duties; or
      (2)   Where the injury or damage inflicted by the animal was sustained by
a domestic animal while the animal was working as a hunting animal, herding
animal or predator control animal on the property of or under the control of
its owner or custodian and the damage or injury was to a species or type of
domestic animal appropriate to the work of the animal.
   (D)   If an animal has bitten a human being, the Health Director shall have
the authority to require the owner to procure liability insurance in the amount
of at least $100,000 at the owner’s expense, to have the animal micro chipped,
and to display a sign on the premises warning of the presence of the animal on
the premises. The Health Director may waive any or all of these requirements if
the bite is inconsequential, provoked, or inflicted upon a trespasser. The
Health Director shall have the authority to require proof of insurance. The
owner has a duty to notify the Health Director if the animal escapes or if the
animal is moved to a new location. Owners who fail to comply with the
protective provisions required by the Health Director under this division waive
the right to contest the seizure and impoundment of the animal.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.06 INSPECTION, INTERFERENCE, OR CONCEALMENT.
   (A)   Inspections. Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
any of the provisions of this subchapter, and the animal control officer has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists upon any premises any violation
of this subchapter, the animal control officer is hereby empowered to enter and
inspect such property at any reasonable time and perform any duty imposed by
this subchapter as follows:
      (1)   If such property is unoccupied, the animal control officer shall
first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
control of the property; and
      (2)   If such property is occupied, the animal control officer shall
first present proper credentials to the occupant and request entry, explaining
the reasons therefor; and
      (3)   If such entry is refused or cannot be obtained because the owner or
other person having control or charge of the property cannot be located after
due diligence, the animal control officer may seek an administrative inspection
warrant as provided in G.S. Ch. 15, Art. 4A.
   (B)   Interference. It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with,
hinder, assault, molest, resist, or obstruct the animal control officer while
the animal control officer is carrying out any duty created under this
subchapter.
   (C)   Concealment of animal. It shall be unlawful for any person to conceal
any animal from the animal control officer to evade any provision of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   Vaccination of dogs, cats and ferrets required; vaccination of other
animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or custodian to fail to provide
current vaccination against rabies for any dog, cat, or ferret four months of
age or older. Should it be deemed necessary by the state or Health Director or
the state or the health and humans services board that other animals be
vaccinated in order to prevent a threatened epidemic or to control an existing
epidemic, it shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian to fail to provide
current vaccination against rabies for such animals.
      (2)   All anti-rabies vaccines shall be administered by a licensed
veterinarian or a certified rabies vaccinator.
   (B)   Vaccination tag and certification.
      (1)   Upon complying with the provisions of division (A) above, there
shall be issued to the owner or custodian of the animal vaccinated a rabies
tag, stamped with the number and the year for which issued, and a rabies
vaccination certificate.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian of a dog required
to be vaccinated to fail to provide the animal with a collar or harness to
which a current rabies tag issued under this section is securely attached. The
collar or harness, with attached tag, must be worn at all times. All animal
owners or custodians must maintain in their possession all current vaccination
certificates or other evidence for official proof and documentation of rabies
vaccination.
      (3)   In addition to all other penalties as prescribed by law, a dog, cat
or ferret required to be vaccinated is subject to impoundment in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter if the dog is found not to be wearing a
currently valid rabies tag.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use for any animal a rabies
vaccination tag issued for an animal other than the one using the tag, or the
owner or custodian of a cat or ferret does not possess a current vaccination
certificate or other evidence of current rabies vaccination.
   (C)   Notice to local animal control when person bitten by animal;
confinement of animal.
      (1)   Notice. When a person has been bitten by an animal required to be
vaccinated under this section, the person or parent, guardian or person
standing in loco parentis of the person, and the person owning the animal or in
control or possession of the animal shall notify the Health Director
immediately and give the name and address of the person bitten and the owner of
the animal. If the animal that bites a person is a stray or feral animal, the
animal control officer shall make a reasonable attempt to locate the owner of
the animal. If the owner cannot be identified within 72 hours of the event, the
Health Director may authorize the animal be euthanized, and the head of the
animal shall be immediately sent to the State Laboratory of Public Health for
rabies diagnosis. If the event occurs on a weekend or state holiday the time
period for owner identification shall be extended 24 hours. A physician who
attends a person bitten by an animal known to be a potential carrier of rabies
shall report the incident within 24 hours to the Health Director. The report
must include the name, age, and sex of the person.
      (2)   Confinement. When an animal required to be vaccinated under this
section bites a person, the animal shall be immediately confined for ten days
in a place designated by the Health Director. The Health Director may authorize
a dog trained and used by a law enforcement agency to be released from
confinement to perform official duties upon submission of proof that the dog
has been vaccinated for rabies in compliance with this section. After reviewing
the circumstances of the particular case, the Health Director may allow the
owner to confine the animal on the owner’s property. An owner who fails to
confine an animal in accordance with the instructions of the Health Director
shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor. If the owner or the person who
controls or possesses the animal that has bitten a person refuses to confine
the animal as required by this division, the Health Director may order seizure
of the animal and its confinement for ten days at the expense of the owner.
      (3)   Release of ownership. When an animal to be vaccinated under this
section bites a person, the owner of the animal may sign ownership of the
animal over to Polk County Animal Control. The animal shall be immediately
confined in a place designated by the Health Director and the Health Director
shall make a decision to euthanize the animal or permit the animal to be placed
for adoption.
   (D)   Animals exposed to rabies. When the Health Director, in reliance on
guidance from the state Division of Public Health Communicable Disease Branch,
the US Centers for Disease Control or in consultation with the state’s public
health veterinary team, reasonably suspects an animal has been exposed to
rabies the following shall be applicable:
      (1)   Dogs, cats, and ferrets that have never been vaccinated shall be
euthanized immediately or placed in strict quarantine for four months (dogs and
cats) or six months (ferrets). The quarantine shall be in an enclosure that
precludes direct contact with people or other animals. If quarantine is
delayed, the quarantine period may be extended.
      (2)   A dog or cat with appropriate documentation showing it is either
current on vaccinations or was vaccinated at least once previously shall
receive a booster vaccination within 96 hours of exposure. In addition, the
owner or custodian shall keep the animal under his or her control and observe
it for 45 days of signs of illness. If the booster is delayed, the Health
Director may consider increasing the observation period.
      (3)   If an owner or custodian states the dog or cat has had a rabies
vaccination in the past but does not have appropriate documentation to prove
such vaccination, the Health Director may follow the quarantine approach
described above for animals that have never been vaccinated, or consider
allowing blood testing to evaluate whether there is evidence a robust immune
response upon booster vaccination.
      (4)   A ferret that has a lapsed vaccination shall be evaluated on a
case-by-case basis to determine the appropriate management.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   The keeping of any animal in such manner or in such numbers as to
constitute a public nuisance is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, a PUBLIC NUISANCE shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The keeping of any animal which frequently is at large;
      (2)   The keeping of a cage or pen, constructed and used for the purpose
of restraining animals within ten feet of the outer limits of the lot upon
which the cage or pen is situated; provided, however, this setback requirement
shall not be applicable where the placing of the cage or pen within the ten-
foot area does not result in locating the cage or pen within 50 feet of the
nearest household occupied by persons other than the owner or custodian of the
cage or pen. This division shall not apply to the fencing of all or a major
portion of a lot;
      (3)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of anyone
other than its owner, including, but not limited to, turning over garbage
containers, or damaging gardens, flowers, or vegetables, or defecating upon the
property of another;
      (4)   Maintaining animals in an unsanitary environment for the animals
which results in offensive odors or a failure to maintain a condition of good
order and cleanliness which reduces the probability of transmission of disease,
with unsanitary being determined by best management practices for the
particular animal;
      (5)   Maintaining animals in such a manner and location as that animal
waste can accumulate and run off onto another owner’s property or into a
stream;
      (6)   Maintaining the owner’s property in a manner that is dangerous to
the public health, safety, or welfare of the community because of the number,
type, variety, density or location of the animals on the property;
      (7)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased or potentially dangerous to
the public health through transmission of a zoonotic disease; or
      (8)   Failing to confine a female animal while in heat in a secure
enclosure in such a manner that will prevent the animal from coming into
contact with a male of its species, or attract other animals; provided, this
section shall not be construed to prohibit the intentional breeding of animals
within a securely enclosed area.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or custodian to fail to provide
their animals with adequate food, water, shelter, veterinary care and humane
euthanasia when needed to prevent suffering. ADEQUATE SHELTER means provision
of and access to shelter that is suitable for the species, age, condition, size
and type of each animal; provides adequate space for each animal; is safe and
protects each animal from injury, rain, sleet, snow, hail, direct sunlight, and
the adverse effects of heat or cold, physical suffering, and impairment of
health; is properly cleaned; enables each animal to be clean and dry, except
when detrimental to the species; and for dogs and cats, provides a solid
surface, resting platform, pad, floormat or similar devices that is large
enough for the animal to lie on in a normal manner and can be maintained in a
sanitary manner. Under this subchapter, shelter whose wire grid, or slat floors
which (i) permit the animals’ feet to pass through the openings, (ii) sag under
the animal’s weight, or (iii) otherwise do not protect the animals’ feet or
toes from injury are not adequate shelter. The structure must be provided with
bedding such as straw, cedar shaving, blankets, or the equivalent so as to
provide insulation and protection against the elements of the weather and to
help retain body heat in the winter and must be kept in a cool shaded area in
the summer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally overdrive,
overload, wound, beat, injure, torment, kill, or poison or otherwise abuse an
animal; or procure an animal to be overdriven, overloaded, wounded, beaten,
injured, tormented, killed, or poisoned or otherwise abused; or cause,
instigate, or permit any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight, or other combat
between animals and humans and animals; provided humane euthanasia is an
acceptable care.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to promote, encourage, engage in
or do any act toward the furtherance of any act of cruelty to an animal.
   (D)   No owner of an animal shall abandon such animal except to relinquish
the animal to the animal shelter during normal business hours, if an animal
control officer finds that an animal has been abandoned, the animal may be
impounded. If an animal has been abandoned in a house or within a fenced area,
the officer must make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or manager of the
property. If the property owner or manager is not the animal owner, then the
officer does not need to secure permission from the property owner or manager
to remove the animal, unless the property owner or manager agrees to become
responsible for animal, including its care. If the property owner is also the
animal owner and this individual cannot be located, the officer shall secure an
appropriate warrant to seize the animal. An animal seized pursuant to this
section shall be impounded. If the animal is unclaimed by its owner after being
held 72 hours, the animal shall be disposed of by adoption or humane
euthanasia.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or confine an
animal or allow an animal to be placed or confined in a motor vehicle under
such conditions or for such a period of time as to endanger the health or
wellbeing of such animal due to temperature, lack of food or drink, or such
other conditions as may reasonably be expected to cause suffering, disability,
or death.
      (2)   After making a reasonable effort to find the driver of a vehicle in
which an animal is confined, the animal control officer, in the presence of a
law enforcement officer, may use the least intrusive means to enter the vehicle
if necessary to remove the animal, where reasonable cause exists to believe the
animal may die if not promptly removed. The animal control officer removing the
animal shall then impound the animal and leave in a prominent place on the
motor vehicle a written notice of the animal’s impoundment, a brief description
of the animal, and where and when the animal may be reclaimed.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring or killing a domestic
animal by striking it with an automobile or other vehicle to fail to notify the
owner of such animal, if ownership information is available. If ownership
information is not available, or if the animal is injured but alive, animal
control or law enforcement must be notified.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sponsor, promote, or train a
wild, exotic or domestic animal to participate in any unnatural behavior in
which the animal is wrestled, fought, harassed, or displayed in such a way that
the animal is abused or stressed. This prohibition applies to events and
activities taking place in either public or private facilities or property in
the county and applies regardless of the purpose of the event or activities and
whether or not a fee is charged to spectators.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to sell or adopt any dog or cat under
the age of six weeks old without accompanying its mother or until fully weaned.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful to tether an animal to a stationary object for a
period of time or under conditions that an animal control officer or animal
cruelty investigator deems harmful or potentially harmful to the animal.
Tethering may be allowed in certain cases where daily socialization and
exercise off the tether can be verified and the animal is not exhibiting health
or temperament problems. Examples of improper tethering include, but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   Using a length or weight of tether that is not appropriate for the
size, weight and age of the animal. The restraint must be a minimum of four
times the length from the tip of the animal’s nose to the tip of the animal’s
tail and shall be no less than ten feet.
      (2)   Using tether that does not have swivels on both ends. All tethers
must be attached to the animal by means of a properly fitting harness or collar
of not less than one inch in width made of nylon or leather.
      (3)   Allowing an animal to be tethered such that the animal is not
confined to the owner’s property or such that the tether can become entangled
and prevent the animal from moving about freely, lying down comfortably or
having access to adequate food, water and shelter.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.10 EXEMPTION OF PET STORES.
   This subchapter shall not apply to pet stores regulated by G.S. Ch. 19A,
Art. 3.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.11 POSTING OF A BOND.
   If the animal control officer has seized an animal as authorized by this
subchapter, or for any other legally authorized seizure and confinement of an
animal, and the Health Director determines that the retention of any animal so
seized might extend beyond five days, then the Health Director shall be
authorized to require the owner to post a bond or to deposit cash not to exceed
$400 within a reasonable time to cover the boarding costs for the animal and
any foreseen, reasonable veterinarian fees required by law or deemed necessary
for the animal care.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.12 EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Unlawful act. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, maintain,
possess or have under his control within the county any venomous reptile or any
other wild or exotic animal.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to lawfully operated and located pet
shops, zoological gardens, scientific research laboratories, circuses,
veterinarians harboring such animals for purposes of providing professional
medical treatment, wildlife rehabilitators with proper permits and
certification, or exhibitors licensed by the United States Department of
Agriculture displaying such animals for educational purposes, provided that the
animals are maintained in a manner so as to prevent escape.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to herbivores, securely confined in
fence or other enclosure such that they cannot escape and be at a location off
the tract of real property on which they are confined.
   (C)   Compliance with state and federal regulations and safe confinement.
The confinement of exotic or wild animals exempted from division (A) of this
section by division (B) of this section must meet the regulations promulgated
by the state wildlife commission, the minimum standards under the Animal
Welfare Act and all applicable rules promulgated by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture. In addition to meeting these minimum standards, all such venomous
reptiles and all such wild or exotic animals shall be confined, restrained or
controlled in such a manner so that the physical safety, or property, of any
person lawfully entering the premises shall not be endangered.
   (D)   Presence on public rights-of-way. Animals described under division (A)
of this section but exempt under division (B) of this section shall not be
allowed on any public street, sidewalk, or other public way, except in a fully
enclosed cage or adequate structural restraint. The use of a leash, with or
without a muzzle, shall not be considered adequate restraint. Exempt from this
division are animals that are part of a featured performance at a special event
with a county or town festival or parade permit where the animal handler is
licensed by the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or place the carcass of
any animal, which he owns, upon any street, alley, or lot, or to allow the
animal to remain unburied on his property.
   (B)   The owner or custodian of any animal which dies shall have it buried
in compliance with applicable state law and regulation.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.14 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   Every person owning or having possession, charge, care, custody or control
of any animal shall keep such animal exclusively upon the owner’s premises.
However, such animal may be off such premises if it is under the control of a
person competent to handle and control the animal and restrained by a chain,
leash, harness, bridle or other means of physical control, or is under the
person’s direct control and is obedient to that person’s commands.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.15 PROTECTIVE MEASURES FOR CONFINEMENT OF DOGS.
   (A)   Circumstances requiring special preventive measures. The animal
control officer shall have the authority to require the owner or custodian of a
dog to comply with special preventive measures, as described below, after
taking into consideration the following factors:
      (1)   Nature of the particular dog: The behavior, size, temperament,
capacity for inflicting serious injury, the number of dogs involved or other
such factors which would be relevant to a determination of whether or not
additional preventive measures need to be imposed for a particular situation;
      (2)   Adequacy of confinement: The adequacy of the enclosure or
confinement, if any;
      (3)   Immediate surrounding area: The likelihood that the conditions
pertaining to the particular dog and the dog’s confinement are detrimental to
the safety, welfare or peace and tranquility of a reasonably prudent person in
the vicinity;
      (4)   Children, elderly, and disabled: Minor children, elderly, and
disabled people who live in close proximity to the premises occupied by the
dog;
      (5)   Bite: The dog has bitten a human being or domestic animal, without
provocation or trespass, and the person bitten does not ordinarily reside on
the premises;
      (6)   Aggressive attack: The dog has been trained for aggressive attacks;
and
      (7)   Attack incidents and reputation: The dog without provocation or a
trespass, has approached a person in an apparent attitude of attack or has a
reputation to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals.
   (B)   Special preventive measures. If the animal control officer determines
that the circumstances require special preventive measures, then the animal
control officer shall have the authority to require appropriate, specific
preventive measures which might include, but are not limited to, the one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Necessary repairs to any fence or enclosure.
      (2)   Measures to ensure that a gate will remain secure.
      (3)   A secure fence or any other similar device that would provide
greater assurance for the confinement of the dog.
      (4)   Requiring the owner to tattoo or microchip the dog at the owner’s
expense for identification, investigative, or enforcement purposes.
      (5)   Posting of “Beware of Dog” signage. Signage is to be reflective,
weatherproof, and of such size to be clearly seen by approaching persons.
   (C)   Written order. If the animal control officer determines that a dog
owner must take specific preventive measures, the animal control officer shall
notify the owner by a written order, stating the reasons that preventive
measures are required, identifying the specific preventive measures that must
be implemented, and stating a specified time they have, of not less than ten
days, to comply with order. The written notice may be served upon the owner by
hand delivery, first class U.S. mail to the owner’s last known address, or by
posting the written notice on the door of the residence or premises where the
dog is housed. The animal control officer shall have the authority to allow for
reasonable extensions of time limits based on good faith progress of
implementation of the preventive measures. Any approved extensions shall be in
writing.
   (D)   Failure to comply with written order. It shall be unlawful for an
owner to fail to comply with a written order to take preventive measures within
the designated time for compliance stated in the written order or any extension
thereof. If the owner fails to comply, the animal can be impounded by an animal
control officer and held at an appropriate shelter pending a hearing by a court
of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Owner’s challenge to the written order for special preventative
measures. The owner may submit in writing a challenge to the animal control
officer’s determination that special preventive measures are required. If the
owner wishes to challenge the order for special preventative measures, the
owner must submit in writing the basis of the challenge within ten days of
service or the written order. The challenge must be directed to the Animal
Control Board and filed with the Health Director. The Board is authorized to
hear and decide the challenge to the order in the same manner as provided for
in §
91.20 of this subchapter. If an appeal from the Board’s decision is made to
Superior Court, and the Health Director makes written findings concluding that
the animal must be confined at the animal shelter pending review by the
Superior Court, the owner shall post a cash bond to cover the cost of the
animal’s care in accordance with §
91.11.
   (F)   Immediate impoundment. If the animal control officer determines that
the dog has inflicted life-threatening injuries or killed a human, or the owner
has failed to comply with preventive measures in the past, the animal control
officer may impound the animal immediately and hold it at the animal shelter
pending a hearing to determine disposition by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Any animal which shall be found in violation of §
91.14 shall be subject to immediate seizure and impounded at the animal
shelter. Any person finding any animal upon his property, in violation of §
91.14, to his injury or annoyance, shall be authorized to restrain such animal
in a humane manner and to thereupon either notify the animal control officer,
who shall take possession of the animal for impoundment, or deliver the animal
directly to the animal shelter. The animal may, consistent with the provisions
of this subchapter, be redeemed by the owner upon payment of the costs assessed
by the animal shelter and fines assessed for violation of any section of this
subchapter. Upon failure of the owner to redeem the animal as set forth herein,
the animal shall be disposed of by the animal shelter as provided in this
subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   Generally. Any animal which appears to be lost, stray or
unwanted, or which is found to be not wearing a currently valid rabies
vaccination tag, as required by state law or this subchapter and not under
restraint in violation of this subchapter, shall be impounded by the department
and confined in the county animal shelter in a humane manner. Impoundment of
such an animal shall not relieve the custodian thereof from any penalty which
may be imposed for violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   Notice to owner. Immediately upon impounding an animal, the animal
control officer shall make a reasonable effort to notify the owner and inform
such owner of the condition whereby the animal may be redeemed, which shall
include inspection of the animal for microchip or tattoo. If the owner is
unknown or cannot be located, a notice of such impoundment showing the time of
impoundment shall be posted at the office of the animal control officer for at
least 72 hours, or until the animal is disposed of.
      (3)   Redemption by owner generally. The owner/custodian of an animal
impounded under this section may redeem the animal and regain possession
thereof within 72 hours after notice of impoundment is given or posted as
required by division (B)(2) of this section, by complying with all applicable
provisions of this section, production of proof of ownership, payment of the
assessed fines and fees, any necessary veterinarian’s fee, and daily boarding
fees at rates as determined by the Board of County Commissioners.
      (4)   The provisions of this section shall have no application with
respect to animals surrendered by the owner or custodian to the animal shelter
for adoption or destruction.
      (5)   Destruction or adoption of unredeemed animal generally. An
unredeemed animal may be destroyed or adopted according to the following
procedures:
         (a)   If an impounded animal is not redeemed by the owner/custodian
within the period prescribed in division (B)(3) of this section, it may be
destroyed in a humane manner or offered for adoption to any responsible adult
who is willing to comply with this subchapter. Such animal may be adopted by a
person who meets adoption requirements, pays the adoption fee and rabies
vaccination fee.
         (b)   The operator of the animal shelter shall require that all
animals released for adoption from the animal shelter be spayed or neutered.
         (c)   No animal which has been impounded by reason of its being a
stray, or unclaimed by its owner/custodian, shall be allowed to be adopted from
the animal shelter during a period of emergency rabies quarantine invoked by
the Health Director pursuant to state law.
      (6)   Procedure for redemption or adoption of unvaccinated animals.
Unvaccinated animals may be redeemed or adopted according to the following
provisions:
         (a)   Any person adopting or reclaiming any animal at the animal
shelter shall have the animal vaccinated prior to it leaving the shelter.
         (b)   Payment for rabies vaccination will be the responsibility of the
person redeeming or adopting the animal.
      (7)   Suspected rabid animals not to be redeemed or adopted.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, animals impounded which
appear to be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or adopted but shall
be dealt with in accordance with this subchapter and applicable state laws.
      (8)   Destruction of wounded or diseased animals. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, any animal impounded that is badly wounded or
diseased and has no identification may be destroyed immediately in a humane
manner. If the animal has identification, the animal control department and/or
the animal shelter attendants shall attempt to notify the owner/custodian
before disposing of such animal. However, if the owner/custodian cannot be
readily reached, and the animal is suffering, the animal control department
and/or the animal shelter attendants may destroy the animal at its discretion
in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.17 SEIZURE AND DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Authority to seize animals. In addition to any other authority or
procedure authorized by this subchapter or by any other law to seize an animal,
the animal control officer shall have the authority to summarily seize any
animal from premises when the animal control officer determines that the animal
in the surrounding circumstances is dangerous to the public safety or public
health. Upon summarily seizing an animal, the animal control officer shall
provide the owner with a written order of seizure. When livestock found off
their owner’s property are seized, reasonable efforts shall be made to identify
and notify the owner of the livestock.
   (B)   Obligation of owner to comply with seizure order. When the animal
control officer serves the
owner with a written order of seizure, it shall be unlawful for the owner to
fail to comply with the order or to interfere with the animal control officer.
A sworn law enforcement officer shall accompany the animal control officer to
seize the animal.
   (C)   A challenge to the seizure order. If the owner wishes to challenge the
seizure order, then the owner must submit in writing the basis of the challenge
within ten days of the seizure of the animal, not counting the day of seizure
of the animal. The challenge must be directed to the Animal Control Board and
filed with the Health Director. The Board is authorized to hear and decide the
challenge to the seizure order in the same manner as provided for in §
91.20 of this subchapter.
   (D)   Owner’s redemption of animal. The owner is entitled to redeem the
animal, unless the animal shelter retains the animal upon some other basis of
legal authority, by paying all applicable costs and boarding fees, and
complying with any outstanding orders of the animal control officer.
   (E)   Termination of owner’s rights. If an owner fails to comply with the
requirements that constituted the basis for seizing the animal, or fails to
reclaim the animal within any applicable time period, then the animal control
shelter shall have the authority to humanely destroy the animal or place the
animal for sale to the public, or to place the animal with a local humane
society for future placement through the humane society.
   (F)   Release of ownership of animal. If an owner wishes to release
ownership of an animal to Polk County, the owner may do so by signing a release
form indicating they understand the animal may be euthanized if not adopted or
if in the discretion of the animal control officer, the animal is un-adoptable.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 DANGEROUS/POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   General provisions. It shall be unlawful for any person to own or in
any way maintain or harbor an animal that is dangerous/potentially dangerous,
except as provided in this subchapter. Notwithstanding any exemption listed
below, any animal which has killed a person shall be immediately euthanized by
the animal control officer.
   (B)   Animal control officers shall have the power to declare an animal as a
potentially dangerous animal if the officer determines, in consultation with
the Health Director, that the animal so qualifies.
   (C)   Upon a determination that an animal is potentially dangerous, the
Health Director shall serve upon the owner or custodian of the animal a written
notice that their animal has been determined to be potentially dangerous. The
notice shall give the reasons for the determination and any special precautions
and/or requirements the owner/custodian is required to make. The written notice
shall be served upon the owner or custodian by personal service or by certified
mail return receipt requested to the last known address of the owner/custodian.
The owner/custodian may appeal the determination by filing with the Health
Director a notice of appeal within ten days of service. Upon the expiration of
the time to appeal, or an unsuccessful appeal made to the Animal Control Board
the animal shall be deemed a dangerous animal.
   (D)   The Health Director shall have the authority to require the owner/
custodian of a potential dangerous or a dangerous animal to:
      (1)   Procure liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000 and
to present proof of insurance to the Health Director;
      (2)   Have the animal microchipped;
      (3)   Confine the animal within a secure building or a securely enclosed
and padlocked pen approved by Animal Control with a concrete bottom and secure
top on the owner’s premises at all times (the owner/custodian shall have up to
30 days to complete construction of a pen, during which time the animal must be
confined within a premises approved by Animal Control);
      (4)   Control the animal with a muzzle of the appropriate size covering
the entire nose and mouth and be under physical restraint by a competent person
by means of a leash or chain when on the premises and not in a secure building
or enclosure and anytime when off premises. The muzzle in use must be one
approved by Polk County Animal Control;
      (5)   Inform any and all visitors to the property that there is a
dangerous/potentially dangerous animal on the property and to take adequate
precautions to ensure the safety of visitors;
      (6)   To immediately notify Animal Control if the animal escapes, is off
leash or if the animal is moved to a new location.
      (7)   Post a warning sign, of at least 120 square inches that is
reflective and weatherproof which is to be visible to any adjoining property
from each exposure of the residence or the structure in which the animal is
confined (each sign must have an approved graphic representation of an
appropriate animal such that the dangerousness of the animal in communicated to
those who cannot read, including young children);
      (8)   Keep any dog deemed dangerous out of any public places or areas
including but not limited to public recreation areas, dog parks, and greenways.
   (E)   Inspection. The animal control officers shall cause periodic
inspections to be made of the premises where the dangerous/potentially
dangerous animal is kept to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter and requirements of the Health Director.
   (F)   Immediate impoundment. Any dangerous/potentially dangerous animal kept
in violation of this section may be immediately impounded. Upon issuance of a
warrant for the same, pending a hearing to determine disposition by a court of
competent jurisdiction. If the owner is convicted of a criminal offense of
keeping a dangerous/potentially dangerous animal in violation of this section,
in addition to any criminal penalties imposed, the Health Director may
euthanize the animal. Costs of impoundment shall be paid by the owner or
custodian of the animal.
   (G)   Release from impoundment – No criminal charges. No animal deemed
dangerous/potentially dangerous who has been impounded without criminal charges
shall be released from impoundment except upon proof submitted by the owner or
custodian that all the elements of this subchapter and requirements of the
Health Director have been met and verified by the animal control officers.
   (H)   Release from impoundment – Criminal charges. If criminal charges have
been brought against the owner for failure to comply with the subchapter or for
interference with the operations of the Health Director, the animal shall not
be released from impoundment until so ordered by a court of competent
jurisdiction. The owner/custodian shall be responsible for the cost of
impoundment.
   (I)   No animal deemed dangerous/potentially dangerous may be adopted and
must be spayed or neutered within 30 days of the determination.
   (J)   Notification of change of address or owner/custodian within 24 hours.
The owner/custodian of the animal shall provide the Sheriff written
notification of the change of address of owner/custodian, stating the full name
of the owner/custodian, their address, and phone number. Prior to transfer of
ownership/custody of a dangerous/potentially dangerous animal, the owner/
custodian must provide the Sheriff a written statement, signed before a notary
by the transferee, indicating the transferee’s understanding of the
transferee’s obligations hereunder as an owner/custodian of a dangerous/
potentially dangerous animal. If the dangerous/potentially dangerous animal is
being transferred out of Polk County, the owner/custodian of the animal must
notify the Sheriff. The Sheriff will notify the new jurisdiction that the
animal has been deemed dangerous and the circumstances surrounding the case.
   (K)   Upon the death of a dangerous/potentially dangerous animal, the owner/
custodian shall provide written notification of the animal’s death to the
Sheriff.
   (L)   If an animal that has been deemed a dangerous/potentially dangerous
animal aggressively and without provocation bites a human being, the animal
will be immediately impounded, appeal rights waived, owner’s rights terminated,
and result in civil and criminal penalties.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 CIVIL PENALTY; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided herein, any person who violates any
provision of this subchapter shall be subject to a civil penalty for each level
of violation in accordance with this ordinance. Fines shall be established by
the Polk County Board of Commissioners based on the level and nature of the
violation and number of repeat offences. If the violation is continued, each
day’s violation shall constitute a separate offense. For the purposes of this
section, repeat violations occur where the agency has issued a fine for the
same offense within a 24-month period. Nothing in this section shall prevent
agency representatives from issuing warning violations.
   (B)   The animal owner or custodian shall be issued a written notice of
violation and penalty which shall be required to make payment to the Polk
County Finance Department within ten days of receipt of notice. Notice of the
civil penalty and violation shall be delivered in person to the violator or
mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the violator’s last
known address. If the applicable civil penalty is not paid within the period
prescribed, a civil action may be commenced to recover the penalty and costs
associated with the collection of the penalty. If the applicable civil penalty
is not paid within 60 days, he shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor under
G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   (1)   Level I:
         (a)   Unsightly fitter, foul or offensive odors.
         (b)   Keeping a cage too close to the property line.
         (c)   Animal causing property damage.
         (d)   Maintaining animals in an unsanitary environment.
         (e)   Maintaining animal wastes.
         (f)   Failure to dispose of a dead animal.
         (g)   Animal at large.
      (2)   Level II:
         (a)   Animal bite.
         (b)   Animal frequently at large.
         (c)   Failure to confine a dog in heat.
         (d)   Failure to provide care of animal.
         (e)   Unsafe transport of animal.
         (f)   Unsafe confinement of an animal in a vehicle.
         (g)   Intentionally striking an animal with a motor vehicle.
         (h)   Failure to report striking an animal with a motor vehicle.
         (i)   Distribution of un-weaned cats and dogs.
      (3)   Level III:
         (a)   Interference with an Animal Control Officer.
         (b)   Concealment of an animal.
         (c)   Vaccination of dogs and cats required; vaccination of other
pets.
         (d)   Vaccination tag and certification.
         (e)   Keeping of a dangerous animal.
         (f)   Maintaining property in an offensive, annoying or dangerous
manner.
         (g)   Maintaining diseased animal.
         (h)   Cruelty to animals.
         (i)   Promoting animal cruelty.
         (j)   Abandoning an animal.
         (k)   Animal used unnatural behavior.
         (l)   Keeping a wild or exotic animal.
         (m)   Failure to comply with a dangerous dog order.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 INJUNCTIONS.
   Any provision of this subchapter which makes unlawful a condition existing
upon or use made of real property may be enforced by injunction and order of
abatement. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the Health Director
through either the County Attorney or applicable municipality’s attorney, or
any resident of the county or applicable municipality, may apply to the court
in Polk County for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of abatement
commanding the defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the
unlawful use of the property.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.21 ANIMAL CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   There is established the Polk County Animal Control Board.
   (B)   The animal control board shall be composed of five members to be
appointed by the board of commissioners. Of the members at least one member
shall be a person with knowledge and experience in dog behavior and/or
handling, one member shall have an interest in promoting the goals of the
Animal Protection Society or the Humane Society or another such broadly-based
and representative organization interested in the care and protection or
animals, and the other members shall represent the public at large. The members
shall serve staggered three-year terms; three members shall have terms that
expire on June 30 in even number years following the year of their initial
appointment and two members shall have terms that expire on June 30 of odd-
numbered years.
   (C)   The powers and duties of the animal control board shall include:
      (1)   Appointing three of its members to sit on the animal control appeal
board;
      (2)   Providing advice and information to the animal control department;
      (3)   Upon coordination with the animal control supervisor and health
director, making recommendations to the board of commissioners for the
betterment of the county’s animal control program;
      (4)   In conjunction with the animal control department and health
director, proving for a program of public education, information and outreach
concerning responsible pet ownership, animal cruelly, and the county’s animal
control program; and
      (5)   Selecting officers of the board, including a chairperson, and
adopting rules of procedure.
   (D)   A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the animal
control board to conduct its meetings. The animal control board shall adopt a
schedule of regular meetings and post and file it with the clerk to the board
of commissioners and otherwise as required by the open meetings law. In
addition, the animal control board may hold such special or emergency meetings,
upon the call of the chairperson or a majority of its members, as may be
appropriate in the circumstances, subject to compliance with the open meetings
law.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.22 ANIMAL CONTROL APPEALS.
   (A)   There is established the animal control appeal board.
   (B)   The animal control appeal board shall consist of three members to be
appointed by the animal control board from among its members. The members shall
serve staggered three-year terms. Any two members of the animal control appeal
board shall constitute a quorum for conducting a meeting.
   (C)   The powers and duties of the animal control board shall include:
      (1)   Selecting a chairperson to preside over its appeal hearings.
      (2)   Hear and determine all appeals from determinations made in
administering this subchapter excluding matters referred to criminal
prosecution or civil actions for injunctive relief.
   (D)   Upon determination made under this subchapter from which an appeal is
authorized, the owner of the animal or other aggrieved person may appeal the
determination by filing written objections with the Health Director, directed
to the Animal Control Board within ten days. Upon timely receipt of an appeal,
all appeals will be scheduled and processed as set forth in the rules of the
Animal Control Board, with appeals therefrom the Superior Court as provided in
such rules.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.23 NEGLIGENCE PER SE.
   (A)   This section is included in this subchapter in order to impose a
public duty upon persons having possession of animals to prevent those animals
from attacking another person due to a possible violation of the following
sections:
      (1)   Section
91.14 Restraint of animals.
      (2)   Section
91.12 Exotic or wild animals.
      (3)   Section
91.15 Protective measures for containment of animals (failing to comply with
instructions to impose preventive measures).
   (B)   Such persons having possession of animals have imposed upon them a
public duty designed to promote the safety of other persons, and a violation of
any of those sections listed in division (A) of this section is negligence per
se and could give rise to the recovery of damages for personal injuries in a
civil action by an injured person against the person owning or having
possession, charge, custody or control of the animal causing the injuries.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
§ 91.24 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   These rules and regulations shall be in full force and effective from and
after January 16, 2024.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2021)
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 91.25 KEEPING OF LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Keeping of livestock prohibited. It shall be unlawful to keep or
maintain any cow, horse, pony, mule, sheep, goat, chickens, guinea, poultry and
or other livestock within any pen, stable or other enclosure or building within
the corporate limits; provided, that this section shall not be deemed to
prohibit the assembling of livestock for shipment or the unloading from
shipment of livestock; provided that the livestock are not kept within the
corporate limits for more than 24 hours prior to shipment or subsequent to
unloading.
   (B)   Use of goats for kudzu control. Notwithstanding the provisions of
division (A) above, goats may be temporarily maintained on a lot for the
purpose of eradicating kudzu on that lot. Fencing shall be required whenever
goats are used, and a temporary use permit shall be required.
(Ord. passed 3-6-1986; Am. Ord. 2009-07, passed 9-17-2009) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 HOGS, PIGS AND THE LIKE.
   No person, firm or corporation shall keep any hogs or pigs, or have any hog
or pigpens within 500 feet from the residence or place of business of any
person other than the owner of the hogs or pigs, within the town limits of the
town.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1971) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 OWNERSHIP OF DOGS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall own any dog or dogs within the
corporate limits of the town, which shall bark in such a manner as to create a
nuisance. Barking by the dog or dogs which shall disturb residents of the town
by keeping the residents from sleeping or enjoying the privacy of their own
home to such an extent as they are entitled to, shall constitute a nuisance;
the disturbance shall be considered as a nuisance when a petition is filed by
at least three residents with the Council members of the town complaining of
the nuisance.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall maintain within the town any dog
lot or kennel within 20 feet of an adjoining land owner's residence, which dog
lot or kennel shall have incarcerated therein more than one dog; to do so shall
be considered as a nuisance per se in the event at least three citizens of the
town shall file a petition with the Council members of the town therein
complaining of the foregoing.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1971) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any persons violating the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.24 shall be subject to a civil penalty as provided in §
91.19 and the civil penalty fine schedule below.
 
Civil Penalty Fine Schedule
FIRST OFFENSE  SECOND OFFENSE THIRD OFFENSE EACH ADDITIONAL OFFENSE
LEVEL I   $50  $75            $100          $250
LEVEL II  $75  $125           $250          $500
LEVEL III $100 $250           $500          $1,000
 
   (C)   (1)   The violation of any provision of §
91.25 shall subject the offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to be
recovered by the town. Violators shall be issued a written citation, which must
be paid within 72 hours.
      (2)   Each days continuing violation of §
91.25 shall be a separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   Notwithstanding division (C)(1) above, §
91.25 may also be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing from a
court of competent jurisdiction or by criminal penalties as provided in G.S. §
14-4.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §
91.26 shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalty set forth in the town’s
fee schedule.
   (E)   Any person violating §
91.27 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
fined not more than $50 or imprisoned for not more than ten days. Violation of
§
91.27 shall be within the exclusive jurisdiction of the duly appointed
magistrates of the county, but nothing herein shall prevent a party being found
guilty of violations of §
91.27 of having the absolute right of appeal to the Superior Court of the
county, whereupon the case shall be tried de novo before a jury.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1971; Ord. passed 2-9-1978; Ord. passed 3-6-1986; Ord. passed
9-16-2021)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Interference with firefighters
   
92.02   Unauthorized riding on fire vehicles
   
92.03   False fire alarms
   
92.04   Possession of dynamite and the like
   
92.05   Outside fires
   
92.06   Burning of trash, shavings and the like
   
92.07   Deposit of ashes and other matter subject to spontaneous combustion
   
92.08   Construction and maintenance of chimneys
   
92.09   Fire exits and escapes in hotels, theaters and the like
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.20   Title
   
92.21   Intent of code
   
92.22   Fire Department to enforce code
   
92.23   Inspection of buildings and premises
   
92.24   Permits
   
92.25   Service of orders or notices
   
92.26   Tank installation and removal
   
92.27   Removal of obstructions; prohibited parking
   
92.28   Emergency entry
   
92.29   Investigation of fires
   
92.30   Fire records
Open Burning
   
92.40   Adoption
Specific Provisions
   
92.50   Primary fire limit; restrictions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the firefighters of
the Fire Department in the discharge of their duties.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-1) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 UNAUTHORIZED RIDING ON FIRE VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to board or ride upon any fire vehicle
of the town unless that person is a regular firefighter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-2) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or cause to be given any false
alarm of fire.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-3) Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   False fire alarms, see G.S. § 14-286
§ 92.04 POSSESSION OF DYNAMITE AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, have or store for the
purpose of sale any dynamite or other explosive within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-4) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 OUTSIDE FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or maintain a bonfire or fire
for the purpose of burning rubbish, trash or leaves.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-5) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 BURNING OF TRASH, SHAVINGS AND THE LIKE.
   No trash, paper, shavings or other material shall be burned in any street in
the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-6) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 DEPOSIT OF ASHES AND OTHER MATTER SUBJECT TO SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION.
   Ashes, smoldering coals or embers, greasy or oily substances and all other
matter which is subject to spontaneous combustion, unless kept in metallic or
noncombustible receptacles, shall not be deposited within 15 feet of any wooden
or plastered wall, partition, fence, floor of lumber, rubbish or other
combustible material. The receptacles, unless resting on the ground outside of
a building, must be placed on noncombustible stands and shall be kept free from
any wall or partition by at least two feet. Nothing in this section shall
prohibit the deposit of cold or wet ashes and cinders for purposes of improving
an unpaved alley or walkway.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-7) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF CHIMNEYS.
   All chimneys, smokestacks and similar devices for conveying smoke or gases
to the outer air from stoves, furnaces, fireboxes or ovens must not only be
constructed and located in accordance with the Building Code, but they must
also be maintained in such manner that they do not endanger adjacent property
or create a fire hazard.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-8) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 FIRE EXITS AND ESCAPES IN HOTELS, THEATERS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any building operated as a
hotel, theater, apartment building, whether so operated by the owner or by
another, to provide at least two safe and adequate inside ways of fire escape
from the top floor and correcting intervening floors of the building extending
to the ground, and to keep the same in proper repair.
      (2)   It shall further be the duty of the owner to provide an outside
fire escape extending from the top floor and connecting intervening floors to
the ground on all buildings more than two stories high, and to keep the same in
proper repair.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the owner of any building used as a
public hall, theater or the like, where the public may assemble of right,
whether by general invitation or purchase of ticket, to provide at least two
safe and adequate exits from different sides of the building, the exits to be
not less than five feet wide, with stairways of equal widths extending to the
ground, and to keep the same in good repair.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to examine
all the buildings at least once each year, and as often as the Chief may deem
necessary, and if the exits and escapes are not provided or the buildings not
in safe repair, to give notice to the owner to have the same constructed or put
in proper repair. If the notice is not observed within 30 days after service,
and the exits and escapes erected or put in safe repair, the owner shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-9) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Fire Prevention and Protection Code
of the Town of Columbus," and may be cited as such and referred to herein as
the code.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-20)
§ 92.21 INTENT OF CODE.
   (A)   It is the intent of the code to prescribe regulations consistent with
nationally recognized good practice for the safe guarding of life and property
within the jurisdiction of the town from the hazards of fire and explosion
arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials
and devices, and from hazardous conditions in the use or occupancy of buildings
or premises.
   (B)   The code shall not be construed to hold the town responsible for any
damage to persons or property by reason of the inspection or re-inspection
authorized herein or failure to inspect or re-inspect or the permits issued or
denied as herein provided or by reason of the approval or disapproval of any
equipment authorized herein.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-21)
§ 92.22 FIRE DEPARTMENT TO ENFORCE CODE.
   The Fire Prevention and Protection Code of the town shall be enforced by the
Fire Department and his or her authorized representatives or as otherwise
provided herein.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-22)
§ 92.23 INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISES.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department under the direction of the Fire Chief is
hereby authorized and empowered to make an inspection of all businesses and
commercial structures situated within the town for the purpose of determining
if there exists any fire hazards within the structures.
   (B)   In the event upon the inspection there is found to exist within the
business or commercial structure a condition that within the opinion of the
members of the Volunteer Fire Department making the inspection constitutes a
fire hazard, the fire hazard shall be reduced to writing by the inspectors and
a copy of the same delivered to the occupants of the structure and owner of the
structure if the owner can be found. In the event the building is vacant the
fire hazard shall be reduced to writing and either delivered to or mailed to
the owner of the building. The owner of the building shall be deemed notified
of the fire hazard upon the same being reduced to writing and placed in the
United States Mail to the owner at the address of the owner shown on the tax
records of the town.
   (C)   Upon notice being received of the fire hazards by the occupant or
owner as hereinabove provided, the occupant or owner shall have 30 days within
which to eliminate or correct the fire hazard as shown to exist on the notice.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-24)
§ 92.24 PERMITS.
   (A)   This code shall require permits from the Fire Department as set forth
in the State Fire Prevention Code of the State Building Code.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Fire Department to evaluate applications
and issue, if approved, all permits for those conditions as prescribed in the
State Fire Prevention Code of the State Building Code and this code.
   (C)   No person shall maintain, store or handle materials or conduct
processes which produce conditions hazardous to life or property or install
equipment used in connection with the activities without a permit as required
by the Fire Department and prescribed in Volume V-Fire Prevention of the State
Building Code and this code. Before a permit may be issued, the Fire Department
shall inspect and approve the receptacles, vehicles, buildings, structures,
storage areas, devices, processes and conditions related to the permit.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-25) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 SERVICE OF ORDERS OR NOTICES.
   (A)   The service of orders or notices for the correction of violations of
the code shall be made upon the owner, occupant or other person responsible for
the conditions, either by personally delivering a copy of same to the person or
by delivering the same to and leaving it with any person in charge of the
premises or by sending a copy of the order or notice by certified or registered
mail to the owner's last known address.
   (B)   When buildings or other premises are occupied by one other than the
owner under a lease or other agreement, the orders or notices issued to correct
violations of the code shall apply to the occupant thereof; provided that where
the order or notices require the making of additions to or changes in the
premises themselves which may become part of the real property of the owner,
then in those cases, the orders or notices shall also be issued to the owner of
the premises or real property. Failure to deliver an order or notice to the
owner, if other than the occupant, shall not invalidate the order or notice.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-26)
§ 92.26 TANK INSTALLATION AND REMOVAL.
   Before any tank for underground or aboveground storage of volatile flammable
or combustible liquids or any other hazardous material covered by the
provisions of this code shall be installed, a permit must be issued and shall
be granted only upon written application made to the Building Inspector setting
forth therein the location, character size and capacity of the tank, and the
purpose for which it is to be used and an agreement that the applicant or user
will conform to all the provisions of this code and the ordinances then
existing, and in case a pump is to be used in connection therewith, the
application shall state its location with respect to the tanks and with respect
to the property line. The Building Inspector shall determine whether the
proposed tanks comply with the provisions of the code, the ordinances of the
town, and laws of the state, and shall issue the permit if he or she finds
there is compliance. The Building Inspector shall have the right to inspect the
tanks and appliances before and after installation, and see that its location,
installation and operation are in accordance with this code, the ordinances of
the town and laws of the state. After the tank is placed in the excavation, and
fittings and connections have been attached, thereto, and before it has been
covered or concealed from inspection, the applicant for the permit shall notify
the Building Inspector and shall wait until the installation of the tank
connections and fittings have been approved by the Inspector before covering
them.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-27)
§ 92.27 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS; PROHIBITED PARKING.
   Any vehicle found obstructing any fire hydrant, fire protection equipment,
designated and marked fire lane, or fire station may be removed or towed away
by or under the direction of the Fire Department to a storage area or garage.
The owner of the vehicle shall be deemed to have appointed the Fire Department
as his or her agent for the purpose of arranging for the transportation and
safe storage of the vehicle. The owner of the vehicle, before obtaining
possession thereof, shall pay all reasonable cost incidental to the removal and
storage of the vehicle due for the violation of prohibited parking.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-30)
§ 92.28 EMERGENCY ENTRY.
   The Fire Department shall have the right to enter any building or premises
without permission or warrant in the event of any emergency situation
constituting a threat to human life, property or the public safety for the
purpose of eliminating, controlling or abating the dangerous condition or
situation.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-31)
§ 92.29 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall investigate the cause, origin and
circumstances of every fire occurring in the town which is of a suspicious
nature or which involves loss of life or injury to persons or when
circumstances warrant. The investigation shall begin immediately upon the
occurrence of the fire and, if it appears that the fire is of suspicious
origin, the Fire Department shall immediately coordinate investigation
activities. Any information obtained pursuant to any such investigation shall
be confidential as authorized by law.
   (B)   The Police Department, upon request of the Fire Department or his or
her authorized agent may render such assistance as necessary in the
investigation of any fire determined to be of suspicious origin.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-32)
§ 92.30 FIRE RECORDS.
   The Fire Department's office shall keep a record of all fires and emergency
alarms and of all the facts concerning the same, including statistics as to the
extent of the fires and the damages caused thereby. All such records shall be
public except as provided in §
92.29 above.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-33)
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.40 ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted by the governing body §§ 1900, 1901, 1902, 1903 and
1904 of the Regulations of the State Department of Environment, Health and
Natural resources Division of Environmental Management Air Quality Section as
promulgated in the State Administrative Code in effect January 1, 1999; and the
same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out in length
herein, and from the date on which this section shall take effect, the
provisions thereof, except to the extent by other town ordinances more
restrictive-shall be controlling within the limits of the Town, copies of which
shall be kept in the Fire Department's office and in the Town Manager's office.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-51)
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 92.50 PRIMARY FIRE LIMIT; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The primary fire limit is hereby designated as 200 feet each side of
N.C. Highway # 108 from the intersection of the highway with the western
Central Business District Zoning Boundary line of the town to the intersection
of the highway with the eastern Central Business Zoning Boundary line of the
town.
   (B)   No frame or wooden building or structure or addition thereto shall
hereafter be erected, altered, repaired or moved (either into the primary fire
limit or from one place to another within the primary fire limit) except upon
the permit of the local inspection department approved by the Commissioner of
Insurance, and if none, then the Council.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of this
section shall upon conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 14-4. Furthermore, the town may
apply to the General Court Justice of the state for injunctive relief and/or
damages.
(Ord. passed 11-8-1990)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.09,
92.20 through
92.30 and
92.40, or who shall fail to comply with any judicial warrant, lawful, order or
regulation made thereunder or who builds in violation of any specifications or
plans submitted and approved thereunder or any permit issued thereunder, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that the violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. In the name of the town, the Fire Department,
through the Town Attorney, may enjoin the construction or erection of any
facility, building or structure which does not conform to the provisions of the
code.
      (2)   The Fire Prevention Code may be enforced by any of the remedies set
forth in G.S. § 160A-175, in addition to others specifically set out herein or
in this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.09,
92.20 through
92.30 and
92.40 shall be subject to a civil penalty for each violation in the amount
established by the ordinance of the Town Council. See Town Civil Penalty
Schedule. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct
offense.
      (4)   In the event the owner or occupant of any business or commercial
building or structure does not eliminate or correct existing fire hazards after
being notified thereof within the time hereinabove specified, both the occupant
and the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$50 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days. For each day the occupant or owner
allows the fire hazard to exist after the expiration of the period hereinabove
set forth for correcting or eliminating the same, such shall be considered a
separate violation of the law and the penalty hereinabove provided may be
assessed for each and every day the violation exists. In the event the Fire
Department deems it advisable and for the best interest of the citizens of the
town the Fire Department may through the office of the District Attorney seek
an order from the District Court of the county to require that the business or
commercial structure be closed until such time as the existing fire hazard has
been eliminated or corrected.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate §
92.40 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such
persons shall be required to cease and desist therefrom when commanded by the
Fire Department to do so.
(Ord. passed - -, § 5-29; Ord. passed - -, § 5-52)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE ALARMS
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Registration of fire alarm system
   
93.04   Inspection, testing and maintenance
   
93.05   Fire alarm activation; response
   
93.06   Nuisance fire alarms
   
93.07   Service fees
   
93.08   Remedies
   
93.09   Confidentiality
   
93.10   Appeal
   
93.11   Government immunity
   
Appendix A:   Service fees
   
Appendix B:   Service fee policy
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to encourage owners and alarm
businesses to properly use and maintain the operational effectiveness of fire
alarm systems in order to improve the reliability of fire alarm systems and
reduce or eliminate false fire alarms and nuisance fire alarms.
   (B)   This chapter governs fire alarm systems intended to summon fire
personnel, and requires registration, assessment of fees for excessive false
fire alarms and nuisance fire alarms, provides procedures for repeat offenders,
provides for the severability of the parts hereof if declared invalid, and
provides an effective date.
   (C)   This chapter does not govern the individual homeowner installing his
or her own fire alarm system. If once installed the fire alarm system becomes a
monitor system as defined in this chapter, it will then be governed by this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADOPTED CODE(S). Code adopted by the jurisdiction and in the absence of
adopted code, the National Fire Protection Association, National Fire Alarm
Code 72 (NFPA 72) and the National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code
101 (NFPA 101) and
Chapter 92 of this code.
   ALARM BUSINESS. Any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity
that is appropriately licensed in the state/jurisdiction and installs, causes
to be installed, permits to be installed, alters, maintains, repairs, replaces
or services (including runner services) any fire alarm system.
   ALARM INITIATING DEVICE. A device that is designed to respond either
manually or automatically to smoke, fire or activation of a fire suppression
system.
   COMMERCIAL. Concerning business, marketing.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The Fire Chief or his or her designated
representative.
   FALSE FIRE ALARM. The activation of any fire alarm system which results in a
response by a public safety agency and which is caused by the negligence or
intentional misuse of the fire alarm system by the owner, its employees, agents
or any other activation of a fire alarm system not caused by heat, smoke or
fire, exclusive of a nuisance fire alarm.
   FEE. The assessment of a monetary charge payable to the county, enforcement
official or jurisdiction authorized pursuant to this chapter, to defray the
expenses of responding to a false fire alarm or nuisance fire alarm.
   FIRE ALARM ACTIVATION REPORT. A document issued by the enforcement official
indicating that the activation was deemed to be the result of fire alarm
activation due to fire, a nuisance fire alarm, or a false fire alarm.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. A system or portion of a combination system consisting of
components and circuits arranged to monitor and/or exterior annunciate the
status of an alarm or supervisory signal-initiating devices and to initiate the
appropriate response to those signals.
   MONITORED SYSTEM. The process by which an alarm business receives signals
from a fire alarm system and notifies emergency forces and/or a fire alarm
system that once it is installed has the ability to notify emergency forces
either through an alarm business or through dialing 911.
   NUISANCE FIRE ALARM. The activation of any alarm system, which results in a
response by the Fire Department, caused by mechanical failure, malfunction,
improper installation, lack of proper maintenance or any other response for
which the public service personnel are unable to determine the apparent cause
of the alarm activation.
   OWNER. Any person who owns the premises in which a fire alarm system is
installed or the person or persons, who lease, operate, occupy or manage the
premises.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure or combination of buildings and
structures.
   QUALIFIED ALARM TECHNICIAN. Any person who inspects, installs, repairs or
performs maintenance on alarm systems. This person shall be: factory trained
and certified; National Institute of Certification in Engineering Technologies
(NICET) Fire Alarm Level II certified; or licensed or certified by state or
local authority.
   RECORD OF COMPLETION. The completion of a form equivalent to the record of
completion form included in the National Fire Protection Association's National
Fire Alarm Code (NFPA 72).
   REGISTRATION. The notification by an owner to town office that a fire alarm
system has been installed and is in use.
   REPORT OF SERVICE/REPAIR. Appropriate documentation in a format acceptable
to the enforcement official that verifies proper repairs or maintenance have
been performed by both the alarm business and the owner.
   SERVE. Hand-delivery of written notification by a representative of the
jurisdiction to the owner or authorized representative who responded to the
premises. In the event the owner or authorized representative fails to respond
to the premises within 30 minutes, SERVE shall mean placing the form or other
matter in the United States mail; postage prepaid, addressed to the owner or
authorized representative.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.03 REGISTRATION OF FIRE ALARM SYSTEM.
   (A)   A one-time registration shall be required for fire alarm systems and
whenever a record of completion is prepared, in accordance with adopted codes.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a completed registration form, a fire alarm permit
shall be issued. Fire alarms operating prior to July 16, 2007 are required to
have a permit within 120 days from the effective date of this chapter. The
owner shall be assessed a fee of $100 if he or she fails to register an alarm
system as set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   The owner shall be required to re-register whenever there is a change
in the alarm business responsible for maintaining, servicing and/or monitoring
the fire alarm system.
   (D)   Registrations shall not be transferable from one premise to another or
from one owner to another.
   (E)   Every alarm business shall notify the town office of the existence of
a fire alarm system prior to the fire alarm system being put into operation. It
shall be the responsibility of the installing alarm business to provide the
owner with notice of the existence of this chapter, a registration form and a
copy of the fire alarm system operation instructions in accordance with adopted
codes, and the manufacturer's instructions.
   (F)   The registration form shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name(s), address of the premises, mailing address (if different
from the address of the premises), business and home telephone number of the
owner, lessee, operator, manager or person in possession of the premises
wherein the fire alarm system is installed;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of a minimum of two persons
who can be notified by the enforcement official, in the event of the activation
of the fire alarm system, who shall be capable of responding to the premises
within 30 minutes, and who are authorized to enter the premises to ascertain
the status thereof;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the alarm business which
has contracted to service the fire alarm system and proof of proper state
licensing/registration with the enforcement official, if required. Proof of
proper state licensing may be a valid state licensing number;
      (4)   The date the registration is signed or the fire alarm system is
placed in operation for any reason; and
      (5)   Any other documentation that is required by the adopted codes.
   (G)   When any of the information required in division (F)(1), (F)(2) or (F)
(3) above has changed, it shall be reported to the town office by the owner
within 30 days of the owner becoming aware of the change;
   (H)   The owner shall complete and deliver the alarm system registration in
the required format to the town office before the fire system is activated or
placed into service. The alarm business, when authorized by the owner, may
assist the owner in accomplishing this submission of the fire alarm
registration to the town office.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.04 INSPECTION, TESTING AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The owner shall ensure that all fire alarm systems are inspected and
tested at least once per year in accordance with adopted codes.
   (B)   The owner shall ensure that all fire alarm systems are periodically
maintained per manufacturer specifications and adopted codes.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.05 FIRE ALARM ACTIVATION; RESPONSE.
   (A)   The owner shall be responsible for the activation of a fire alarm
system.
   (B)   A response to the activation of a fire alarm system shall result when
any officer or member of a public service agency is dispatched to the premises
where the fire alarm system has been activated.
      (1)   At the time of response, the enforcement official shall notify any
person identified in the registration required pursuant to §
93.03(F)(1), (F)(2) and (F)(3) above of the activation of the fire alarm system
and shall require the person to respond to the premises.
      (2)   In the event the fire alarm system is a monitored system, it is the
responsibility of the company monitoring the fire alarm system to notify any
person identified in the registration at the request of the enforcement
official.
      (3)   In the event the household fire alarm system is a monitored system,
it is the responsibility of the alarm business to offer the owner the option to
verify the fire alarm signal before dispatch, as allowed by adopted code.
   (C)   The officer or member of the public service agency who responded to
the premises shall serve the owner or authorized representative with a fire
alarm activation report.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.06 NUISANCE FIRE ALARMS.
   In the event the activation of a fire alarm system is deemed by the
enforcement official to be a nuisance fire alarm, the owner shall be served
with a fire alarm activation report by an officer or member of the public
service agency, indicating that the activation was deemed to be the result of a
nuisance fire alarm.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.07 SERVICE FEES.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any newly installed
fire alarm system for a period of 45 days from the date of installation, but
shall apply from and after the expiration of the initial 45-day period
following installation.
   (B)   Should any fee assessed pursuant to this chapter remain unpaid in
excess of 90 days from the date fee is billed, shall give the town the right to
levy a lien upon the land or the premises where the response arose and the levy
shall be collected in the same manner as unpaid taxes pursuant to authority of
G.S. § 153A-140.
   (C)   Fees should be paid according to established policy (see
Appendix B below).
   (D)   False fire alarm:
      (1)   No fee shall be assessed for the first two false fire alarms at the
same premises responded to by a public service agency each calendar year.
Thereafter, the owner shall pay the following fees for false fire alarms
responded to by the public service agency at the same premises during each
calendar year, except when the alarm business is responsible for the false fire
alarm;
      (2)   The alarm business shall be assessed a fee of (see
Appendix A below) if an enforcement official determines that a false fire alarm
was directly caused by an onsite employee or representative of the alarm
business. In this event, no false fire alarm shall be counted against the
owner;
      (3)   False fire alarms activated by any components connected to the fire
alarm system shall be included in computing the total number of false fire
alarms for purposes of this division;
      (4)   The activation of a fire alarm system will not be considered a
false fire alarm if the alarm is activated due to malicious causes beyond the
control of the owner; and
      (5)   The following fees shall be assessed for false fire alarms:
 
Number of False Fire Alarms Service Fee Per False Fire Alarm
First to second             $0
Third                       $50
Fourth                      $100
Fifth and above             Doubles each time
 
   (E)   Nuisance fire alarms:
      (1)   The following fees shall be assessed when a report of service/
repair has been returned to the enforcement official, but the nuisance fire
alarms continue:
 
Number of False Fire Alarms Service Fee
First to second             $0
Third                       $50
Fourth                      $100
Fifth and above             Doubles each time
 
      (2)   In the event the premises are equipped with an alarm system with
over 100 alarm initiating devices, the enforcement official may waive one
nuisance fire alarm per calendar year.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.08 REMEDIES.
   (A)   The enforcement official shall have the authority to direct the owner
of the premises to silence an activated alarm system, have corrective action
taken and thereafter reset it.
   (B)   Anyone convicted of falsifying reports as required under this chapter
is subject to maximum penalty as established by state law.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.09 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   Any information supplied to the enforcement official shall be held in
confidence by all employees or representatives of the enforcement official and
by any third-party administrator or employees of a third-party administrator
with access to that information.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.10 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any fire alarm user who has been assessed a penalty or whose
application for a permit has been denied, or whose permit has been revoked
under this chapter may request in writing, a hearing with the Town Council
within 30 days of the issuance of the penalty or denial. The town shall
schedule a hearing on the matter within a reasonable time from the date the
notice of appeal is filed.
   (B)   Failure to perfect an appeal within the time and in the manner
provided for in this section shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal.
   (C)   Appeal of decisions rendered by the Town Council will be as allowed by
state statutory and case law.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 93.11 GOVERNMENT IMMUNITY.
   Registration of a fire alarm system is not intended to, nor will it, create
a contract, duty or obligation, either expressed or implied, of response. Any
and all liability and consequential damage resulting from the failure to
respond to a notification is hereby disclaimed and governmental immunity as
provided by law is retained. When registering a fire alarm system, the owner
acknowledges that the public service agency response may be based on factors
such as: availability of Fire Department units, priority of calls, weather
conditions, traffic conditions, emergency conditions and staffing levels. The
county, its officers, employees and agents shall not assume any duty or
responsibility for the installation, maintenance, operation, repair or
effectiveness of any privately-owned alarm system, those duties or
responsibilities being solely those of the owner of the premises.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
APPENDIX A: SERVICE FEES
Description Reference Cost
Description                                    Reference   Cost
Failure to register an alarm                   §          $100
                                               93.03(B)
False alarm caused by an on site alarm company §          $50
employee                                       93.07(D)(2)
Service fee; first fire alarm                  §          $0
                                               93.07(D)(5)
Service fee; second fire alarm                 §          $0
                                               93.07(D)(5)
Service fee; third fire alarm                  §          $50
                                               93.07(D)(5)
Service fee; fourth fire alarm                 §          $100
                                               93.07(D)(5)
Service fee; fifth fire alarm                  §          $200
                                               93.07(D)(5)
Service fee; sixth and above fire alarm        §          Doubles each time
                                               93.07(D)(5)
Service fee; first nuisance alarm              §          $0
                                               93.07(E)(1)
Service fee; second nuisance alarm             §          $0
                                               93.07(E)(1)
Service fee; third nuisance alarm              §          $50
                                               93.07(E)(1)
Service fee; fourth nuisance alarm             §          $100
                                               93.07(E)(1)
Service fee; fifth nuisance alarm              §          $200
                                               93.07(E)(1)
Service fee; sixth nuisance alarm              §          Doubles each time
                                               93.07(E)(1)
Registration fee                               §          $5
                                               93.03
Re-registration fee                            §          $5
                                               93.03
 
(Ord. passed - -2007)
APPENDIX B: SERVICE FEE POLICY
   (A)   Background/purpose. This policy was written and implemented to
establish appropriate guidelines for the efficient collection of service fees
as established in
Chapter 93 of this code.
   (B)   Policy. It is the policy of town that payment is due within 30 days of
a fee being assessed.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   The primary Fire Department responding to the fire alarm will be
responsible for completing the ticket and assessing a fee.
      (2)   If, at the time of the response, the fee is unknown, this portion
of the ticket will be left unchecked and the person completing the ticket shall
write in the comment box "please contact the Town of Columbus Office for fee".
      (3)   The ticket may be left on scene with the occupants, and/or the
owner, and/or the emergency contact. A signature will be collected from the
person(s) accepting the ticket.
      (4)   If there is no one on scene to accept the ticket, it will be sent
by certified mail to the building owner.
      (5)   A copy of the ticket will stay with the fire department completing
the ticket. A third copy will be given to town.
      (6)   All payments made by check, must be made out to the Fire Department
assessing the fee (name of department will be at the bottom of the ticket).
      (7)   All payments will be sent to:
            Town of Columbus
            Post Office Box 308
            Columbus, NC 28722
      (8)   Registration fees will be paid to town.
      (9)   Fees paid for "failure to register a fire alarm" will be paid to
town. This fee will then be divided in the following manner:
 
Fee                        Paid To
$50 or one-half of the fee Will go to the Fire Department responsible for
                           primary coverage
$50 or one-half of the fee Will go to the Chief's Association Fund
 
      (10)   The town will be responsible for verifying fee assessed,
collection of payment, distribution of payment to the proper Fire Department
and collection action for unpaid fees and penalties.
      (11)   Any fee unpaid in excess of 90 days from the date fee is billed,
will be collected in the same manner as unpaid taxes (refer to §
93.07 above).
      (12)   It will be the responsibility of the Town Council and the Fire
Chief to make changes to this policy as needed.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Identification of signs
   
94.02   Crying our or creating noise
   
94.03   Posting on poles
   
94.04   Mutilation of signs
   
94.05   Marking or painting on sidewalks and streets
   
94.06   Posting on property of others
   
94.07   Outdoor gatherings and demonstrations
Distribution of Handbills
   
94.20   Definition
   
94.21   Exceptions to section provisions
   
94.22   Permit required
   
94.23   Persons acting for others
   
94.24   Promiscuous scattering
   
94.25   Placing in motor vehicles
Trees and Shrubs
   
94.40   Definition
   
94.41   Placement and cultivation
   
94.42   Trimming and maintenance
   
94.43   Rights of the town
   
94.44   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 IDENTIFICATION OF SIGNS.
   Every person posting or erecting any sign, posterboard or billboard shall
have printed on the same the name of the person in sufficient size to be
plainly visible and permanently affixed thereto.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 CRYING OUT OR CREATING NOISE.
   No person shall advertise any section of any kind or any event of any kind
by crying out the section or event, or by using therefor any megaphone, bell,
horn or other noise-making device on any street or sidewalk of the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 POSTING ON POLES.
   No person shall post, tack or nail any bills, posters, signs or
advertisements on any telegraph, telephone, electric light or other pole or any
shade or ornamental tree along any of the streets of the town; provided,
however, that this section shall not be construed to include street signs,
placed on the poles by the town for designating names of streets. Each sign,
poster, bill or advertisement posted in violation of this section shall
constitute a separate offense. No signs shall be posted in any town right-of-
way.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04 MUTILATION OF SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful to tear, deface, mutilate, take down or in any manner
destroy any advertisement, legal, public or private notice lawfully posted for
public view within the corporate limits, except that the owner of the property,
upon which the advertisement or notice has been posted without his or her
permission may remove the same.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.05 MARKING OR PAINTING ON SIDEWALKS AND STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to advertise or attempt to advertise by
marking or painting on any of the streets or sidewalks within the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 POSTING ON PROPERTY OF OTHERS.
   No person shall post any bills, signs or advertisements on any buildings,
fence or other property belonging to another without the consent of the owner
thereof. The consent shall be secured in writing, and the written consent shall
be exhibited by the person having the same to any police officer of the town on
demand.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07 OUTDOOR GATHERINGS AND DEMONSTRATIONS.
   (A)   The Town Manager is hereby authorized to permit certain types of
community events, gatherings, or demonstrations (hereinafter "event" or
"events") for which more than 25 people are expected to gather and which take
place upon the public streets, public sidewalks, and parks of the town.
   (B)   The events covered pursuant to this section do not include the use of
Veteran's Park or the requested closure of a road within the town, as the same
are separately governed by individual policies of the Town of Columbus.
   (C)   The sponsor of the event shall submit to the Town Manager a written
application for a permit at least 24 hours prior to the opening of the event
for which a permit is desired. The application shall state:
      (1)   The time, date and location of the event;
      (2)   The group, firm or individual by whom the event will be sponsored;
      (3)   The purpose of the festival or event; and
      (4)   The activities that will be included.
   (D)   In granting permits for community events, the Town Manager shall
consider the following:
      (1)   The time period during which the event will occur;
      (2)   The location of the event and whether the location inhibits the
safe flow of traffic in the town;
      (3)   Whether the activities would be in compliance with other applicable
laws; and
      (4)   Whether the designated place at the requested time has already been
permitted to a different applicant.
   (E)   The sponsor of the event shall provide all cleaning services necessary
to rid the property used of all debris and litter created as a result of the
event.
   (F)   The issuance of a permit to a sponsor shall authorize only that
sponsor and participants specifically authorized by the sponsor to participate
in that event.
(Ord. 2020-03, passed 8-20-2020)
DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS
§ 94.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTE. The scattering, throwing, handing out or any other means of
dispensing circulars, handbills or other printed matter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-41)
§ 94.21 EXCEPTIONS TO SECTION PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this section shall in no way affect the usual and
customary sales and delivery of newspapers and periodicals, and shall not
prevent the distribution of advertising matter in business buildings or private
residences.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-42)
§ 94.22 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or cause to be distributed
any circulars, handbills or other written or printed matter for advertising
purposes upon the streets or sidewalks of the town without having first
obtained a permit from the Town Clerk or designee.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-43) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 PERSONS ACTING FOR OTHERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or cause to be distributed
any circulars, handbills or other written or printed matter for advertising
purposes on behalf of any other person unless the other person shall have first
obtained a permit.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-44) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.24 PROMISCUOUS SCATTERING.
   (A)   No person shall promiscuously distribute handbills or advertisements
of any kind by placing or throwing the same on any street or lot or otherwise.
   (B)   The handbills or advertisements shall be enclosed in an envelope, or
clipped, and placed under, or in, the door of each house where the advertising
matter is left.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.25 PLACING IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall distribute advertising or printed matter of any kind by
placing the same in or on a motor vehicle that is parked on any street or in
any other public place.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
TREES AND SHRUBS
§ 94.40 DEFINITION.
   The following terms shall apply to this subchapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land upon which the town has the right to construct a
street, sidewalk, bicycle path, use for public utilities, landscape with plants
or to carry out any other public purpose.
   CLEAR RECOVERY ZONE. The area between the edge of pavement and a parallel
line located 18 inches from the edge of the pavement.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 94.41 PLACEMENT AND CULTIVATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Plant or cultivate any tree, shrubbery, hedge or other plants in the
parking area of any street, or on land adjacent to any sidewalk or street
parking area unless the same are trimmed and maintained to prevent obstruction
of the passage of vehicles and pedestrians over and along the roadway of any
street, avenue or sidewalk of the town, as the case may be.
   (B)   Plant any tree, shrubbery, hedge or other plants within a sight
triangle and by so doing create a sight obstruction so as to impede vision
within the sight triangle between a height of three feet and eight feet above
the center line grades of the intersecting streets and/or drives. For purposes
of this subchapter, a sight triangle shall be the triangular area, at the
intersection of any street with another street, driveway or accessway, formed
by measuring from the point of intersection of the edge of street, drive or
accessway a distance of 15 feet along each said street, drive or accessway line
and connecting the points so established to form a triangle on the area
adjacent to the intersection.
   (C)   Plant any tree within ten feet of any fire hydrant, water meter or
sewer manhole
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 94.42 TRIMMING AND MAINTENANCE.
   Trees and shrubs standing in or upon any lot or land adjacent to any town-
owned or town-controlled property, or town rights-of-way and having branches,
limbs, trunks, or other parts projecting into the public street or place shall
be kept trimmed by the owner of the property on which such trees and shrubs
originate as follows:
   (A)   So that there is a clear space under the tree that is 14 feet above
the street and clear recovery zone surface.
   (B)   So that there is a clear space under the tree that is eight feet above
the sidewalk surface or such unpaved right of way area.
   (C)   So that branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp
eight feet above the surface of the street right-of-way.
   (D)   So that such branches shall not obstruct the view of any street
intersection in order to ensure a clear space of eight feet above the surface
of the street right-of-way.
   (E)   Remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed
limbs which constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 94.43 RIGHTS OF THE TOWN.
   The town has the rights afforded to it by law to maintain the streets,
sidewalks and other public areas and the municipal utilities as follows:
   (A)   Plant, trim, spray, preserve and remove trees, plants and shrubs
within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public
grounds, as may be necessary to insure safety when servicing city utilities or
to preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds;
   (B)   Trim any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with
visibility of any traffic control device or sign, or visibility of an
intersection, such trimming to be confined to the area immediately above the
right-of-way;
   (C)   Trim any tree or shrub on private property to the extent that such
tree or shrub comes within eighteen inches of the edge of a road, provided that
the town shall not, pursuant to the authority under division (A), trim tree
limbs which are more than fourteen feet above the road or the first eighteen
inches next to the road unless there are public safety reasons for doing so.
   (D)   Remove, or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in unsafe condition or is injurious to sewers, electric power lines,
gas lines, water lines or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest, or is otherwise diseased.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 11-15-2018)
§ 94.44 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event the owner shall fail to comply with the requirements of this
subchapter, the town shall serve written notice upon the owner by regular
first-class mail specifying the violation and advising the owner that they have
30 days to correct the violation. If the owner has not corrected the violation
within such time, the town may proceed to have the designated tree, tree
material or shrub treated or removed. The cost thereof shall be paid by the
owner or shall be assessed and charged against the lot or parcel of ground on
which the tree, tree material or shrub is located. Such cost shall be certified
to the County Clerk to he extended on the tax roll against said lot or parcel
of ground as provided by law.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 11-15-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   [RESERVED]
         
111.   MASSAGE BUSINESSES
         
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
         
113.   STREET VENDING PERMITS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS
         
114.   TATTOO PARLORS
         
115.   POOL ROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
         
116.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
         
117.   GAME ROOMS AND THE LIKE
         
118.   MINORITY BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 111: MASSAGE BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Purpose of chapter
   
111.03   Exemption from provisions of chapter
   
111.04   Massage of private parts for hire
   
111.05   Patronage of massage business by minor; employment of minors
   
111.06   License required
   
111.07   Application
   
111.08   Application fees
   
111.09   Investigation; issuance
   
111.10   Records of licensee
   
111.11   Display of certificate of licensure
   
111.12   Revocation or suspension; hearings
   
111.13   Appeals
   
111.14   Transfer
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS OR PROFESSION OF MASSAGE. The massage of any person for a fee or
for other consideration.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Police Chief for the town or his or her designee.
   FINANCE DIRECTOR. The Director of Finance for the town or his or her
designee.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who is engaged in the business or profession
of massage therapy, and who receives compensation for his or her services.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. The manipulation of soft tissue for therapeutic purposes,
which term may include, but shall not be limited to, effleurage, petrissage,
tapotement, compression, vibration, friction, nerve strokes and other Swedish
movements, either by hand or with mechanical or electrical apparatus for the
purpose of body massage. The term may also include the use of oil, salt glows,
hot and cold packs and other recognized forms of massage therapy.
   MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment or business wherein massage
is practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, massage studios, massage parlors or similar establishments by
whatever name designated. A massage school is a MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENT
only if some portion of the premises is used for the business or profession of
massage.
   MASSAGE THERAPY SCHOOL. Any educational facility for massage which meets
minimum standards for training and curriculum as determined by the state
division of proprietary school services, and is licensed, or exempted from
licensure, by the State Board of Community Colleges.
   ON-SITE/CHAIR MASSAGE. Massage offered at a client's business or workplace
where the client is fully clothed.
   PRIVATE PARTS. The penis, scrotum, mons veneris, vulva or vaginal area.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-161)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE OF CHAPTER.
   The therapeutic application of massage is one of the oldest healing arts
known to humankind, a practice which can provide many benefits to an
individual's state of health and well-being. In the interest of public health,
safety, welfare and morals, and to protect the public from unqualified
practitioners and unethical businesses, the following privilege license
provisions and regulations are hereby adopted.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-162)
§ 111.03 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The practice of massage therapy shall not include and is distinct from
the practice of medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy
or podiatry.
   (B)   Requirements of this chapter shall have no application to and effect
upon the following:
      (1)   Medical doctors, chiropractors, osteopaths, physical therapists or
podiatrists duly licensed to practice in this state;
      (2)   Registered or licensed practical nurses governed by the State
Nursing Practices Act, being G.S. §§ 90-171.19 et seq.;
      (3)   Employees of nursing homes and hospitals which are duly licensed by
the state;
      (4)   Athletic directors or trainers who are affiliated with an
accredited educational institution or professional sports team, and whose work
is limited to athletic team members; or
      (5)   Licensed cosmetologists, barbers or beauty culturists who do not
practice, or hold themselves out to practice, massage therapy other than what
is customarily provided in such establishments, solely for the purpose of
beautification.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-163)
§ 111.04 MASSAGE OF PRIVATE PARTS FOR HIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to massage or to offer to massage the
private parts of another for hire. Violation of this provision shall be a Class
3 misdemeanor punishable by a $500 fine pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-164; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 111.05 PATRONAGE OF MASSAGE BUSINESSES BY MINOR; EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   (A)   No massage therapist or massage therapy establishment shall massage or
treat any person under the age of 18 years or permit or condone the treatment,
except when the parent or legal guardian of the person under 18 accompanies the
person under the age of 18 during the massage treatment or upon written order
of a licensed physician, osteopath, chiropractor, podiatrist or registered
physical therapist, such order being dated and in the possession of the person
giving the massage or treatment.
   (B)   No person licensed pursuant to this chapter shall employ any person
under the age of 18 years in the operation of the massage business.
   (C)   Violation of this provision shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable
by a $500 fine pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-165; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 111.06 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, partnership, corporation or association shall operate as a
massage therapist or a massage therapy establishment as defined in §
111.01 above without holding a valid town privilege license as provided in this
section.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-191) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for the privilege license to operate as a massage
therapist or a massage therapy establishment shall be upon a form supplied by
the Town Clerk and filed with the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall be made under oath and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Massage therapist:
         (a)   The name, date of birth and residence address of the applicant;
         (b)   A complete statement of the previous businesses or occupations
of the applicant for the five years immediately preceding the date of the
application;
         (c)   The date and place of applicant's birth and the residence
address of the applicant for the three years immediately preceding the date of
the application;
         (d)   A complete statement of all convictions of the applicant for any
felonies, or for violation of any law or ordinance of any governmental unit
concerning or related to the business or profession of massage therapy, or for
any offense involving sexual misconduct, whether in this town or any other,
including, without limitation, prostitution and offenses against public
morality and decency;
         (e)   A complete statement of any revocation of any license granted by
any governmental unit to the applicant to engage in the business or profession
of massage therapy; and
         (f)   Demonstration of competence by means of one of the following:
            1.   Attachment of a certificate of graduation from a massage
therapy school which is either licensed by the State Board of Community
Colleges or exempted from licensure;
            2.   Attachment of a certificate of graduation from a school or
institute of massage therapy which offers a minimum curriculum of 500 hours of
classroom instruction, and is licensed by an equivalent licensing authority of
another state; or
            3.   Attachment of a certificate of successful examination from the
National Certification Board for Therapeutic Massage (NCBTM).
      (2)   Massage therapy establishments:
         (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, age and residence
address of the person; if the applicant is a partnership, corporation or
association, the name and residence address of all principals, directors and
officers of the partnership, corporation or association, including the name and
residence address of any persons having a legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the proposed massage therapy establishment;
         (b)   The address of the premises where the proposed massage therapy
establishment shall be located;
         (c)   A complete statement of all convictions of any person whose name
is required to be given in division (B)(2)(a) above for any offense as set out
in division (B)(1)(e) above;
         (d)   A complete statement of any revocation, by any governmental
unit, of any license to operate a massage therapy establishment or to engage in
the business or profession of massage therapy held by any person whose name is
required to be given in division (B)(2)(a) above; and
         (e)   The name and address of any other establishment or business
owned or operated by any person whose name is required to be given in division
(B)(2)(a) above, wherein the business or profession of massage is practiced.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-192)
§ 111.08 APPLICATION FEES.
   (A)   The town shall charge an administrative fee as determined by Town
Clerk to cover expenses incidental to processing the application. The fee shall
be due and payable at the time of filing the application.
   (B)   There shall be an application fee for a massage therapist and a
separate application fee for a massage therapy establishment.
   (C)   This does not relieve the applicant from any associated zoning and
building permit fees.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-193)
§ 111.09 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon payment of the application fee as set forth in §
111.08 and upon submission of all of the information required by the
application under this division, the Town Clerk shall transmit a copy of the
application to the Chief of Police for an investigative report, to the Zoning
Administrator to determine compliance with all zoning and building regulations
and ordinances, and to the Fire Department to determine compliance with any law
relating to fire protection.
      (2)   The Chief of Police, the Zoning Administrator and the Fire
Department shall, within a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days, report the
results of their examinations to the Finance Director.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the reports required by this section, the Town Clerk
shall determine whether the applicant meets the requirements of this section.
The Finance Director shall grant a license to operate as a massage therapist or
a massage therapy establishment upon making each of the following
determinations:
      (1)   The application contains no misstatement of fact;
      (2)   The applicant, and any person having legal or beneficial ownership
interest in the proposed establishment, is 18 years of age or older and has not
been convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct or any offenses against
public morality and decency;
      (3)   The proposed establishment conforms to all requirements of
applicable zoning, building and fire prevention codes; and
      (4)   The applicant, or any principal, director or officer of the
applicant, or any person having a legal or beneficial ownership interest in the
proposed establishment, has not, during the three-year period preceding the
application, suffered a revocation of any license granted by any government
unit for the purpose of engaging in the business or profession of massage
therapy, or operating a massage therapy establishment, as defined by the
governing unit.
   (C)   No massage therapist or massage therapy establishment shall allow,
permit or condone any massage or treatment of any person before 8:00 a.m. or
after 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-194) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.10 RECORDS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all persons granted a license under this
chapter to maintain correct and accurate records of the names and addresses of
the persons receiving massages at the establishment, the type of massages
administered and the name of the person of the establishment administering the
massage.
   (B)   The records shall be subject to inspection at any reasonable time by
the Chief of Police.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-195)
§ 111.11 DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF LICENSURE.
   (A)   Every massage therapist shall at all times display in his or her work
area the privilege license required by this chapter for the practice of massage
therapy; however, a massage therapist practicing at a site other than his or
her regular work area may comply with this requirement by having in his or her
possession a picture identification containing the privilege license
information.
   (B)   Every operator of a massage therapy establishment shall prominently
display the privilege license required by this chapter at the massage therapy
establishment.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-196)
§ 111.12 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION; HEARINGS.
   (A)   The license of a massage therapy establishment issued pursuant to this
chapter may be revoked or suspended by the Chief of Police as follows.
      (1)   The following shall subject the licensee to revocation:
         (a)   The licensee, or any agent of the licensee, employs or permits
any individual to perform massage therapy on the premises of the licensee's
massage therapy establishment or business when the individual does not hold a
current valid license to practice massage therapy;
         (b)   The licensee, or the legal or beneficial owner of any interest
in the licensee, is convicted of any crime involving sexual misconduct,
including, but not limited to, those set out in §
111.07 above;
         (c)   The licensee is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading or
deceptive advertising, including the use of the term "massage therapy" or
"massage" to describe, promote or advertise any type of business activity or
service offered which is expressly not a massage as defined in §
111.01, or has otherwise fraudulently engaged in the business or profession of
massage therapy; or
         (d)   The licensee violates §
111.05 above.
      (2)   The following shall subject the licensee to suspension:
         (a)   The licensee or any employee of the licensee violates any
provision of this chapter other than §
111.05 above which is cause for revocation;
         (b)   Any employee of the licensee is convicted of any crime involving
sexual misconduct, including, but not limited to, those set out in §
111.07; or
         (c)   The licensee violates any zoning, building or fire prevention
ordinance.
   (B)   The license of a massage therapist issued pursuant to this section may
be revoked or suspended by the Chief of Police as follows:
      (1)   The following shall subject the licensee to revocation:
         (a)   The licensee is guilty of fraudulent, false, misleading or
deceptive advertising, including the use of the term "massage therapy" or
"massage" to describe, promote or advertise any type of business activity or
service offered which is expressly not massage therapy as defined in §
111.01, or has otherwise fraudulently engaged in practicing massage therapy;
         (b)   The licensee has been convicted of a crime involving sexual
misconduct, including those set out in §
111.07;
         (c)   The licensee has fraudulently obtained a license pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter;
         (d)   The licensee has allowed the use of his or her license by an
unlicensed person; or
         (e)   The licensee has violated §
111.05.
      (2)   The following shall subject the licensee to suspension:
         (a)   The licensee or any employee of the licensee violates any
provision of this chapter other than §
111.05 which is cause for revocation; or
         (b)   The licensee is convicted of a violation of the State Controlled
Substances Law.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may, upon notice and an opportunity to be heard,
revoke or suspend a license issued pursuant to this chapter. Notice of a
hearing shall be given in writing and served at least ten days prior to the
date of the hearing. The notice shall state the grounds of the complaint
against the license holder and shall designate the time and place where the
hearing will be held.
   (D)   The notice of the hearing may be served by hand delivery, by first
class mail, or by leaving the notice at the place of business or residence of
the license holder in the custody of a person of suitable age and discretion.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-197)
§ 111.13 APPEALS.
   (A)   Board created; members; duties. There is hereby created a Massage
Therapy Appeals Board, which by default is the Town Council. No representative
of the town shall be permitted to sit on the Board if that person had any
involvement in the initial determination. The Board shall hear and determine
appeals from determinations made by the Chief of Police or the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Schedule of hearing. Upon denial, revocation, suspension or
interpretation made by the Chief of Police or the Town Clerk, the applicant may
appeal the determination by filing a written appeal within ten days of the
decision. Upon timely receipt of an appeal, the Town Clerk shall schedule a
hearing within 30 days of the filing of the appeal.
   (C)   Decision of Board. The Board shall render a final decision within 30
days of the hearing. An appeal from the Board may be taken to the County
Superior Court for a writ of certiorari within ten days of receipt of the
Board's decision.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-198)
§ 111.14 TRANSFER.
   (A)   Once issued, no privilege license to operate as a massage therapist or
for the operation of a massage therapy establishment may be transferred from
one person, corporation, name or location to another.
   (B)   No person, corporation, partnership or association licensed to operate
as a massage therapist or a massage therapy establishment under the provisions
of this chapter shall permit any person to perform massage therapy upon the
premises operated by the licensee or in any other location under his or her or
its direction unless the person performing the massage therapy is licensed
under this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-200) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable in accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-166)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
112.01   Prohibited activities; permit required
   
112.02   Application for permit
   
112.03   Issuance or denial of permit
   
112.04   Appeal from denial of permit
   
112.05   Duration of permit
   
112.06   Fee for permit
   
112.07   Permit not transferable
   
112.08   Revocation of permit; appeal from revocation
   
112.09   Sale of merchandise on streets or sidewalks
   
112.10   Violation a misdemeanor; punishment
§ 112.01 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to go in or upon, or permit his or her
representatives to go in or upon, any private residential premises in the town
as solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant or transient vendor of
merchandise, not having been requested or invited to do so by the occupant of
the private residence or premises, or not having procured the occupant's
permission so to do, for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of
goods, wares, magazines or other periodicals or merchandise, or for the purpose
of distributing, disposing of, peddling or hawking the same, except that
nonprofit organizations may undertake the foregoing activities after first
obtaining a permit as provided in this chapter. Violation of this provision
shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a $50 fine pursuant to G.S. § 14-
4.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 112.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any nonprofit organization desiring to engage in the business or
practices referred to in §
112.01 above shall file with the Town Clerk an application for a permit to do
so. The application shall be in writing, under oath, and shall show the
organization's name and address, the nature of the nonprofit organization's
business, the organization's basis for claiming nonprofit status, and the
applicant-representative's name, current address and telephone number. The
application shall also specify in detail the goods, wares, periodicals,
magazines or other merchandise to be offered for sale, and the time period
during which such sales shall occur.
   (B)   The applicant shall give the Town Clerk any requested information that
may be of assistance to him or her in passing upon the qualifications of the
applicant.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 112.03 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   If, upon investigation reasonably made, the Town Clerk ascertains and
determines that the applicant for a permit required by this chapter proposes to
engage in a lawful commercial or professional enterprise during hours that will
not unduly disturb the occupants of residences, the Town Clerk shall issue to
him or her a permit to engage in the business, which permit shall contain
substantially the information set forth in his or her application.
   (B)   The permit shall be carried at all times by the person to whom it has
been issued, when soliciting or canvassing in the town, and shall be exhibited
by him or her whenever required to do so by a law enforcement officer or any
person solicited. If the Town Clerk shall, upon investigation, determine that
the applicant does not propose to engage in a lawful commercial or professional
enterprise during hours reasonably convenient for the occupants of residences,
he or she shall refuse to issue the permit.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 112.04 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   Upon the refusal of the Town Clerk to grant a permit under this chapter, the
applicant may within ten days thereinafter appeal to the Town Council. If the
Council shall be satisfied that the applicant and his or her proposed business
and hours of work meet the requirements set forth in this chapter, it shall
direct the Town Clerk to issue the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be
refused.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 112.05 DURATION OF PERMIT.
   The Town Clerk shall determine from the application, and from the facts as
may be developed in connection with the application, the period for which a
permit under this chapter shall be approved and granted; provided, that the
period shall in no case exceed 12 calendar months.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 112.06 FEE FOR PERMIT.
   No permit fees shall be charged to nonprofit organizations under this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 112.07 PERMIT NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit approved and issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
transferable.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 112.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; APPEAL FROM REVOCATION.
   (A)   If, after the issuance of a permit pursuant to this chapter, it should
appear that the facts set forth in the permittee’s application are untrue, or
if the permittee engages in business other than as set forth in the permit, or
fails to utilize that permit in good faith and for the purpose issued, the
permit shall be revoked by the Town Clerk.
   (B)   The revocation shall be in writing and delivered to the permittee in
person, or mailed to the permittee by certified mail to the address shown in
permittee’s application. The revocation shall become effective at the time
delivered or, if mailed with sufficient postage affixed thereto, at the date
mailed. The revocation may, within ten days thereafter, be appealed by the
permittee to the Town Council members.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 112.09 SALE OF MERCHANDISE ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall sell, barter, trade or auction merchandise of any
description on any street or sidewalk except in accordance with the town code
of ordinances. (See Chapter 113 for sales during special events; see Chapter
154 for temporary sales.)
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 112.10 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR; PUNISHMENT.
   If any person shall violate this chapter, he or she shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined or imprisoned as set forth in G.S. § 14-4. Any
violators shall also be subject to civil penalties as outlined in this code of
ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
CHAPTER 113: STREET VENDING PERMITS FOR SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Required
   
113.04   Applications
   
113.05   Fee
   
113.06   Prohibited conduct
   
113.07   Denial, suspension or revocation
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   It is found and declared that the permitting of street vending for special
events promotes the public interest in that:
   (A)   The town is a regional center for business, government, finance and
tourism;
   (B)   From time to time, the town authorizes special events for the purpose
of encouraging tourism and civic pride; and
   (C)   The permitting of street vending for these special events contributes
to furthering an attractive pedestrian environment and, thus, contributes to
the general welfare of the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-281; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MERCHANDISE. Fresh cut flowers, balloons and any other wares, and shall
include entertainment.
   SPECIAL EVENTS. All street fairs, festivals, carnivals, parades, marches,
rallies, demonstrations, and other activities or public events that require the
temporary closing or obstruction of, or that substantially hinder or prevent
the normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic on, all or a portion of any
town- or county-owned property, street or other public right-of-way within the
town.
   STREET VENDOR. A person who hawks, peddles, sells or offers food or
merchandise.
   VENDING STAND. A mobile cart, wagon, vehicle or stand used or intended to be
used for displaying, transporting or storing articles offered for sale by a
vendor.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-282; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 113.03 REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or to offer for sale
during, or within the two hours immediately before or after, any special event
in the town, any food, beverage or merchandise, on foot or from any vending
stand, on any right-of-way, street, sidewalk or public property within the
town, without first obtaining a permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Any permit issued under this chapter shall be temporary in nature and
applicable for one special event. The permit shall be effective only for the
duration of the special event specified.
   (C)   Any violation of this provision shall be a civil violation enforceable
by the Town Manager, and incur a fine of $250 per day.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-284; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011; Am. Ord. passed
3-20-2025)
§ 113.04 APPLICATIONS.
   The permit required by § 113.03 above shall be issued only after payment of
the fee required by §
113.05 below, and completion of an application providing the following
information:
   (A)   The name, home and business address of the applicant, and the name and
address of the owner of the vending business, if other than the applicant;
   (B)   The special event for which the vendor seeks the permit and the name
of the entity sponsoring the special event;
   (C)   A description of the type of food, beverage or merchandise to be sold;
   (D)   The applicant's state sales tax number or, if the applicant is a
charitable organization, its tax exempt number; and
   (E)   A copy of any approval required by the County Health Department
pursuant to "Rules Governing the Sanitation of Restaurants and Other
Foodhandling Establishments," 10 N.C.A.C., Ch. 10, Subchapter 10A.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-285; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 113.05 FEE.
   Fees are set by Town Council and are found in the town fee schedule.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-286; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 113.06 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a street vendor to:
      (1)   Violate any federal, state, county or town law or regulation that
pertains to food, beverages or the selling thereof, or that pertains to the
operation of the vendor’s business in the town;
      (2)   Fail to permit any lawfully requested inspection by health
officials or to comply with any lawful request of a police officer;
      (3)   Fail to carry and display at all times of operation the permit
issued under this chapter;
      (4)   Have a vending stand that is not in compliance with the review
regulations or any additional special restrictions or conditions stated in the
permit;
      (5)   Vend without insurance if such is a condition of the vendor’s
permit;
      (6)   Sell food or beverages for immediate consumption, unless the vendor
has available for public use a litter receptacle not more than ten feet distant
from the vendor’s stand;
      (7)   Leave his or her designated location without first picking up,
removing and disposing of all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by the
vendor;
      (8)   Allow any item relating to the operation of the vending business to
be placed anywhere other than in, on or under the vending stand;
      (9)   Offer to sell any goods other than those permitted by the permit;
      (10)   Sound or permit the sounding of any device which produces a loud
and raucous noise, or engage in any hawking or harassment for the purpose of
attracting the attention of the public to the vending stand;
      (11)   Have any advertising, except the posting of prices, the name of
the products, and the name of the vendor; or
      (12)   Solicit or conduct business with persons in motor vehicles.
   (B)   Any violation of this provision shall be a civil violation enforceable
by the Town Manager, and incur a fine of $250 per day.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-287; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011; Am. Ord. passed
3-20-2025)
§ 113.07 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any vendor’s permit may be denied, suspended or revoked by the town for
fraud or misrepresentation in the application for the permit or in the conduct
of the business, for conduct of this business in such a manner as to create a
public nuisance or constitute a danger to the public health, safety, welfare or
morals, or for conduct contrary to the provisions of this chapter. Any vendor
who has had his or her permit denied, suspended or revoked may, within 15 days
of the date of denial, suspension or revocation, appeal the decision to the
Town Manager.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-288; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished in accordance with
applicable statutes. Any violator is also subject to a civil penalty.
(Ord. passed - -, § 14-283; Am. Ord. 2011-5, passed 8-18-2011)
CHAPTER 114: TATTOO PARLORS
Section
   
114.01   General provisions
§ 114.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Tattoo parlors will only be allowed in the Highway Commercial
District.
   (B)   Tattoo parlors will be allowed in the Highway Commercial District as a
conditional use only.
   (C)   The procedures outlined in §§
154.080 through
154.083 shall be allowed when reviewing permits for tattoo parlors.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 115: POOL ROOMS AND BOWLING ALLEYS
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Application for license
   
115.03   When license refused
   
115.04   Form and content of license
   
115.05   Certain prohibitions to be observed by licensee and employees
   
115.06   Rules for operation
   
115.07   Licensee responsible
   
115.08   Revocation of licenses
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall maintain or operate any pool or billiard table, bowling
alley or other table or alley for any game or play for which a charge is made,
either directly or indirectly, unless he or she shall first have secured a
license from the Town Council to do so. The license shall expire on June 30
each year, and shall not be transferable.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-61) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for a license under this chapter shall be made upon forms
provided by the Town Clerk, and shall contain all information necessary for the
Town Council to act intelligently upon the applications.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-62)
§ 115.03 WHEN LICENSE REFUSED.
   The Town Council shall not issue a license to any person:
   (A)   Who has been convicted of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or
narcotic drugs;
   (B)   Who is of immoral character; or
   (C)   Who is a habitual user of intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-63)
§ 115.04 FORM AND CONTENT OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall specify the premises for
which it is issued, the number of tables or alleys to be operated thereunder,
the name of the owner or operator, and the dates upon which the license begins
and shall expire. The license shall be posted in a prominent place on the
premises at all times.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-64)
§ 115.05 CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS TO BE OBSERVED BY LICENSEE AND EMPLOYEES.
   Licensees under this chapter shall not, and neither shall their employees:
   (A)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time;
nor the sale or use of any racing, football or other parlay cards or gambling
boards;
   (B)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly; or permit
any profane, obscene or indecent language thereon;
   (C)   Suffer or permit any intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs to be sold
or kept or consumed on the licensed premises;
   (D)   Suffer or permit any person under age of 16 years to enter or remain
on the licensed premises, unless that person be accompanied by his or her
parent or guardian;
   (E)   Employ in carrying on the business any person who has been convicted
of unlawfully selling intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs; or
   (F)   Suffer or permit any keeley board, keno board or any other like board
or device to be attached to or placed upon any tables.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-65)
§ 115.06 RULES FOR OPERATION.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators or pool rooms within
the town.
   (A)   All pool rooms shall close at 1:00 a.m. each morning, Monday through
Friday and 12:00 midnight on Saturdays and no person other than the owner,
operator or employees shall be permitted on the premises from that hour until
7:00 a.m. the following morning.
   (B)   No play on any table shall be allowed during the times when pool rooms
are required by this chapter to remain closed.
   (C)   All pool rooms shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building, and plate glass windows shall be in those parts of the building
facing any street so that a clear view inside may be had from the street.
   (D)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where pool is played and the rear
wall of the room. A clear view of the interior from the entrance to the rear of
the room must be maintained at all times.
   (E)   No partitions forming rooms, stalls or other enclosures where the
public congregates shall be permitted. Provided, this shall not be construed so
as to prohibit the maintenance of closets used exclusively for storage
purposes, or of toilets.
   (F)   There shall not be permitted or maintained any open or secret
connections through doors, windows, trap doors, hidden doors, panels, stairways
or other devices with any place where gambling is conducted or where persons
meet or congregate for immoral purposes.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE.
   The acts and conduct of the agents and employees of the licensee in the
conduct of the business shall be deemed to be the acts and conduct of the
licensee.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-67)
§ 115.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   A second conviction of a licensee, or his or her agent or employee, for any
violation of any provision of this chapter shall by operation of law constitute
an automatic revocation of the license of the licensee. In addition, the Town
Council may at any time, for cause, and after a hearing, of which the licensee
shall be given reasonable notice as the Town Council may direct, revoke any
license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -, § 4-68)
CHAPTER 116: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   General provisions
§ 116.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council finds that adult establishments produce effects,
which are undesirable in the vicinity of residential areas and schools.
Increased criminal activity has been documented around adult establishments.
Understanding that the establishments are legal within federal and state laws,
the following section is designed to combat the secondary effects of adult
establishments in certain areas.
   (B)   It is not the intent of this section to conflict with state laws
regulating pornographic materials and activities; but rather to regulate the
locations of adult establishments whose materials or activities are legal.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly keep, maintain or operate an adult
bookstore, adult movie massage parlor, or topless dancing establishment with
the following areas:
      (1)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet of a church or any
establishment with an on premise ABC license;
      (2)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet of any public or private
secondary or elementary school, child care or nursery school;
      (3)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet of any public or private
secondary or elementary school, child care or nursery school;
      (4)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet of a public park,
residence, residentially zoned district, nursing home; and
      (5)   Within a minimum distance of 1,000 feet from a nursing home or
primary highway.
   (D)   All measurements shall be taken by drawing straight lines from the
nearest point of the line where the proposed adult establishment is to be
located to the nearest point of the lot line or boundary of the closet church,
establishment with an on-premise ABC license, public or private secondary or
elementary school, child care, nursery school, public park, residentially zoned
district, nursing home or primary highway.
(Ord. passed 4-15-2003)
CHAPTER 117: GAME ROOMS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Maintenance; inspection of buildings
   
117.03   Sight obstructions
   
117.04   Hours of operation
   
117.05   Gambling
   
117.06   Disorderly conduct
   
117.07   Display of amusement devices; gambling devices prohibited
   
117.08   Applicability of provisions; private clubs
   
117.09   Other business establishments
   
117.10   License required for establishments
   
117.11   License required for devices
   
117.12   Non-coin-operated devices; license
   
117.13   Issuance; separate license required for each device
   
117.14   Revocation
   
117.15   Fees
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT CENTER. Any room or place open to and available to the general
public where 15 or more mechanical amusement devices and/or non-coin-operated
amusement devices are kept, and where any person can play a game on a
mechanical or amusement device by the insertion of a coin, slug or token, or by
the payment of a fee or charge, or by the purchase, possession or presentation
of a ticket or token.
   BILLIARD HALL or POOL ROOM. Any room or place open to and available to the
general public where one or more billiard tables or pool tables of any design
or size and less than 15 mechanical amusement devices and/or non-coin-operated
amusement devices are kept, and where any person can play a game on a
mechanical or amusement device, or the game of billiards or pool, or any
variation thereof, by the insertion of a coin, slug or token, or by the payment
of a fee or charge, or by the purchase, possession or presentation of a ticket
or token.
   DISCOTHEQUE and/or PUBLIC DANCE HALL. Any room or place open to, and
available to, the general public where facilities are maintained, and in, upon
and as a result of admission thereto, a person may engage in the amusement of
dancing, of any nature or kind, version or variation thereof, and whether
accompanied by music manually produced by any combination of instruments
constituting a band, orchestra or other musical assemblage, or music produced
by a mechanical amusement device, or non-coin-operated amusement device, with
or without, the payment of a fee, stipend, token, coin or other payment or
charge, or not accompanied by music of any kind.
   DISORDERLY CONDUCT. Those acts defined in G.S. § 14-288.4 or any successor
in effect from time to time.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES. Any machine which, upon the insertion of a
coin, trade-token or slug, operates or may be operated as a game or contest of
skill or amusement of any kind or description, and which contains no automatic
payoff device for the return of money or trade-token or slug, or which makes no
provision whatever for the return of money to the player. A MECHANICAL
AMUSEMENT DEVICE is further defined as any machine, apparatus or contrivance
which is used or which may be used as a game of skill and amusement wherein or
whereby the player initiates, employs or directs any force generated by the
machine. The term MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE is also hereby defined to be, and
shall include, each machine vending recorded music or a period of radio or
television entertainment in return for the insertion or deposit therein of a
coin or trade-tokens or slugs.
   NON-COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any device operated in a manner of a
slot machine, but without a slot for the insertion of coins to operate the
machine and without a receptacle in the machine for making payment by reason of
certain arrangements on the wheels on the machine.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-1)
§ 117.02 MAINTENANCE; INSPECTION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All pool rooms, billiard halls, discotheques and/or dance halls and
amusement centers in the town shall be kept at all times in a clean, neat,
healthful and sanitary condition, and the pool rooms, billiard halls or
amusement centers, all stairways, outer passages, and all rooms connected
therewith shall be kept open and well lighted and shall be subject to
inspection at any time by any member of the police force, Health Officer, Fire
Inspector or the Code Enforcement Officer, and free access shall be granted to
any of the aforementioned officers at any and all times by the licensee, and it
shall be the duty of each of the aforementioned officers to make frequent
inspections of all pool rooms, billiard halls, discotheques and/or public dance
halls and amusement centers in the town.
   (B)   All adjacent or related tracts, lots and other areas used to
accommodate the parking of vehicles used or owned by patrons of places of
amusement shall be adequately and appropriately illuminated or lighted.
   (C)   Each such lot or tract shall have a sign posted thereon which shall
advise in appropriate terminology that loitering, congregating and using the
area for any other use than parking is not permitted.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-36) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03 SIGHT OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No partition, screen or any other device which will obstruct the full vision
from the outside of any pool room, billiard hall, discotheque and/or dance hall
or amusement center within the town shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-37) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, manager or employee of any
billiard hall or pool room within the town limits to keep the same open or to
operate the same except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m.
   (B)   No person shall play billiards or pool, or any variation thereof, on
any size or design of table in any billiard hall, pool room, discotheque and/or
public dance hall or amusement center after 1:00 a.m. and until 7:00 a.m.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, manager or employee of any
amusement center or discotheque and/or public dance hall to keep the same open
or to operate the same except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 2:30 a.m.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-38) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, manager or employee of any pool room,
billiard hall, discotheque and/or dance hall or amusement center within the
town to allow or permit any form of gambling to be carried on or engaged in
within the premises thereof.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-39) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.06 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, manager or employee of any pool room,
billiard hall, discotheque and/or dance hall or amusement center within the
town to allow or permit any form of disorderly conduct to be carried on or
engaged in within the premises thereof.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-40) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.07 DISPLAY OF AMUSEMENT DEVICES; GAMBLING DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   Any device shall at all times be kept and placed in plain view of any person
who may frequent or be in any place of business where the devices are kept or
used. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize, permit or
license any gambling device of any nature whatsoever.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-41)
§ 117.08 APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS; PRIVATE CLUBS.
   This chapter shall have no application to any private club or organization
of a nationwide stature or character, or which operates pursuant to a corporate
charter or license (profit or nonprofit) issued by the state, or the Congress
of the United States, and to whose regularly maintained premises admittance is
dependent upon preexisting membership in the organization, club, group or
society, and to which admittance is denied to the general public.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-42)
§ 117.09 OTHER BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   This chapter shall have full application to any premises, facilities, rooms,
areas, storerooms, stores, showrooms or other premises owned, occupied by,
leased or otherwise used by any person, upon which, and in which, there are
maintained 14 or less mechanical amusement devices and/or non-coin-operated
amusement devices.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-43)
§ 117.10 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   No pool room, billiard hall, discotheque and/or dance hall or amusement
center shall be operated within the town unless the same shall have been first
duly licensed, and the requisite tax paid to the Town Clerk on all amusement
devices, billiard tables, pool tables or other mechanical amusement devices
(coin- or non-coin-operated types) pursuant to the provisions of G.S. § 160A-
211.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-61) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.11 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR DEVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, operate or maintain any
mechanical amusement device without having first obtained a license therefor.
Applications shall be made to the Town Clerk. The fee for the license shall be
$10 per year, or any portion of a year, for each machine or device so licensed.
The license period shall be the same as the fiscal year of the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-62) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.12 NON-COIN-OPERATED DEVICES; LICENSE.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or expose for public use any non-coin-
operated amusement device, commonly referred to as a "slotless slot machine"
without having first obtained a license therefor. The annual fee for the
license shall be the sum of $10 for each such device.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-63) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.13 ISSUANCE; SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH DEVICE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued except to a person of good character,
approved by the Town Council. Upon approval of the applicant and the payment of
the license fee, the Tax Collector shall issue an appropriate license bearing a
notation indicating the term of its existence and the expiration date thereof.
   (B)   One license shall be issued for each device licensed, and it shall be
placed in a conspicuous place on the machine and so affixed that it cannot be
transferred from one machine to another.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-64) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.14 REVOCATION.
   In addition to any penalty imposed, the Town Manager may revoke any license
issued pursuant to this chapter for any violation of any section, or of any
ordinance pertaining to the conduct of the businesses.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-65)
§ 117.15 FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the license required by the terms of this chapter, the
following taxes, or license fees, shall be paid and collected, and no person
engaging in the designated businesses, or a combination thereof, shall maintain
the premises without having first obtained a license therefor:
      (1)   Discotheque; dance hall: $25;
      (2)   Amusement center: $25; and
      (3)   Billiard or pool halls: $25.
   (B)   These license fees shall be paid in addition to the license fee
imposed upon each mechanical amusement device.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-66)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished in
accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. passed - -, § 8-44)
CHAPTER 118: MINORITY BUSINESSES
Section
   
118.01   General provisions
§ 118.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council shall have a verifiable goal of 10% for participation
by minority businesses in building contracts awarded pursuant to G.S. § 143-
128.
   (B)   The official, employee or agent responsible for advertising the
contracts shall compile a list of minority businesses within the bidding area,
using information obtained from the State Department of Economic and Community
Development, Minority Business Development Agency or from other institutions or
agencies providing the information.
   (C)   This list shall be updated on an annual basis and shall be open for
inspection and shall be available so that minority businesses will have the
opportunity to add their names to the list. Copies of this resolution shall be
transmitted to the businesses on the list as soon as practicable along with the
name of the official, employee or agent who shall serve as the contact person
for minority businesses and responsible for answering project related questions
posed by minority business.
   (D)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single prime contract systems, documents related to the
contract shall be available for inspection at a convenient and accessible
location of which minority businesses shall receive notice.
   (E)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single prime contract systems, the contract person designated
pursuant to division (C) above shall hold a pre-bid conference to orient
contractors and subcontractors to the policy expressed (in this resolution as
well as bid procedures and regulations). Minority businesses on the list
obtained and maintained as provided herein shall be notified of and invited to
these pre-bid conferences.
   (F)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single prime contract system, published notice of the contract
shall include a summary of this resolution.
   (G)   For any such building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification contract system, the contract person designated herein shall
maintain records with respect to:
      (1)   Those contractors or subcontractors notified of the project and the
number of these contractors and subcontractors that are minority businesses as
detailed in G.S. § 143-128 appearing on the list of minority businesses
maintained pursuant to division (B) above;
      (2)   Those contractors or subcontractors that bid or otherwise respond
to notice of the project and the number of these that is on the maintained list
of minority businesses;
      (3)   Those contractors or subcontractors awarded contracts as part of
the project and the number and identity of those that are on the list of
minority businesses; and
      (4)   The percentage of work on the project that is to be performed by
minority businesses appearing on the list maintained pursuant to this
resolution.
   (H)   For any such building contract put out for bids under the single prime
contract system, the single prime contractor shall:
      (1)   Notify those minority businesses appearing on the list of minority
businesses maintained pursuant to division (B) above of the portion of the
project which will be subcontracted by the single contractor and solicit bids
from the minority businesses; and
      (2)   Submit with his or her bids records with respect to:
         (a)   Those subcontractors notified of the project and of those
elements of the project for which subcontracts will be let and the number of
these subcontractors that are minority businesses as defined in G.S. § 143-128
appearing on the list of minority businesses maintained pursuant to division
(B) above;
         (b)   Those subcontractors that bid or otherwise respond to notice of
the project and the number of these that are on the maintained list of minority
businesses;
         (c)   Those subcontractors awarded contracts as part of the project
and the number and identity of those that are on the maintained list of
minority businesses; and
         (d)   The percentage of work on the project that is to be performed by
minority businesses appearing on the list maintained pursuant to this
resolution.
   (I)   These policies shall be a part of the request for proposals for any
such contract and noncompliance by any single prime bidder shall be grounds for
declaring the bid non-responsive.
   (J)   This resolution shall become effective upon its adoption.
(Ord. passed 6- -2003)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
131.   WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS
         
132.   LOITERING AND TEMPORARY LIVING FACILITIES
         
133.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
130.01   State statutes applicable
   
130.02   Drinking in public places generally; penalty
   
130.03   Possession of alcoholic beverages in or near town recreational and
governmental facilities
   
130.04   Drinking in town recreational facilities
   
130.05   Possession of open container in public places; exceptions
   
130.06   Sale near schools
Statutory references:
   Intoxicating liquors generally, see G.S. Ch. 18B
§ 130.01 STATE STATUTES APPLICABLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer for sale, disposal, display or
otherwise use or offer for use or consumption, any beer, wine or other
alcoholic beverage within the confines of the town except that the offer, use,
sale, disposal, display or consumption shall be in conformance with the
requirements of the General Statutes of the state, applying. Violation of this
provision shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a $50 fine pursuant to
G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6-1; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 130.02 DRINKING IN PUBLIC PLACES GENERALLY; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage,
as defined in G.S. § 18B-101(4), on any property owned, occupied or controlled
by the town, or upon any public vehicular areas. Those public vehicular areas
shall be construed to mean, and include, any drive, driveway, road, roadway,
street, sidewalk, alley, parking area or other space open for the purpose of
vehicular traffic or operation upon the grounds or premises of any service
station, car wash, supermarket, store, restaurant, amusement center, lounge,
shopping center or office building, or any other business or municipal
establishment, or groups of establishments, providing parking space for
customers, patrons, employees or the general public.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section or failing
or neglecting or refusing to comply with this section shall, upon conviction,
be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a $50 fine pursuant to G.S. §
14-4.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, it shall not be unlawful for any person
to consume any alcoholic beverage within the bounds of a sidewalk café
permitted pursuant to the provisions of this code and for which a valid ABC
permit exists.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6-2; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 130.03 POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN OR NEAR TOWN RECREATIONAL AND
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry upon or within 50 feet of the
boundaries of, either by vehicle or as a pedestrian, any park, swimming pool,
playing field, playground or other recreational facility of any kind whatsoever
owned and operated by the town, any alcoholic beverage, as defined in G.S. §
18B-101(4), in any bottle, jar, glass, cup, decanter or other container,
whether the transportation be for purpose of consumption or any other use.
Violation of this provision shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a $50
fine pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6-3; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 130.04 DRINKING IN TOWN RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or drink any alcoholic
beverage, as defined in G.S. § 18B-101(4), on the premises of any park,
swimming pool, playing field, playground or other recreational facility of any
kind whatsoever owned and operated by the town. Violation of this provision
shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a $50 fine pursuant to G.S. § 14-
4.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6-4; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 130.05 POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER IN PUBLIC PLACES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
in any public place or thoroughfare, street, alley or public building, whether
as a pedestrian or driver in any type or mode of vehicle, public or private,
any container of alcoholic beverage, as defined in G.S. § 18B-101(4), which
shall have had any seal, cap, tap, stopper, cork or other device intended to
seal the container, broken, removed or otherwise moved from its original
position so as to make the contents available for consumption. PUBLIC AREAS
shall be construed to mean, and include, any drive, driveway, road, roadway,
street, sidewalk, alley, parking area or other space open for the purpose of
vehicular traffic or operation upon the grounds or premises of any service
station, car wash, supermarket, store, restaurant, amusement center, lounge,
shopping center or office building, or any other business or municipal
establishment, or groups of establishments providing parking spaces for
customers, patrons, employees or the general public.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to nor serve to prohibit the sale and
dispensing of alcoholic beverages in any public retail outlet or restaurant
lawfully licensed and empowered to make such sales and dispensation.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by
a $50 fine.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6-5; Am. Ord. passed 3-20-2025)
§ 130.06 SALE NEAR SCHOOLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any beer, wine
or alcoholic beverages within 1,000 feet of public or private school property
in the town.
(Ord. passed - -, § 6-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS
Section
   
131.01   General provisions
§ 131.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Any person who shall fire off, discharge or explode any firearm, gun pistol,
air gun or air rifle, cartridge or fireworks, within the corporate limits of
the town on, or off his or her premises, in sport or amusement, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to and shall pay a penalty of $10.
(Ord. 2, passed 10-2-1956)
CHAPTER 132: LOITERING AND TEMPORARY LIVING FACILITIES
Section
   
132.01   Definition
   
132.02   General provisions
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the general public has access and a right
of resort for business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose, but does not
necessarily mean a place devoted solely to the uses of the public. It shall
also include the front or immediate area of any store, shop, restaurant, or
other place of business and also public grounds, areas or parks.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 5-17-2011)
§ 132.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand alone or congregate with
other persons on any street or sidewalk or public place within the town limits
with the intent to, or who shall in fact:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or
impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians;
or
      (2)   Obstruct the entrance to any business establishment without so
doing for some lawful purpose, if contrary to the expressed wish of the owner,
lessee, managing agent or person in control or charge of the building or
premises.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, singly or in groups, to erect on
any property, public or private, any temporary shack, shanty, tent or structure
for place of temporary habitation or abode, for the purpose of living thereon
and in such a manner as to create a place of camping, or temporary abode;
provided, however, that this section shall have no application to any
individuals or group of individual who are living in temporary quarters on the
premises of another with that land owner’s permission or consent, or who is
engaged in the lawful and proper activities of any boy scout or girl scout
organization, or auxiliary, or any other civic enterprise or project.
   (C)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions in this
section, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order that
person to stop causing or committing such conditions and to move on or
disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey such orders shall be guilty
of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 05-17-2011) Penalty, see § 132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor as set forth in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2011-01, passed 05-17-2011)
CHAPTER 133: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
133.01   Public urination and defecation
§ 133.01 PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION.
   Except in designated water closets or toilet facilities, it shall be
unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate on any public place, sidewalk,
street, alleyway or right-of-way, or in any public building, or on private
property. Having the permission of the owner or person in lawful possession of
the real property shall constitute an affirmative defense to the charge of
urinating or defecating on private property. Any person who violates this
section shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more
than $500.
(Ord. 2021-01, passed 1-21-2021)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
         
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
         
152.   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION
         
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
154.   ZONING
         
155.   ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES
         
156.   MOUNTAIN AND HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT
         
157.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
Section
   
150.01   Trailer parks
   
150.02   Parking and location of mobile homes
   
150.03   Severability
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 TRAILER PARKS.
   (A)   Trailer parks are permitted in General Residential District provided
that:
      (1)   The area of the trailer park site shall be a minimum of two acres,
and the park shall have minimum of five trailer spaces available at first
occupancy;
      (2)   The distance of every trailer from the nearest property line shall
meet the front, side and rear yard requirements for single-family residences in
the single-family residential district;
      (3)   The minimum lot size for each trailer space shall be 40 by 60 feet
and there shall be no more than ten trailer spaces per acre of site area; and
      (4)   A densely planted buffer strip, consisting of trees, shrubs or
other planting, at least ten feet in height shall be provided along the rear
and/ or side property lines of the trailer park. No such buffer shall, however,
extend nearer to a street right-of-way line than the established building line
of adjoining lots.
   (B)   Accessory buildings or structures provided such shall be permitted
only in a rear yard and shall be not less than five feet from any property
line, and further provided that in the case of corner lots, the buildings or
structures shall be set back at least 30 feet from any side street right-of-way
line.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.02 PARKING AND LOCATION OF MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or place within the town any
mobile home or house trailer, except in those areas as may be designated for
such purposes under the Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 154) and regulations of the town.
   (B)   Each day which any person or the chief executive officer of any firm
or corporation shall allow a house trailer or mobile home to be parked or
situated within the town, other than the area provided therefor, as hereinabove
set forth, shall be a separate offense, that is to say, that for each and every
day this section is violated a separate and distinct misdemeanor has been
committed, and the person violating this section shall be fined or imprisoned
for each offense as hereinabove provided.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to anyone engaged in the business of
manufacturing or selling house trailers or mobile homes, when the house
trailers or mobile homes are not in fact occupied, provided, the dealer or
manufacturer has complied with all of the ordinances of the town and the laws
of the state.
   (D)   This section shall take effect and be enforced immediately upon the
passage thereof by the Council members of the town.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1975) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person or the chief executive officer of any firm or corporation
which shall park or place any mobile home or house trailer within the town,
except in the areas hereinabove provided for, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, upon conviction of violating §
150.02, be fined $50 or imprisoned for a period of not more than 30 days in the
county jail, or both in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 4-1-1975)
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Findings
   
151.03   Intent and scope
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Severability
Enforcement and Procedures
   
151.15   Housing Administrator
   
151.16   Appeals and the Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
151.17   Finance
   
151.18   Abatement; hearing on charges
   
151.19   Service of order
   
151.20   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.21   Market value
   
151.22   Enforcement
   
151.23   Lien
   
151.24   Abandonment of intent and purpose
   
151.25   Methods of repairing, closing or demolishing certain abandoned
structures
   
151.26   Affordable housing organization notification
   
151.27   Appeals procedure
   
151.28   Supplemental nature
   
151.29   Compensation
Standards
   
151.40   General
   
151.41   Base equipment facilities
   
151.42   Natural light and ventilation
   
151.43   Electrical systems
   
151.44   Sanitation
   
151.45   Exterior premise and structure
   
151.46   Interior structure
   
151.47   Space and use
   
151.48   Unfit for human habitation
Rental Units
   
151.60   Noncompliant rental units
   
151.61   Landlord duties
   
151.62   Tenant duties
   
151.63   Remedies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   The regulations within these texts shall be known as "The Town of Columbus
Minimum Housing Code Ordinance," and hereafter shall be referred to as "this
code."
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that the
existence and occupation of dwellings in this state that are unfit for human
habitation are inimical to the welfare and dangerous and injurious to the
health, safety and morals of the people of this state, and that a public
necessity exists for the repair, closing or demolition of such dwellings.
Whenever any city or county of this state finds that there exists in the city
or county dwellings that are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation,
defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents or other calamities, lack of
ventilation, light or sanitary facilities, or due to other conditions rendering
the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous or detrimental to the health,
safety, morals or otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the
city or county, power is hereby conferred upon the city or county to exercise
its police powers to repair, close or demolish the dwellings in the manner
herein provided.
   (B)   The town may also, in pursuant of G.S. § 160A-441, by ordinance
provide for the repair, closing or demolition of any abandoned structure which
the Town Council finds to be a health or safety hazard as a result of the
attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous
conditions constituting a threat to children or frequent use by vagrants as
living quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities. The ordinance, if
adopted, may provide for the repair, closing or demolition of the structure
pursuant to the same provisions and procedures as are prescribed herein for the
repair, closing or demolition of dwellings found to be unfit for human
habitation.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.03 INTENT AND SCOPE.
   The regulations and provisions set forth in this code are construed to
secure the interests of the public within the corporate limits of the town,
being the health, safety, morals and welfare of the public to the extent that
each is affected by the occupancy and maintenance of structures and/or
buildings and premises. Any structure, building and/or premise that is not in
compliance with the provisions and regulations of this code shall be altered,
repaired or in some manner remedied so as to ensure a minimum standard of
health, safety and welfare within the town, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT,
RENTAL UNIT, STRUCTURE, BUILDING OR PREMISES are used it shall be understood as
though they were followed by the phrase, "or any part thereof." For the purpose
of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING/OUTHOUSE. A structure located on the same parcel of
property as the principal structure and the use of which is incidental to the
use of the primary structure.
   ALTER or ALTERATION. Any change or modification to the construction or
occupancy of a structure.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Housing Administrator.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly below
the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and can be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 55% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 55% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home used and
occupied or intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating by
human occupants including any outhouses or accessory building usually enjoyed
therewith; provided that temporary housing as hereinafter defined shall not be
regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXIT. A clear and unobstructed means of departure from the interior of a
building or structure to the exterior at street or grade level.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Housing Administrator.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together and having common living,
sleeping, cooking and eating facilities.
   FLOOR SPACE. The total square feet of space of all habitable rooms.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR AND DESIGNATED PERSONS. A Housing Administrator for
the town with the responsibility of enforcing this chapter within the corporate
limits of the town.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   LANDLORD. An owner (as defined in this section) that receives some financial
benefit as a result of his or her allowing another individual(s) to use or
occupy real property or a portion of that real property, for residential use.
   MAY. Permissible.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are rented, leased, subleased
or otherwise contracted.
   OWNER. Any person who alone or jointly, or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have fee simple title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, and
every mortgagee, and owner and holder of a deed of trust and the trustee
therein, of record; with or without accompanying actual possession of the
dwelling or dwelling unit; or
      (2)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, or as executor, executrix, administrator,
administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. Any such person
thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions
of this chapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the
same extent as if he or she were the owner.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership, or any other legal entity.
   PLUMBING. The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension, and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage, storm
water drainage facilities, the venting system, and public or private water
supply systems to their connection with any point of public disposal.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including, dwellings and structures
within the definitions as defined herein.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The governing body of the town or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of the town or the state
relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities concerning
dwellings in the town.
   REMOVAL. The demolition and approved disposal of the entire building. The
premises shall be free and clear of any debris; and in a manner as not to leave
any holes or pockets, which may retain water.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit,
building or structure wherein the occupant(s) is the tenant and the owner(s) is
the landlord of the real property, or is anticipated as such.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage, and
the term shall include but not be limited to ashes, paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin
cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SHALL. Synonymous with REQUIRED and means mandatory.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 60 consecutive days.
   TENANT. Any natural person or entity who is a named party or signatory to a
lease or rental agreement, and who occupies, resides in, or has a legal right
to possess and use an individual rental unit.
   TOWN. The Town of Columbus located in Polk County, North Carolina.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Means that conditions exist in a dwelling which
violate or do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness
or one or more of the provisions established by this chapter.
   VENTILATION. The insufflations and the exsufflation of air by natural or
mechanical means, to and from housing.
   VENTILATION, MECHANICAL. Ventilation by power-driven devices.
   VENTILATION, NATURAL. Ventilation by opening to outer air through windows,
skylights, doors, louvers or stacks, with or without wind-driven devices.
   WATER CLOSET. A toilet or commode.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.05 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
ENFORCEMENT AND PROCEDURES
§ 151.15 HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The town shall appoint a Housing Administrator, who is authorized and
charged with the duty to exercise and utilize any powers necessary and
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this
chapter. The Housing Administrator is granted the following powers, but is not
limited to the following:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
      (2)   To administer oaths, affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (3)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations in a
manner that will do the least inconvenience to the persons in possession. It
shall be unlawful for any owner or person in possession of premises on which
housing is located within the corporate limits and jurisdictional areas of the
town to refuse, after being presented with a warrant as issued under G.S. § 15-
27.2, to permit the Housing Administrator, or a duly appointed agent thereof to
enter upon the premises for the purpose of making examinations as authorized by
this code. Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor;
      (4)   To appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents and employees
necessary to carry out the purposes of this code; and
      (5)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this code
to other officers and other agents.
   (B)   No officer, agent or employee of the town shall be rendered personally
liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any
act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties under this
code.
(Ord. passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 APPEALS AND THE ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   Any appeals from decisions of the Housing Administrator shall be brought
before the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Whenever this Board holds hearings for
appeals made from decisions of the Housing Administrator, it shall be known as
the Housing Appeals Board. The Housing Appeals Board shall be comprised of five
members of the Zoning Board of Adjustment. This Board shall have the power to
elect its own officers, to fix the times and places for its meetings, to adopt
its own procedure, and to adopt other rules and regulations for the proper
discharge of its duties. The Housing Appeals Board shall also keep an accurate
record of all of its proceedings.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.17 FINANCE.
   (A)   The Town Council, upon adopting this code, shall, as soon as possible
thereafter, prepare an estimate of the annual expenses or costs to provide the
equipment, personnel and supplies necessary for periodic examinations and
investigations of the dwellings within the corporate limits for the purpose of
determining the fitness of dwellings for human habitation, and for the
enforcement and administration of its ordinances adopted under this code.
   (B)   The town is authorized to make appropriations from its revenues
necessary for this purpose and may accept and apply grants or donations to
assist the town in carrying out the provisions of the ordinances.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.18 ABATEMENT; HEARING ON CHARGES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-443, whenever it is petitioned to the Housing
Administrator by a public authority, by at least five residents of the town, or
when it appears to the Housing Administrator (on his or her own motion) that
any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the Housing Administrator shall, if
his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for the charges, issue
and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in interest in the
dwellings a complaint stating the charges in that respect and containing a
notice that a hearing will be held before the Housing Administrator. The
hearing will be held before the Housing Administrator (or designated agent) at
a place within the corporate limits of the town, therein fixed not less than
ten days nor more than 30 days after serving the complaint. The owner and
parties in interest shall be given the right to file an answer to the complaint
and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time
fixed in the complaint. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law and
equity shall not be controlling before the Housing Administrator.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.19 SERVICE OF ORDER.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Administrator determines
that the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation according
to the standards herein set forth, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact for the determination and shall issue and cause an order to be
served upon all parties in interest as provided in §
151.20 below. The order shall contain a notice of right to appeal within ten
days of the issuance of the order to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Deteriorated dwelling. If the repair, alteration or improvement of
the dwelling can be made at a cost no more than 55% of the present market value
of the dwelling, the order shall require the owner, within a specified period
of time not longer than 90 days, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling so as
to render it safe. The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate
and close the dwelling until the repairs, alterations or improvements have been
made and/or the unsafe and dangerous character of the dwelling has been
corrected.
      (2)   Dilapidated dwelling. If the repair, alteration or improvement
cannot be made at a cost equal to or less than 55% of the present market value
of the dwelling, the order shall require the owner, within a specified period
of time no longer than 90 days, to either repair, alter or improve the dwelling
so as to bring it into compliance with the standards set forth herein, or to
demolish and remove the dwelling.
   (B)   If the dwelling is located in a historic district of the town and the
Historic District Commission determines, after a public hearing as provided by
ordinance, that the dwelling is of particular significance or value toward
maintaining the character of the district, and the dwelling has not been
condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the dwelling be vacated and
closed consistent with G.S. § 160A-400.14(a).
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.20 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160A-445, a complaint or order issued by the
Housing Administrator and/or the Zoning Board of Adjustments pursuant to this
code shall be served upon the owner and/or parties in interest personally, by
registered mail, or by certified mail. When service is made by registered or
certified mail, a copy of the complaint may also be sent by regular mail.
Service shall be deemed sufficient if the registered or certified mail is
unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is not returned by the post office
within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the
pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Housing Administrator in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known, but have refused to
accept service by registered or certified mail and the Housing Administrator
makes an affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order to the
owner or other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this code. Whenever service
is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in
a conspicuous place of the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.21 MARKET VALUE.
   (A)   The Housing Administrator shall fix a reasonable market value of any
dwelling pursuant to this code and that value shall be binding, unless
challenged by the owner in writing to the Housing Administrator within a period
of ten days after the receipt of an order. After the protest, the Housing
Administrator shall nominate one competent and disinterested person; the
protesting party shall nominate one competent and disinterested person; and the
two persons so nominated shall nominate a third competent and disinterested
person; and the three persons so nominated shall serve as commissioners of
appraisal.
   (B)   The Commissioners shall make their appraisal of the value of the
dwelling under consideration, shall return their appraisal to the Housing
Administrator and the protesting party within ten days of their appointment,
and the appraisal shall be binding and conclusive for the purposes of this
code. The cost of such an appraisal shall be paid by the protesting party to
the Housing Administrator at the time of filing the written protest.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the owner of a dwelling found to be deteriorated fails to comply
with an order issued by the Housing Administrator to repair, alter or improve,
or to vacate and close the dwelling, unless an appeal is taken from such an
order as provided in §§
151.16 and
151.27, the Housing Administrator may:
      (1)   Secure the issuance of a warrant charging the owner with a
violation of the standards set forth within this code;
      (2)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved, or pending
the repairs, alterations or improvements, may order the dwelling to be vacated
and closed; and
      (3)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling so closed,
a placard with the following words:
"THIS BUILDING IS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION; THE USE OR OCCUPATION OF THIS
DWELLING FOR HUMAN HABITATION IS PROHIBITED AND UNLAWFUL."
Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute as a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the owner of a dwelling found to be dilapidated fails to comply
with an order issued by the Housing Administrator to vacate and close, or fails
to remove or demolish the dwelling, unless an appeal is taken from such an
order as provided in §§
151.16 and
151.27, the Housing Administrator may:
      (1)   Secure the issuance of a warrant charging the owner with a
violation of the standards set forth within this code;
      (2)   Order the dwelling to be vacated and closed and removed and
demolished; and
      (3)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any dwelling so closed a
placard with the following words:
"THIS BUILDING IS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION; THE USE OR OCCUPATION OF THIS
DWELLING FOR HUMAN HABITATION IS PROHIBITED AND UNLAWFUL."
Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute as a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (C)   The duties and powers of the Housing Administrator set forth in
divisions (A) and (B) above, and in §§
151.24 and
151.25 below shall not be exercised until the Town Council shall have by
ordinance ordered the Housing Administrator to proceed and effectuate the
purpose of this code with respect to the particular property or properties
which the Housing Administrator shall have found to be unfit for human
habitation and which property or properties shall be described in the
ordinance. This chapter shall be recorded in the office of the register of
deeds of the county and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in
the grantor index. No such ordinance as described in this division (C) shall be
adopted until the owner has first been given a reasonable opportunity to bring
the dwelling unit into conformity with this code. As provided by G.S. § 160A-
443(7), if any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling, the
public officer may file a civil action in the name of the town to remove the
occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of summary
ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as parties-
defendant any person occupying the dwelling. The Clerk of Superior Court shall
issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a magistrate at a
certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the issuance of the
summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint shall be served as
provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned according to its tenor,
and if on its return it appears to have been duly served, and if at the hearing
the public officer produces a certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the
governing body pursuant to this division (C), authorizing the officer to
proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling, the magistrate shall enter judgment
ordering that the premises be vacated and that all persons be removed. The
judgment ordering that the dwelling be vacated shall be enforced in the same
manner as the judgment for summary ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30.
   (D)   An appeal from any judgment entered hereunder by the magistrate may be
taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the execution of the judgment may be
stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An action to remove an occupant of a
dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of a summary
ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division unless the occupant was served
with notice at least 30 days before the filing of the summary ejectment
proceeding that the governing body has ordered the Housing Administrator to
proceed to exercise his or her duties under this section and §
151.24 below to vacate and close or remove and demolish the dwelling.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.23 LIEN.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Administrator
shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred,
which lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien
for special assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
   (B)   If the real property upon which the cost was incurred is located
within the corporate limits of the town, then the amount of the cost is also a
lien on any other real property of the owner located within a distance of one
mile from any portion of the corporate limits of the town except for the
owner's primary residence. The additional lien provided in this division is
inferior to all prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the dwelling is removed or demolished by the Housing Administrator,
he or she shall sell the materials of the dwelling, and any personal property,
fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall
credit the proceeds of the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition
and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the
Housing Administrator, shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and
shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by
final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings, or
otherwise.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.24 ABANDONMENT OF INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   After the Housing Administrator has issued an order and the Town
Council has adopted an ordinance ordering a dwelling to be repaired or vacated
and closed as provided in §
151.19 above, and the owner has vacated and closed the dwelling and kept the
dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the ordinance
or order, the Town Council of the town may find that the owner has abandoned
the intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in order to
render it fit for human habitation and that the continuation of the dwelling in
its vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health, safety, morals
and welfare of the town in that the dwelling would continue to deteriorate,
would create a fire and safety hazard, would be a threat to children and
vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal activities, would cause or
contribute to blight and the deterioration of property values in the area, and
would render unavailable property and a dwelling which might otherwise have
been made available to ease the persistent shortage of decent and affordable
housing in this state and township; then in those circumstances, the Town
Council may, after the expiration of the one-year period, enact an ordinance
and serve the ordinance on the owner, requiring the owner to either:
      (1)   Repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days, if the
repair necessary to render the dwelling fit for human habitation would cost
less than 50% of the present value of the dwelling; or
      (2)   Demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days if the repair
necessary to render the dwelling fit for human habitation would cost in excess
of 50% of the present value of the dwelling.
   (B)   The ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds
in the county and shall be indexed in the name of the property owner in the
grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with this chapter, the Housing
Administrator shall effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.25 METHODS FOR REPAIRING, CLOSING OR DEMOLISHING CERTAIN ABANDONED
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 160A-441, in addition to the exercise of police
power authorized herein, the town may by ordinance provide for the repair,
closing or demolition of any abandoned structure which the Town Council finds
to be a health or safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or
rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a
threat to children or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the
absence of sanitary facilities.
   (B)   The repair, closing or demolition of the structures shall be pursuant
to the same provisions and procedures as are prescribed in this code for the
repair, closing or demolition of dwellings, found to be unfit for human
habitation.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.26 AFFORDABLE HOUSING ORGANIZATION NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Under the provisions of G.S. § 160A-443(8), whenever a determination
is made pursuant to this code that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or
removed or demolished, notice of the order shall be given by first-class mail
to any organization involved in providing or restoring dwellings for affordable
housing that has filed a written request for the notices.
   (B)   A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of the notice shall be
given before removal or demolition by action of the Housing Administrator, to
allow the opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make
repairs, lease or purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable
housing.
   (C)   The Public Officer or Clerk shall certify the mailing of the notices,
and the certification shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an
organization that has filed a written request for the notices may raise the
issue of failure to mail the notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order
requiring the public officer to wait 45 days before causing removal or
demolition.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.27 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Administrator may
be taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or council of
the town. Any appeal from the Housing Administrator shall be taken within ten
days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with
the Housing Administrator and with the Board a notice of appeal which shall
specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any
notice of appeal, the Housing Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the
Housing Appeals Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the
Housing Administrator refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any
act, his or her decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When
any appeal is from a decision of the Housing Administrator requiring the person
aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the
requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless the Housing Administrator
certifies to the Housing Appeals Board, after the notice of appeal is filed
with him or her, that because of facts stated in the certificate (a copy of
which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of his or her requirement
would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that case the requirement
shall not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for
due cause shown upon not less than one day's written notice to the Housing
Administrator, by the Board, or by a court of record upon petition made
pursuant to division (D) below.
   (B)   The Appeals Board shall fix a reasonable time for hearing appeals,
shall give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision within a
reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The
Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision or
order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in its opinion
ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all the powers of
the Housing Administrator, but the concurring vote of four members of the Board
shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the Housing
Administrator. The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, when
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out
the strict letter of the ordinance, to adapt the application of the ordinance
to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the ordinance
shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice
done.
   (C)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (D)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Administrator
or a decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction restraining the Housing Administrator from carrying out the order or
decision and the court may, upon the petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Administrator pending a final disposition of the cause.
The petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or
rendering of the decision. Hearings shall be held by the court on a petition
within 20 days, and shall be given preference over other matters on the court's
calendar. The court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter
the final order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be
necessary to file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction
under this division.
   (E)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained or used in violation of this chapter or of any ordinance or code
adopted under authority of this chapter or any valid order or decision of the
public officer or board made pursuant to any ordinance or code adopted under
authority of this chapter, the public officer or board may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or use, to restrain, correct or abate
the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwelling, or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the dwelling, as
provided under G.S. § 160A-446(g).
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.28 SUPPLEMENTAL NATURE.
   Nothing in this code shall be construed to abrogate or impair the powers of
the courts or of any department of the town to enforce any provisions of its
charter or its ordinances or regulations, nor to prevent or punish violations
thereof; and the powers conferred by this code shall be in addition and
supplemental to the powers conferred by any other law.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.29 COMPENSATION.
   As provided in G.S. § 160A-447, nothing in this code shall be construed as
preventing the owner or owners of any property from receiving just compensation
for the taking of property by the power of eminent domain under the laws of
this state, nor as permitting any property to be condemned or destroyed except
in accordance with the police power of the state.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
STANDARDS
§ 151.40 GENERAL.
   No persons shall occupy as owner/occupant or let to another person(s) for
residential occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit designed for or intended to
be used for the purposes of living, eating, sleeping or cooking therein, which
does not comply with the following required standards.
(Ord. passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.41 BASE EQUIPMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be equipped with sanitary
facilities, which include not less than one kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or
shower, and a water closet, all of which being in good working condition and
connected to an approved water supply and sewage disposal system. The sanitary
facilities shall be located within the dwelling and/or dwelling unit and be
accessible to all occupants. The water closet and tub or shower shall be
located in a place, which allows privacy to the user.
   (B)   Hot and cold water shall be supplied in adequacy with proper and good
working connections to the kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, and the water
closet. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution
system from an approved water supply.
   (C)   A heating facility shall be furnished for every dwelling unit and
shall be installed in accordance with all appropriate local, county and/or
state building, gas or electric codes.
      (1)   The heating facilities shall be a central or electrical heating
system or sufficient chimneys, flues or gas vents, with heating appliances
connected so as to be capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit therein
to a temperature of no less than 68°F when there is an outside temperature of
20°F at a distance of three feet above the floor at a distance no less than two
feet from any exterior wall.
      (2)   Portable kerosene heaters are not acceptable as a permanent source
of heat as required herein, but may be used as a supplementary source in
single-family dwellings and duplex units. An owner who complied with division
(C) above shall not be in violation of this section where an occupant of a
dwelling unit uses a kerosene heater as a primary source of heat.
   (D)   All cooking equipment shall be installed in accordance with all
applicable building, gas or electrical codes and shall be maintained in a good
and safe working condition.
   (E)   Each occupied dwelling unit shall be required to contain at least one
approved operable smoke detector installed outside each sleeping area on or
near the ceiling. The smoke detector shall be electrically or battery operated,
and provide an audible alarm. The smoke detector is operable when it is
furnished with a working battery or the electricity is on. The occupant head of
household is responsible for maintaining a lawful source of electricity.
   (F)   No person shall occupy as an owner or occupant or allow another person
to occupy any building or structure which does not comply with the applicable
provisions of the Fire Prevention Code of the state and any other applicable
governing body.
(Ord. passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.42 NATURAL LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   In lieu of the means for natural light and ventilation prescribed herein,
artificial light or mechanical ventilation complying with the State Building
Code(s) shall be permitted.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall be provided with at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors or to a court, with a minimum total
window/skylight area equal to that of 8% of the floor area of the habitable
room. When a window faces a portion of another structure and such a structure
is located less than three feet from the window and extends to a level above
that of the ceiling of the habitable room, such a window shall be deemed as not
facing the outdoors nor to a court and shall not be contributing to the minimum
total window/skylight area of the room.
   (B)   Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior windows or
skylights is provided via an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the
adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior room or
space. The size of the outdoor facing window(s) or skylight(s) shall be based
on the total floor area being served.
   (C)   The area of the window/skylight that can be opened in every habitable
room shall be equal to at least 45% of the required window area, or the room
shall have other mechanical ventilation.
   (D)   Each bathroom and toilet room shall comply with the ventilation and
light requirements of habitable rooms except that when a mechanical ventilation
system is used the air exhausted by such shall discharge to the outdoors and
shall not be re-circulated.
   (E)   All other spaces shall be provided with natural or artificial light
sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions, the safe occupancy
of the space, and the utilization of the appliances, equipment and fixtures.
   (F)   Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be independent of all other
systems and shall be exhausted to the outside and in accordance with the
manufacturer's instructions.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.43 ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained in
a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used and installed and connected
to the source of electrical power in accordance with the Electrical Code of the
state, for existing dwellings.
   (B)   The minimum capacity of the service supply and main disconnect switch
shall be sufficient to carry the total load required in accordance with the
Electrical Code of the state, for existing dwellings.
   (C)   Every dwelling shall be safely and adequately wired for electric
lights and convenient receptacles. Every habitable room shall have provisions
for adequate lighting and other necessary electrical service, with kitchen,
bath, hall and exits having ceiling and/or wall mounted fixtures.
   (D)   Every common hall and stairway of every multiple dwelling containing
five or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every
common hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling containing less than five
dwelling units shall be supplied with conveniently located light switches,
controlling an adequate lighting system which may be turned on when needed
instead of full-time lighting. Where the difference between floor levels is six
steps or more, there shall be a wall switch at each floor level.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.44 SANITATION.
   (A)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for maintaining
it in a clean and sanitary condition, and the occupant shall avoid creating
unclean, unsanitary or unsafe conditions in the common areas. Every owner of a
multiple dwelling shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition the common
areas of a dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Every person who occupies and controls a dwelling unit shall dispose
of all garbage and rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in
proper storage facilities. In the case of single-family and two-family
dwellings, the persons who occupy and control the dwellings shall be
responsible for providing the approved receptacles for disposing of garbage and
rubbish. In the case of multi-family housing the owner shall be responsible for
providing the approved receptacles for the storage of garbage and rubbish.
   (C)   Every occupant of a single-family dwelling and every owner of a
multiple dwelling shall be responsible for the extermination of insects,
rodents or other pests within the building or premises by a generally accepted
method.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.45 EXTERIOR PREMISE AND STRUCTURE.
   (A)   All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the erosion of
soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or within any
structure located thereon, except for approved retention areas and reservoirs.
Lots shall also be properly graded to prevent surface water run off from being
directed onto adjoining properties.
   (B)   All driveways, walkways, stairs, driveways, parking spaces and similar
areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair, and maintained free from
hazardous conditions.
   (C)   Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not discharge gases,
steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous or particulate
wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private property or that of
another tenant.
   (D)   All accessory structures, including detached garages, fences and walls
shall be maintained structurally sound and in good repair.
   (E)   Each dwelling shall have address numbers placed in a position to be
plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters.
   (F)   All exterior surfaces, including but not limited to, doors, door and
window frames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies, decks and fences shall be
maintained in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay-
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment. All siding and masonry joints shall be
maintained weather resistant and water tight. All metal surfaces subject to
rust or corrosion shall be coated to inhibit the rust and corrosion and all
surfaces with rust or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit
future rust and corrosion. Surfaces designed for stabilization by oxidation are
exempt from this requirement.
   (G)   The building's foundation, walls, piers or other elements shall be
maintained in a safe manner capable of supporting the load which normal use may
cause to be placed thereon. All foundation walls shall be free of open cracks
and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to prevent the entry of
rodents and other pests.
   (H)   All exterior walls shall be substantially weather tight and water
tight and shall be free from holes, breaks and loose or rotting materials and
properly surface coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   (I)   The roof and flashing shall be maintained in a sound and tight manner
so as to not have defects that admit rain. Significantly deteriorated shingles
shall be replaced and a maximum of two layers of roofing shingles is allowed.
Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness and deterioration in the
walls or any interior portion of the structure. Roof water shall not be
discharged in a manner that creates a public nuisance and is in compliance with
division (A) above.
   (J)   All chimneys shall be maintained in a safe and sound condition showing
no loose brick or mortar. Deteriorated chimneys may be closed down and sealed
off.
   (K)   Every dwelling unit shall have two safe and unobstructed means of
egress with a minimum ceiling height of seven feet leading to a safe and open
space at ground level, except where one means of egress is permitted by the
State Building Code.
   (L)   Every exterior stairway, deck, porch or balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto shall be maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with
proper anchorage, and capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (M)   Every window and door (including basement or cellar door and hatchway)
shall be substantially weather tight, water tight, rodent proof and shall be
kept in sound working condition. All exterior doors shall have workable locks.
   (N)   Every structural element of the dwelling unit shall be structurally
sound and have no deterioration which would render it incapable of carrying
loads which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (O)   Protective railings shall be required for any unenclosed structure
that is 36 inches above the adjacent finish grade. Every handrail and guard
shall be firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and
shall be maintained in good condition.
   (P)   Accessory structures, which include but are not limited to garages and
storage buildings, shall be maintained and kept in a safe and sound structural
condition.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.46 INTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   All interior structural components shall be maintained structurally
sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (B)   All interior surfaces including windows and doors shall be maintained
in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping, flaking or abraded
paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or loose plaster, decayed
wood and other defective surface conditions shall be corrected.
   (C)   Every stair, ramp, landing, porch, deck or other walking surface shall
be maintained in sound condition and good repair.
   (D)   Each stairwell with more than four risers shall have handrails located
in accordance with requirements of the Building Code. Every handrail shall be
firmly fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads.
   (E)   Every bathroom and bedroom shall have a door that fits reasonably well
within its frame in good working condition with a privacy lock on the door.
   (F)   Every floor, wall and ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof,
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair and shall be safe to use and
capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
Each shall be free from cracks, breaks or holes which permit air to excessively
penetrate the room.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.47 SPACE AND USE.
   (A)   Dwelling and rooming units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be
separated from other adjoining spaces.
   (B)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor
area for the first occupant thereof and at least 100 square feet of additional
floor area per additional occupant. The floor area shall be calculated on the
basis of the total area of all habitable rooms.
   (C)   In every dwelling unit at least 70 square feet of bedroom floor area
shall be provided for the first occupant; at least 20 square feet of additional
bedroom space shall be provided for a second occupant; and at least 30 square
feet of additional bedroom floor space shall be provided for each occupant over
the number of two (children under the age of two shall not be counted).
   (D)   A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall not be less than seven
feet in any horizontal dimension. Kitchens shall have a clear passageway of not
less than three feet between counter fronts and appliances or walls.
   (E)   Doors of habitable rooms shall be a minimum of 32 inches wide and six
feet eight inches in height.
   (F)   (1)   Habitable rooms shall have a minimum ceiling height of not less
than seven feet for at least 50% of the floor area except for beams and girders
that are spaced not less than four feet on center, which may project no more
than six inches below the required ceiling height.
      (2)   All other rooms including kitchens, baths and hallways may have a
minimum ceiling height of six feet eight inches measured from the lowest
projection of the ceiling.
   (G)   Portions of a habitable room with a ceiling height less than five feet
shall not be considered as contributing to the minimum required habitable floor
area.
   (H)   Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall not be used for sleeping
purposes.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.48 UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   The Housing Administrator may determine that a residential building is unfit
for human habitation if he or she finds that any of the following conditions
exist in the building:
   (A)   Interior walls or vertical studs which list, lean or buckle to such an
extent as to render the building unsafe;
   (B)   Supporting members or members which show 33% or more of damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
show 50% or more of damage or deterioration;
   (C)   Floors or roofs which are overloaded, or which have insufficient
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
   (D)   Damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building unsafe;
   (E)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people;
   (F)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic;
   (G)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities;
   (H)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities to
such an extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents; or
   (I)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required by
this chapter which constitutes a health or a safety hazard.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
RENTAL UNITS
§ 151.60 NONCOMPLIANT RENTAL UNITS.
   Any rental unit shall be judged and determined as substandard or unfit for
human habitation as any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit,
building or structure is determined as such herein set forth in this code.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.61 LANDLORD DUTIES.
   According to G.S. § 42-42(a), the landlord of a rental unit shall:
   (A)   Comply with the current applicable building and housing codes, whether
enacted before or after October 1, 1977, to the extent required by the
operation of the codes; no new requirement is imposed by this division (A) if a
structure is exempt from a current building code;
   (B)   Make all repairs and do whatever is necessary to put and keep the
premises in a fit and habitable condition;
   (C)   Keep all common areas of the premises in safe condition;
   (D)   Maintain in good and safe working order and promptly repair all
electrical, plumbing, sanitary, heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
other facilities and appliances supplied or required to be supplied by the
landlord provided that notification of needed repairs is made to the landlord
in writing by the tenant, except in emergency situations;
   (E)   Provide operable smoke detectors, either battery-operated or
electrical, having an Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., listing or other
equivalent national testing laboratory approval, and install the smoke
detectors in accordance with either the standards of the National Fire
Protection Association or the minimum protection designated in the
manufacturer's instructions, which the landlord shall retain or provide as
proof of compliance. The landlord shall replace or repair the smoke detectors
within 15 days of receipt of notification if the landlord is notified of needed
replacement or repairs in writing by the tenant. The landlord shall ensure that
a smoke detector is operable and in good repair at the beginning of each
tenancy. Unless the landlord and the tenant have a written agreement to the
contrary, the landlord shall place new batteries in a battery-operated smoke
detector at the beginning of a tenancy and the tenant shall replace the
batteries as needed during the tenancy. Failure of the tenant to replace the
batteries as needed shall not be considered as negligence on the part of the
tenant or the landlord; and
   (F)   If the landlord is charging for the cost of providing water or sewer
service pursuant to G.S. § 42-42.1 and has actual knowledge from either the
supplying water system or other reliable source that water being supplied to
tenants within the landlord's property exceeds a maximum contaminant level
established pursuant to G.S. Ch. 130A, Art. 10, then he or she shall provide
notice that water being supplied exceeds a maximum contaminant level to the
tenant.
(Ord. passed - -2007) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.62 TENANT DUTIES.
   According to G.S. § 42-43(a), the tenant of a rental unit shall:
   (A)   Keep that part of the premises that the tenant occupies and uses as
clean and safe as the conditions of the premises permit and cause no unsafe or
unsanitary conditions in the common areas and remainder of the premises that
the tenant uses;
   (B)   Dispose of all ashes, rubbish, garbage and other waste in a clean and
safe manner;
   (C)   Keep all plumbing fixtures in the dwelling unit or used by the tenant
as clean as their condition permits;
   (D)   Not deliberately or negligently destroy, deface, damage or remove any
part of the premises, nor render inoperable the smoke detector provided by the
landlord, or knowingly permit any person to do so;
   (E)   Comply with any and all obligations imposed upon the tenant by current
applicable building and housing codes;
   (F)   Be responsible for all damage, defacement or removal of any property
inside a dwelling unit in the tenant's exclusive control unless the damage,
defacement or removal was due to ordinary wear and tear, acts of the landlord
or the landlord's agent, defective products supplied or repairs authorized by
the landlord, acts of third parties not invitees of the tenant, or natural
forces; and
   (G)   Notify the landlord, in writing, of the need for replacement of or
repairs to a smoke detector. The landlord shall ensure that a smoke detector is
operable and in good repair at the beginning of each tenancy. Unless the
landlord and the tenant have a written agreement to the contrary, the landlord
shall place new batteries in a battery-operated smoke detector at the beginning
of a tenancy and the tenant shall replace the batteries as needed during the
tenancy. Failure of the tenant to replace the batteries as needed shall not be
considered as negligence on the part of the tenant or the landlord.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
§ 151.63 REMEDIES.
   (A)   If a governmental agency responsible for the enforcement of a
building, housing or other appropriate code has notified the landlord that a
dwelling is condemned or unlawful to occupy due to the existence of conditions
that violate applicable codes, statutes, ordinances or regulations, a landlord
shall not enter into a rental agreement for the dwelling unit until the
conditions are corrected.
   (B)   If a rental unit is found to be noncompliant with this code by a
tenant, the tenant shall notify the landlord in writing of the needed repairs.
If the repairs needed constitute as an emergency, then an oral agreement with
the landlord can be made and notification can be written later attesting to
that conversation. Upon notification the landlord's duty to repair the
noncompliant aspects of the rental unit shall begin.
   (C)   Either the tenant or the landlord shall notify the Housing
Administrator of the noncompliant nature of the rental unit.
   (D)   If a landlord knowingly violates division (A) above, the tenant shall
recover either three months' periodic rent or up to treble the actual damages
sustained as a result of the violation, whichever is greater, cost of suit or
arbitration and reasonable attorneys' fees. If the tenant elects to terminate
the tenancy as a result of the conditions leading to the posting, or if the
appropriate governmental agency requires that the tenant vacate the premises,
the tenant also shall recover:
      (1)   The entire amount of any deposit prepaid by the tenant; and
      (2)   All prepaid rent.
   (E)   If a governmental agency responsible for the enforcement of a
building, housing or other appropriate code has notified the landlord that a
dwelling will be condemned or will be unlawful to occupy due to the existence
of conditions that violate applicable codes, statutes, ordinances or
regulations, a landlord, who knew or should have known of the existence of
these conditions, shall be required to pay relocation assistance to the
displaced tenants except that:
      (1)   A landlord shall not be required to pay relocation assistance to
any displaced tenant in a case in which the condemnation or no occupancy order
affects one or more dwelling units and directly results from conditions caused
by a tenant's or any third party's illegal conduct without the landlord's prior
knowledge;
      (2)   A landlord shall not be required to pay relocation assistance to
any displaced tenant in a case in which the condemnation or no occupancy order
affects one or more dwelling units and results from conditions arising from a
natural disaster such as, but not exclusively, an earthquake, tsunami, wind
storm or hurricane; and
      (3)   A landlord shall not be required to pay relocation assistance to
any displaced tenant in a case in which a condemnation affects one or more
dwelling units and the tenant's displacement is a direct result of the
acquisition of the property by eminent domain.
   (F)   Relocation assistance provided to displaced tenants under this
division shall be the greater amount of $2,000 per dwelling unit or three times
the monthly rent. In addition to relocation assistance, the landlord shall be
required to pay to the displaced tenants the entire amount of any deposit
prepaid by the tenant and all prepaid rent.
   (G)   The landlord shall pay relocation assistance and any prepaid deposit
and prepaid rent to displaced tenants within seven days of the governmental
agency sending notice of the condemnation, eviction or displacement order to
the landlord. The landlord shall pay relocation assistance and any prepaid
deposit and prepaid rent either by making individual payments by certified
check to displaced tenants or by providing a certified check to the
governmental agency ordering condemnation, eviction or displacement, for
distribution to the displaced tenants. If the landlord fails to complete
payment of relocation assistance within the period required under this
division, the town may advance the cost of the relocation assistance payments
to the displaced tenants.
   (H)   During the period from the date that a governmental agency responsible
for the enforcement of a building, housing or other appropriate code first
notifies the landlord of conditions that violate applicable codes, statutes,
ordinances or regulations to the time that relocation assistance payments are
paid to eligible tenants, or the conditions leading to the notification are
corrected, the landlord may not:
      (1)   Evict, harass or intimidate tenants into vacating their units for
the purpose of avoiding or diminishing application of this section;
      (2)   Reduce services to any tenant; or
      (3)   Materially increase or change the obligations of any tenant,
including but not limited to any rent increase.
   (I)   Displaced tenants shall be entitled to recover any relocation
assistance, prepaid deposits and prepaid rent required by division (E) above.
In addition, displaced tenants shall be entitled to recover any actual damages
sustained by them as a result of the condemnation, eviction or displacement
that exceed the amount of relocation assistance that is payable. In any action
brought by displaced tenants to recover any payments or damages required or
authorized by divisions (D) and (E) above that are not paid by the landlord or
advanced by the town, the displaced tenants shall also be entitled to recover
their costs of suit or arbitration and reasonable attorneys' fees.
   (J)   lf, after 60 days from the date that the city, town, county or
municipal corporation first advanced relocation assistance funds to the
displaced tenants, a landlord has failed to repay the amount of relocation
assistance advanced by the town under division (G) above, then the town shall
assess civil penalties in the amount of $50 per day for each tenant to whom the
town has advanced a relocation assistance payment.
   (K)   In addition to the penalties set forth in division (F) above, interest
will accrue on the amount of relocation assistance paid by the city, town,
county or municipal corporation for which the property owner has not reimbursed
the city, town, county or municipal corporation. The rate of interest shall be
the rate determined by the Secretary of Revenue, commencing 30 days after the
date that the town first advanced relocation assistance funds to the displaced
tenants.
   (L)   If the town must initiate legal action in order to recover the amount
of relocation assistance payments that it has advanced to displaced tenants,
including any interest and penalties under divisions (J) and (K) above, the
town shall be entitled to attorneys' fees and costs arising from its legal
action.
   (M)   The government agency that has notified the landlord that a dwelling
will be condemned or will be unlawful to occupy shall notify the displaced
tenants that they may be entitled to relocation assistance under this section.
   (N)   No payment received by a displaced tenant under this section may be
considered as income for the purpose of determining the eligibility or extent
of eligibility of any person for assistance under any state law or for the
purposes of any tax imposed on the recipient.
(Ord. passed - -2007)
CHAPTER 152: SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Scope and exclusions
   
152.05   Mandatory standards for land-disturbing activity
   
152.06   Erosion and sedimentation control plans
   
152.07   Basic control objectives
   
152.08   Design and performance standards
   
152.09   Storm water outlet protection
   
152.10   Borrow and waste areas
   
152.11   Severability
Specific Provisions
   
152.20   Access and haul roads
   
152.21   Operations in lakes or natural watercourses
   
152.22   Responsibility for maintenance
   
152.23   Additional measures
   
152.24   Existing uncovered areas
   
152.25   Fees
   
152.26   Plan appeals
   
152.27   Inspections and investigations
   
152.28   Injunctive relief
   
152.29   Restoration after noncompliance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Flood damage prevention, see
Chapter 157
   Mountain and hillside development, see
Chapter 156
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be cited as the “Town of Columbus Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purposes of:
   (A)   Regulating certain land-disturbing activity to control accelerated
erosion and sedimentation in order to prevent the pollution of water and other
damage to lakes, watercourses, and other public and private property by
sedimentation; and
   (B)   Establishing procedures through which these purposes can be fulfilled.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCELERATED EROSION. Any increase over the rate of natural erosion as a
result of land-disturbing activity.
   ACT. The State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act of 1973, being G.S. §§
113A-50 et seq., and all rules and orders adopted pursuant to it.
   ADEQUATE EROSION CONTROL MEASURE, STRUCTURE OR DEVICE. One which controls
the soil material within the land area under responsible control of the person
conducting the land-disturbing activity.
   AFFILIATE. A person that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control of
another person.
   BEING CONDUCTED. A land-disturbing activity has been initiated and permanent
stabilization of the site has not been completed.
   BORROW. Fill material which is required for on-site construction and is
obtained from other locations.
   BUFFER ZONE. The strip of land adjacent to a lake or natural watercourse.
   COMMISSION. The State Sedimentation Control Commission.
   COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION OR DEVELOPMENT. That no further land-disturbing
activity is required on a phase of a project except that which is necessary for
establishing a permanent ground cover.
   DEPARTMENT. The State Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of the Division of Energy Mineral and Land Resources
of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   DISCHARGE POINT. The point at which storm water runoff leaves a tract of
land.
   DISTRICT. The Polk Soil and Water Conservation District created pursuant to
G.S. Ch. 139.
   ENERGY DISSIPATOR. A structure or a shaped channel section with mechanical
armoring placed at the outlet of pipes or conduits to receive and break down
the energy from high velocity flow.
   EROSION.  The wearing away of land surfaces by the action of wind, water,
gravity, or any combination thereof.
   GROUND COVER. Any natural vegetative growth or other material which renders
the soil surface stable against accelerated erosion.
   HIGH QUALITY WATERS. Those classified as such in 15A NCAC 2B.0101(e)(5)
General Procedures, which is incorporated herein by reference to include
further amendments pursuant to G.S. § 150B-14(c).
   HIGH QUALITY WATER (HQW) ZONES. Areas within one mile and draining to HQWs.
   LAKE OR NATURAL WATERCOURSE.  Any stream, river, brook, swamp, sound, bay,
creek, run, branch, canal, waterway, estuary, and any reservoir, lake, or pond,
natural or impounded in which sediment may be moved or carried in suspension,
and which could be damaged by accumulation of sediment.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.  Any use of the land by any person in residential,
industrial, education, institutional or commercial development, highway and
road construction and maintenance, that results in a change in the natural
cover or topography and that may cause or contribute to sedimentation.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  Any county, incorporated village, town, or city, or any
combination of counties, incorporated villages, towns, and cities, acting
through a joint program pursuant to the provisions of the Act.
   NATURAL EROSION. The wearing away of the earth’s surface by water, wind, or
other natural agents under natural environmental conditions undisturbed by
humans.
   PARENT. An affiliate that directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controls another person.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, joint venture,
public or private corporation, trust, estate, commission, board, public or
private institution, utility, cooperative, interstate body, or other legal
entity.
   PERSON CONDUCTING LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any person who may be held
responsible for violation unless expressly provided otherwise by this chapter,
the Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this chapter or the Act.
   PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE VIOLATION. The developer or other person who has
or holds himself or herself out as having financial or operation control over
the land-disturbing activity; or  The landowner or person in possession or
control of the land that has directly or indirectly allowed the land-disturbing
activity, or benefitted from it or failed to comply with a duty imposed by any
provision of this chapter, the Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this
chapter or the Act.
   PHASE OF GRADING.  One of two types of grading: rough or fine.
   PLAN. An erosion and sedimentation control plan.
   SEDIMENT. Solid particulate matter, both mineral and organic, that has been
or is being transported by water, air, gravity, or ice from its site of origin.
   SEDIMENTATION.  The process by which sediment resulting from accelerated
erosion has been or is being transported off the site of the land-disturbing
activity or into a lake or natural watercourse.
   SILTATION. Sediment resulting from accelerated erosion which is settleable
or removable by properly designed, constructed and maintained control measures;
and which has been transported from its point of origin within the site of a
land-disturbing activity; and which has been deposited, or is in suspension in
water.
   STORM DRAINAGE FACILITIES. The system of inlets, conduits, channels,
ditches, and appurtenances which serve to collect and convey storm water
through and from a given drainage area.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF.  The surface flow of water resulting from precipitation
in any form and occurring immediately after rainfall or melting.
   SUBSIDIARY. An affiliate that is directly, or indirectly through one or more
intermediaries, controlled by another person.
   TEN-YEAR STORM.  The storm water runoff resulting from precipitation of an
intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded, on the average, once in ten
years, and of a duration, which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff
for the watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
   TRACT.  All contiguous land and bodies of water being disturbed or to be
disturbed as a unit, regardless of ownership.
   TWENTY-FIVE YEAR STORM.  The storm water runoff resulting from precipitation
of an intensity expected to be equaled or exceeded on the average, once in 25
years, and of a duration which will produce the maximum peak rate of runoff for
the watershed of interest under average antecedent wetness conditions.
   UNCOVERED.  The removal of ground cover from, on or above the soil surface.
   UNDERTAKEN.  The initiating of any activity, or phase of activity, which
results or will result in a change in the ground cover or topography of a tract
of land.
   VELOCITY. The average velocity of flow through the cross section of the main
channel at the peak flow of the storm of interest. The cross section of the
main channel shall be that area defined by the geometry of the channel plus the
area of flow below the flood height defined by vertical lines at the main
channel banks. Overload flows are not to be included for the purpose of
computing velocity of flow.
   WASTE.  Surplus materials resulting from on-site land-disturbing activities
and being disposed of at other locations.
   WORKING DAYS.  Days exclusive of Saturday and Sunday during which weather
conditions or soil conditions permit land-disturbing activity to be undertaken.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.04 SCOPE AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   Geographical scope of regulated land-disturbing activity. This chapter
shall apply to land-disturbing activity within the territorial jurisdiction of
the town, and to the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town as allowed by
agreement between local governments, the extent of annexation or other
appropriate legal instrument or law.
   (B)   Exclusions from regulated land-disturbing activity. Notwithstanding
the general applicability of this chapter to all land-disturbing activity, this
chapter shall not apply to the following types of land-disturbing activity:
      (1)   An activity, including breeding and grazing of livestock,
undertaken on agricultural land for the production of plants and animals useful
to humans, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Forage and sod crops, grain and feed crops, tobacco, cotton, and
peanuts;
         (b)   Dairy animals and dairy products;
         (c)   Poultry and poultry products;
         (d)   Livestock, including beef cattle, sheep, swine, horses, ponies,
mules, and goats;
         (e)   Bees and apiary products; and
         (f)   Fur producing animals.
      (2)   An activity undertaken on forest land for the production and
harvesting of timber and timber products and conducted in accordance with best
management practices set out in Forest Practice Guidelines Related to Water
Quality, as adopted by the Department;
      (3)   An activity for which a permit is required, under the Mining Act of
1971, G.S. Ch. 74, Art. 7;
      (4)   A land-disturbing activity over which the state has exclusive
regulatory jurisdiction as provided in G.S. § 113A-56(a); and
      (5)   An activity, which is essential to protect human life during an
emergency.
   (C)   Plan approval requirement for land-disturbing activity. No person
shall undertake any land-disturbing activity without first obtaining a plan
approval therefor from the town.
   (D)   Protection of property. Persons conducting land-disturbing activity
shall take all reasonable measures to protect all public and private property
from damage caused by such activity.
   (E)   More restrictive rules shall apply. Whenever conflicts exist between
this chapter and federal, state, or other local laws, ordinances, or rules, the
more restrictive provision shall apply.
   (F)   Plan approval exceptions. Notwithstanding the general requirement to
obtain a plan approval prior to undertaking land-disturbing activity, a plan
approval shall not be required for land-disturbing activity that does not
exceed one acre in surface area. In determining the area, lands under one or
diverse ownership being developed as a unit will be aggregated.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.05 MANDATORY STANDARDS FOR LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.
   No land-disturbing activity subject to the control of this chapter shall be
undertaken except in accordance with the following mandatory standards.
   (A)   Buffer zone.
      (1)   Standard buffer. No land-disturbing activity during periods of
construction or improvement to land shall be permitted in proximity to a lake
or natural watercourse unless a buffer zone is provided along the margin of the
watercourse of sufficient width to confine visible siltation within the 25% of
the buffer zone nearest the land-disturbing activity.
         (a)   Projects on, over, or under water. This division (A) shall not
apply to a land-disturbing activity in connection with the construction of
facilities to be located on, over, or under a lake or natural watercourse.
         (b)    Buffer measuremen t. Unless otherwis e provided, the width of a
buffer zone is measure d horizont ally from the edge of the water to the
nearest edge of the disturbed area, with the 25% of the strip nearer the land-
dis turbing activity containing natural or artificial means of confining
visible siltation.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1267.jpg]
 
      (2)   Trout buffer. Waters that have been classified as trout waters by
the Environmental Management Commission shall have an undisturbed buffer zone
25 feet wide or of sufficient width to confine visible siltation within the 25%
of the buffer zone nearest the land-disturbing activity, whichever is greater.
Provided, however, that the Commission may approve plans which include land-
disturbing activity along trout waters when the duration of the disturbance
would be temporary and the extent of said disturbance would be minimal.
         (a)   Projects on, over, or under water. This division shall not apply
to a land-disturbing activity in connection with the construction of facilities
to be located on, over, or under a lake or natural watercourse.
         (b)   Trout buffer measurement. The 25-foot minimum width for an
undisturbed buffer zone adjacent to designated trout waters shall be measured
horizontally from the top of the bank to the nearest edge of the disturbed
area.
         (c)   Limit on land disturbance. Where a temporary and minimal
disturbance has been permitted as an exception to the trout buffer, land-
disturbing activities in the buffer zone adjacent to designated trout waters
shall be limited to a maximum of 10% of the total length of the buffer zone
within the tract to be disturbed such that there is not more than 100 linear
feet of disturbance in each 1,000 linear feet of buffer zone. Larger areas may
be disturbed with the written approval of the Director.
         (d)   Limit on temperature fluctuations. No land-disturbing activity
shall be undertaken within a buffer zone adjacent to designated trout waters
that will cause adverse temperature fluctuations in the trout waters, as set
forth in 15 NCAC 2B.0211 “Fresh Surface Water Classification and Standards.”
   (B)   Graded slopes and fills. The angle for graded slopes and fills shall
be no greater than the angle that can be retained by vegetative cover or other
adequate erosion control devices or structures. In any event, slopes left
exposed will, within 21 calendar days of completion of any phase of grading, be
planted or otherwise provided with temporary or permanent ground cover,
devices, or structures sufficient to restrain erosion. The angle for graded
slopes and fills must be demonstrated to be stable. Stable is the condition
where the soil remains in its original configuration, with or without
mechanical constraints.
   (C)   Fill material. Unless a permit from the Department’s Division of Waste
Management to operate a landfill is on file for the official site, acceptable
fill material shall be free of organic or other degradable materials, masonry,
concrete, and brick in sizes exceeding 12 inches, and any materials which would
cause the site to be regulated as a landfill by the State of North Carolina.
   (D)   Ground cover. Whenever land-disturbing activity that will disturb more
than one acre is undertaken on a tract, the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity shall install erosion and sedimentation control devices and
practices that are sufficient to retain the sediment generated by the land
disturbing activity within the boundaries of the tract during construction upon
and development of the tract, and shall plant or otherwise provide a permanent
ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion after completion of construction or
development. Except as provided in §
152.08(B)(5) below, provisions for a ground cover sufficient to restrain
erosion must be accomplished within 15 working days or 90 calendar days
following completion of construction or development, whichever period is
shorter.
   (E)   Prior plan approval. No person shall initiate any land-disturbing
activity that will disturb more than one acre on a tract, unless 30 or more
days prior to initiating the activity, a plan for the activity is filed with
and approved by the town. An erosion and sedimentation control plan may be
filed less than 30 days prior to initiation of a land-disturbing activity if
the plan is submitted under an approved express permit program. The land-
disturbing activity may be initiated and conducted in accordance with the plan
once the plan has been approved. The town shall forward to the Director of the
Division of Water Resources a copy of each plan for a land-disturbing activity
that involves the utilization of ditches for the purpose of de-watering or
lowering the water table of the tract.
   (F)   Conduct. The land-disturbing activity shall be conducted in accordance
with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.06 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLANS
   (A)   Plan submission. A plan shall be prepared for all land-disturbing
activities subject to this chapter whenever the proposed activity will disturb
more than one acre on a tract. At least 30 days prior to the commencement of
the proposed activity, the applicant shall file three copies of the plan with
the town and simultaneously one copy of the plan with the Polk County Soil and
Water Conservation District. The town shall forward to the Director of the
Division of Water Quality a copy of each plan for a land-disturbing activity
that involves the utilization of ditches for the purpose of de-watering or
lowering the water table of the tract.
   (B)   Financial responsibility and ownership. 
      (1)   Plans may be disapproved unless accompanied by an authorized
statement of financial responsibility and ownership. This statement shall be
signed by the person financially responsible for the land-disturbing activity
or his or her attorney in fact.
      (2)   The statement shall include the mailing and street addresses of the
principal place of business of:
         (a)   The person financially responsible;
         (b)   The owner of the land; and
         (c)   Any registered agents.
      (3)   If the person financially responsible is not a resident of the
State of North Carolina, a State of North Carolina agent must be designated in
the statement for the purpose of receiving notice of compliance or non-
compliance with the plan, the Act, this chapter, or rules or orders adopted or
issued pursuant to this chapter.
      (4)   If the applicant is not the owner of the land to be disturbed and
the anticipated land-disturbing activity involves the construction of utility
lines for the provision of water, sewer, gas, telecommunications, or electrical
service, the draft erosion and sedimentation control plan may be submitted
without the written consent of the owner of the land, so long as the owner of
the land has been provided prior notice of the project.
      (5)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(2) or (J) of this section, if
the applicant is not the owner of the land to be disturbed, the draft erosion
and sedimentation control plan must include the owner’s written consent for the
applicant to submit a draft erosion and sedimentation control plan and to
conduct the anticipated land-disturbing activity.
   (C)   Environmental policy act document. Any plan submitted for a land-
disturbing activity for which an environmental document is required by the
State Environment Policy Act (G.S. § 113A-1 et seq.) shall be deemed incomplete
until a complete environmental document is available for review. The town shall
promptly notify the person submitting the plan that the 30-day time limit for
review of the plan pursuant to this chapter shall not begin until a complete
environmental document is available for review.
   (D)   Content. The plan required by this section shall contain architectural
and engineering drawings, maps, assumptions, calculations, and narrative
statements as needed to adequately describe the proposed development of the
tract and the measures planned to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
Plan content may vary to meet the needs of specific site requirements. Detailed
guidelines for plan preparation may be obtained from the town, on request.
   (E)   Soil and water conservation district comments. The district shall
review the plan and submit any comments and recommendations to the town, within
20 days after the district received the plan, or within any shorter period of
time as may be agreed upon by the district and the town. Failure of the
district to submit its comments and recommendations within 20 days or within
any agreed-upon shorter period of time shall not delay final action on the
plan.
   (F)   Time line for decisions on plans. The town will review each complete
plan submitted to it and within 30 days of receipt thereof will notify the
person submitting the plan that it has been approved, approved with
modifications, approved with performance reservations, or disapproved. Failure
to approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove a complete plan within 30
days of receipt shall be deemed approval. The town will review each revised
plan submitted to them and within 15 days of receipt thereof will notify the
person submitting the plan that it has been approved, approved with
modifications, approved with performance reservations, or disapproved. Failure
to approve, approve with modifications, or disapprove a revised plan within 15
days of receipt shall be deemed approval.
   (G)   Approval. The town shall only approve a plan upon determining that it
complies with all applicable state and local regulations for erosion and
sedimentation control. Approval assumes the applicant’s compliance with the
federal and state water quality laws, regulations, and rules. The town shall
condition approval of plans upon the applicant’s compliance with federal and
state water quality laws, regulations, and rules. The town may establish an
expiration date, not to exceed three years, for plans approved under this
chapter.
   (H)   Disapproval for content. The town shall disapprove a plan or draft
plan based on its content. A disapproval based upon a plan’s content must
specifically state in writing the reasons for disapproval.
   (I)   Other disapprovals.
      (1)   The town may disapprove an erosion and sedimentation control plan
if implementation of the plan would result in a violation of the rules adopted
by the Environmental Management Commission to protect riparian buffers along
surface waters. The town may disapprove an erosion and sedimentation control
plan or disapprove a transfer of a plan under division (J) of the section upon
finding that an applicant or a parent, subsidiary, or other affiliate of the
applicant:
         (a)   Is conducting or has conducted land-disturbing activity without
an approved plan, or has received notice of violation of a plan previously
approved by the Commission or a local government pursuant to this section and
has not complied with the notice within the time specified in the notice;
         (b)   Has failed to pay a civil penalty assessed pursuant to the Act
or a local ordinance adopted pursuant to this section by the time the payment
is due;
         (c)   Has been convicted of a misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 113A-64
(b) or any criminal provision of a local ordinance adopted pursuant to this
section; or
         (d)   Has failed to substantially comply with state rules or local
ordinances and regulations adopted pursuant to this Article.
      (2)   In the event that an erosion and sedimentation control plan or a
transfer of a plan is disapproved by the town pursuant to division (I)(1) of
this section, the local government shall so notify the Director of the Division
of Energy, Mineral, and Land Resources within ten days of the disapproval. The
town shall advise the applicant or the proposed transferee and the Director in
writing as to the specific reasons that the plan was disapproved.
Notwithstanding the provisions of §
152.26(A) of this chapter, the applicant may appeal the local government’s
disapproval of the plan directly to the Commission. For purposes of this
division (I)(2), an applicant’s record or the proposed transferee’s record may
be considered for only the two years prior to the application date.
   (J)   The town administering an erosion and sedimentation control program
may transfer an erosion and sedimentation control plan approved pursuant to
this section without the consent of the plan holder to a successor-owner of the
property on which the permitted activity is occurring or will occur as provided
in this division (J).
      (1)   The town may transfer a plan if all of the following conditions are
met.
         (a)   The successor-owner of the property submits to the local
government a written request for the transfer of the plan and an authorized
statement of financial responsibility and ownership.
         (b)   The town finds all of the following:
            1.   The plan holder is one of the following:
               a.   A natural person who is deceased;
               b.   A partnership, limited liability corporation, corporation,
or any other business association that has been dissolved;
               c.   A person who has been lawfully and finally divested of
title to the property on which the permitted activity is occurring or will
occur; or
               d.   A person who has sold the property on which the permitted
activity is occurring or will occur.
            2.   The successor-owner holds title to the property on which the
permitted activity is occurring or will occur;
            3.   The successor-owner is the sole claimant of the right to
engage in the permitted activity; and
            4.   There will be no substantial change in the permitted activity.
      (2)   The plan holder shall comply with all terms and conditions of the
plan until such time as the plan is transferred.
      (3)   The successor-owner shall comply with all terms and conditions of
the plan once the plan has been transferred.
      (4)   Notwithstanding changes to law made after the original issuance of
the plan, the town may not impose new or different terms and conditions in the
plan without the prior express consent of the successor-owner. Nothing in this
division shall prevent the town from requiring a revised plan pursuant to G.S.
§ 113A-54.1(b).
   (K)   Notice of activity initiation. No person may initiate a land-
disturbing activity before notifying the agency that issued the plan approval
of the date that land-disturbing activity will begin.
   (L)   Preconstruction conference. When deemed necessary by the approving
authority a preconstruction conference may be required.
   (M)   Display of plan approval. A plan approval issued under this section
shall be prominently displayed until all construction is complete, all
permanent sedimentation and erosion control measures are installed and the site
has been stabilized. A copy of the approved plan shall be kept on file at the
job site.
   (N)   Required revisions. After approving a plan, if the town, either upon
review of the plan or on inspection of the job site, determines that a
significant risk of accelerated erosion or off-site sedimentation exists, the
town shall require a revised plan. Pending the preparation of the revised plan,
work shall cease or shall continue under conditions outlined by the appropriate
authority. If following commencement of a land-disturbing activity pursuant to
an approved plan, the town determines that the plan is inadequate to meet the
requirements of this chapter, the town may require any revision of the plan
that is necessary to comply with this chapter.
   (O)   Amendment to a plan. Applications for amendment of a plan in written
and/or graphic form may be made at any time under the same conditions as the
original application. Until such time as said amendment is approved by the
town, the land-disturbing activity shall not proceed except in accordance with
the plan as originally approved.
   (P)   Failure to file a plan. Any person engaged in land-disturbing activity
who fails to file a plan in accordance with this chapter, or who conducts a
land-disturbing activity except in accordance with provisions of an approved
plan shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
   (Q)   Self-inspection. The landowner, the financially responsible party, or
the landowner’s or the financially responsible party’s agent shall perform an
inspection of the area covered by the plan after each phase of the plan has
been completed and after establishment of temporary ground cover in accordance
with G.S. § 113A-57(2). The person who performs the inspection shall maintain
and make available a record of the inspection at the site of the land-
disturbing activity. The record shall set out any significant deviation from
the approved erosion control plan, identify any measures that may be required
to correct the deviation, and document the completion of those measures. The
record shall be maintained until permanent ground cover has been established as
required by the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan. The
inspections required by this division (Q) shall be in addition to inspections
required by G.S. § 113A-61.1. Where inspections are required by §
152.06(Q) of this chapter and G.S. § 113A-54.1(e), the following apply.
      (1)   The person who performs the inspection shall make a record of the
site inspection by documenting the following items:
         (a)   All of the erosion and sedimentation control measures,
practices, and devices, as called for in a construction sequence consistent
with the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan, including but not
limited to sedimentation control basins, sedimentation traps, sedimentation
ponds, rock dams, temporary diversions, temporary slope drains, rock check
dams, sediment fence or barriers, all forms of inlet protection, storm drainage
facilities, energy dissipaters, and stabilization methods of open channels,
have initially been installed and do not significantly deviate (as defined in
division (Q)(1)(e) of this Rule) from the locations, dimensions and relative
elevations shown on the approved erosion and sedimentation plan. Such
documentation shall be accomplished by initialing and dating each measure or
practice shown on a copy of the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan
or by completing, dating and signing an inspection report that lists each
measure, practice, or device shown on the approved erosion and sedimentation
control plan. This documentation is required only upon the initial installation
of the erosion and sedimentation control measures, practices, and devices as
set forth by the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or if the
measures, practices, and devices are modified after initial installation;
         (b)   The completion of any phase of grading for all graded slopes and
fills shown on the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan,
specifically noting the location and condition of the graded slopes and fills.
Such documentation shall be accomplished by initialing and dating a copy of the
approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or by completing, dating, and
signing an inspection report;
         (c)   The location of temporary or permanent ground cover, and that
the installation of the ground cover does not significantly deviate (as defined
in division (Q)(l)(e) of this rule) from the approved erosion and sedimentation
control plan. Such documentation shall be accomplished by initialing and dating
a copy of the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan or by completing,
dating, and signing an inspection report;
         (d)   That maintenance and repair requirements for all temporary and
permanent erosion and sedimentation control measures, practices, and devices
have been performed. Such documentation shall be accomplished by completing,
dating, and signing an inspection report (the general storm water permit
monitoring form may be used to verify the maintenance and repair requirements);
and
         (e)   Any significant deviations from the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan, corrective actions required to correct the
deviation and completion of the corrective actions. Such documentation shall be
accomplished by initialing and dating a copy of the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan or by completing, dating, and signing an inspection
report. A significant deviation means an omission, alteration, or relocation of
an erosion or sedimentation control measure that prevents the measure from
performing as intended.
      (2)   The documentation, whether on a copy of the approved erosion and
sedimentation control plan or an inspection report, shall include the name,
address, affiliation, telephone number, and signature of the person conducting
the inspection and the date of the inspection. Any relevant licenses and
certifications may also be included. Any documentation of inspections that
occur on a copy of the approved erosion and sedimentation control plan shall
occur on a single copy of the plan and that plan shall be made available on the
site. Any inspection reports shall also be made available on the site.
      (3)   The inspection shall be performed during or after each of the
following phases of a plan:
         (a)   Installation of perimeter erosion and sediment control measures;
         (b)   Clearing and grubbing of existing ground cover;
         (c)   Completion of any phase of grading of slopes or fills that
requires provision of temporary or permanent ground cover pursuant to G.S. §
113A-57(2);
         (d)   Completion of storm drainage facilities;
         (e)   Completion of construction or development; and
         (f)   Quarterly until the establishment of permanent ground cover
sufficient to restrain erosion or until the financially responsible party has
conveyed ownership or control of the tract of land for which the erosion and
sedimentation control plan has been approved and the agency that approved the
plan has been notified. If the financially responsible party has conveyed
ownership or control of the tract of land for which the erosion and
sedimentation control plan has been approved, the new owner or person in
control shall conduct and document inspections quarterly until the
establishment of permanent ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion.
   (R)   Ordinance administration. Except where duties under this chapter are
expressly reserved to the Town Council, all duties of the town under this
chapter shall be performed by the Town Manager or his or her designee(s).
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.07 BASIC CONTROL OBJECTIVES.
   An erosion and sedimentation control plan may be disapproved if the plan
fails to address the following control objectives:
   (A)   Identify critical areas. On-site areas, which are subject to severe
erosion, and off-site areas which are especially vulnerable to damage from
erosion and/or sedimentation, are to be identified and receive special
attention;
   (B)   Limit time of exposure. All land-disturbing activities are to be
planned and conducted to limit exposure to the shortest feasible time;
   (C)   Limit exposed areas. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned and
conducted to minimize the size of the area to be exposed at any one time;
   (D)   Control surface water. Surface water runoff originating upgrade of
exposed areas should be controlled to reduce erosion and sediment loss during
the period of exposure;
   (E)   Control sedimentation. All land-disturbing activity is to be planned
and conducted so as to prevent off-site sedimentation damage; and
   (F)   Manage storm water runoff. When the increase in the velocity of storm
water runoff resulting from a land-disturbing activity is sufficient to cause
accelerated erosion of the receiving watercourse, a plan is to include measures
to control the velocity to the point of discharge so as to minimize accelerated
erosion of the site and increased sedimentation of the stream.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.08 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
152.08(B)(2) below, erosion and sedimentation control measures, structures, and
devices shall be planned, designed, and constructed to provide protection from
the calculated maximum peak rate of runoff from the ten-year storm. Runoff
rates shall be calculated using the procedures in the USDA, Soil Conservation
Service’s "National Engineering Field Manual for Conservation Practices", or
other acceptable calculation procedures.
   (B)    In High Quality Water (HQW) zones the following design standards
shall apply.
      (1)   Limit on uncovered area. Uncovered areas in HQW zones shall be
limited at any time to a maximum total area of 20 acres within the boundaries
of the tract. Only the portion of the land-disturbing activity within a HQW
zone shall be governed by this section. Larger areas may be uncovered within
the boundaries of the tract with the written approval of the Director.
      (2)   Maximum peak rate of runoff protection. Erosion and sedimentation
control measures, structures, and devices within HQW zones shall be planned,
designed, and constructed to provide protection from the runoff of the 25-year
storm which produces the maximum peak rate of runoff as calculated according to
procedures in the United States Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation
Service’s "National Engineering Field Manual for Conservation Practices" or
according to procedures adopted by any other agency of this state or the United
States or any generally recognized organization or association.
      (3)   Settling efficiency. Sediment basins within HQW zones shall be
designed and constructed such that the basin will have a settling efficiency of
at least 70% for the 40 micron (0.04 millimeter) size soil particle transported
into the basin by the runoff of that two year storm which produces the maximum
peak rate of runoff as calculated according to procedures in the United States
Department of Agriculture Soil Conservation Service’s "National Engineering
Field Manual for Conservation Practices" or according to procedures adopted by
any other agency of this state or the United States or any generally recognized
organization or association.
      (4)   Grade. Newly constructed open channels in HQW zones shall be
designed and constructed with side slopes no steeper than two horizontal to one
vertical (2:1) if a vegetative cover is used for stabilization unless soil
conditions permit a steeper slope or where the slopes are stabilized by using
mechanical devices, structural devices or other acceptable ditch liners. In any
event, the angle for side slopes shall be sufficient to restrain accelerated
erosion
      (5)   Ground cover. Ground cover sufficient to restrain erosion must be
provided for any portion of a land-disturbing activity in a HQW zone within 15
working days or 60 calendar days following completion of construction or
development, whichever period is shorter.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.09 STORM WATER OUTLET PROTECTION.
   (A)   Intent. Stream banks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity.
   (B)   Performance standard. 
      (1)   Persons shall conduct land-disturbing activity so that the post
construction velocity of the ten year storm runoff in the receiving watercourse
to the discharge point does not exceed the greater of:
         (a)   The velocity established by the Maximum Permissible Velocities
Table set out below; or
         (b)   The velocity of the ten-year storm runoff in the receiving
watercourse prior to development.
      (2)   If condition (B)(1)(a) or (b) above cannot be met, then the
receiving watercourse to and including the discharge point shall be designed
and constructed to withstand the expected velocity anywhere the velocity
exceeds the “prior to development” velocity by 10%.
      (3)   The following is a table for maximum permissible velocity for storm
water discharges in feet per second (F.P.S.) and meters per second (M.P.S.):
Maximum Permissible Velocities Table
Material F.P.S. M.P.S.
Maximum Permissible Velocities Table
Material                               F.P.S. M.P.S.
Fine sand (noncolloidal)               2.5    .8
Sandy loam (noncolloidal)              2.5    .8
Silt loam (noncolloidal)               3.0    .9
Ordinary firm loam                     3.5    1.1
Fine gravel                            5.0    1.5
Stiff clay (very colloidal)            5.0    1.5
Graded, loam to cobbles (noncolloidal) 5.0    1.7
Graded, silt to cobbles (colloidal)    5.5    1.7
Alluvial silts (noncolloidal)          3.5    1.1
Alluvial silts (colloidal)             5.0    1.5
Coarse gravel (noncolloidal)           6.0    1.8
Cobbles and shingles                   5.5    1.7
Shales and hard pans                   6.0    1.8
Source - Adapted from recommendations by Special Committee on Irrigation
Research, American Society of Civil Engineers, 1926, for channels with
straight alignment. For sinuous channels, multiply allowable velocity by 0.95
for slightly sinuous, by 0.9 for moderately sinuous channels, and by 0.8 for
highly sinuous channels.
 
   (C)   Acceptable management measures. Measures applied alone or in
combination to satisfy the intent of this section are acceptable if there are
no objectionable secondary consequences. The town recognizes that the
management of storm water runoff to minimize or control downstream channel and
bank erosion is a developing technology. Innovative techniques and ideas will
be considered and may be used when shown to have the potential to produce
successful results. Some alternatives, while not exhaustive, are to:
      (1)   Avoid increases in surface runoff volume and velocity by including
measures to promote infiltration to compensate for increased runoff from areas
rendered impervious;
      (2)   Avoid increases in storm water discharge velocities by using
vegetated or roughened swales and waterways in place of closed drains and high
velocity paved sections;
      (3)   Provide energy dissipaters at outlets of storm drainage facilities
to reduce flow velocities to the point of discharge;
      (4)   Protect watercourses subject to accelerated erosion by improving
cross sections and/or providing erosion-resistant lining; and
      (5)   Upgrade or replace the receiving device, structure, or watercourse
such that it will receive and conduct the flow to a point where it is no longer
subject to degradation from the increased rate of flow or increased velocity.
   (D)   Exceptions. This rule shall not apply where it can be demonstrated to
the town that storm water discharge velocities will not create an erosion
problem in the receiving watercourse.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.10 BORROW AND WASTE AREAS.
   When the person conducting the land-disturbing activity is also the person
conducting the borrow or waste disposal activity, areas from which borrow is
obtained and which are not regulated by the provisions of the Mining Act of
1971, and waste areas for surplus materials other than landfills regulated by
the Department's Division of Waste Management shall be considered as part of
the land-disturbing activity where the borrow material is being used or from
which the waste material originated. When the person conducting the land-
disturbing activity is not the person obtaining the borrow and/or disposing of
the waste, these areas shall be considered a separate land-disturbing activity.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 152.20 ACCESS AND HAUL ROADS.
   Temporary access and haul roads, other than public roads, constructed or
used in connection with any land-disturbing activity shall be considered a part
of the activity.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.21 OPERATIONS IN LAKES OR NATURAL WATERCOURSES.
   Land disturbing activity in connection with construction in, on, over, or
under a lake or natural watercourse shall minimize the extent and duration of
disruption of the stream channel. Where relocation of a stream forms an
essential part of the proposed activity, the relocation shall minimize
unnecessary changes in the stream flow characteristics.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.22 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   During the development of a site, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity shall install and maintain all temporary and permanent erosion and
sedimentation control measures as required by the approved plan or any
provision of this chapter, the Act, or any order adopted pursuant to this
chapter or the Act. After site development, the landowner or person in
possession or control of the land shall install and/or maintain all necessary
permanent erosion and sediment control measures, except those measures
installed within a road or street right-of-way or easement accepted for
maintenance by a governmental agency.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.23 ADDITIONAL MEASURES.
   Whenever the town determines that significant erosion and sedimentation is
occurring as a result of land-disturbing activity, despite application and
maintenance of protective practices, the person conducting the land-disturbing
activity will be required to and shall take additional protective action.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.24 EXISTING UNCOVERED AREAS.
   (A)   All uncovered areas existing on the effective date of this chapter
which resulted from land-disturbing activity exceeding one acre, are subject to
continued accelerated erosion, and are causing off-site damage from
sedimentation, shall be provided with a ground cover or other protective
measures, structures or devices sufficient to restrain accelerated erosion and
control off-site sedimentation.
   (B)   The town shall serve upon the landowner or other person in possession
or control of the land a written notice to comply with the Act, this chapter, a
rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to the Act by the Commission or by the
town. The notice to comply shall be sent by registered or certified mail,
return receipt requested, or other means provided in G.S. §1A-1, Rule 4. The
notice will set forth the measures needed to comply and will state the time
within which such measures must be completed. In determining the measures
required and the time allowed for compliance, the authority serving notice
shall take into consideration the economic feasibility, technology and quantity
of work required, and shall set reasonable and attainable time limits of
compliance.
   (C)   The town reserves the right to require preparation and approval of a
plan in any instance where extensive control measures are required.
   (D)   This rule shall not require ground cover on cleared land forming the
future basin of a planned reservoir.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.25 FEES.
   (A)   The town may establish a fee schedule for the review and approval of
plans.
   (B)   In establishing the fee schedule, the Town Council shall consider the
administrative and personnel costs incurred for reviewing the plans and for
related compliance activities.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.26 PLAN APPEALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
152.26 (B) below, the appeal of a disapproval or approval with modifications of
a plan shall be governed by the following provisions.
      (1)   The disapproval or modification of any proposed plan by the town
shall entitle the person submitting the plan to a hearing if the person submits
written demand for a hearing within 15 days after receipt of written notice of
disapproval or modifications. A hearing held pursuant to this section shall be
conducted by the Town Manager within 30 days after the date of the appeal or
request for a hearing. The Town Manager will render his or her decision within
15 days after the date of the hearing on any plan.
      (2)   If the Town Manager upholds the disapproval or modification of a
proposed plan following the hearing, the person submitting the plan shall then
be entitled to appeal the Town Manager’s decision to the Town Board of
Adjustments if the person submits written demand for a public hearing within 15
days after receipt of written notice of disapproval or modifications. A hearing
held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by the Board of Adjustments
within 30 days after the date of the appeal or request for a hearing. The Board
of Adjustments will render its decision within 15 days after the date of the
hearing on any plan.
      (3)   If the Board of Adjustments upholds the disapproval or modification
of a proposed plan following the hearing, the person submitting the plan shall
then be entitled to appeal the Board of Adjustments' decision to the Town
Council if the person submits written demand for a public hearing within 15
days after receipt of written notice of disapproval or modifications. A hearing
held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by the Town Council within 30
days after the date of the appeal or request for a hearing. The Town Council
will render its decision within 15 days after the date of the hearing on any
plan.
      (4)   If the Town Council upholds the disapproval or modification of a
proposed plan following the hearing, the person submitting the plan shall then
be entitled to appeal the Town Council's decision to the Commission as provided
in G.S. § 113A-61(c) and 15A NCAC 4B.0118(d).
   (B)    In the event that a plan is disapproved pursuant to §
152.06(I) above, the applicant may appeal the town's disapproval of the plan
directly to the Commission.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.27 INSPECTIONS AND INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   Inspection. Agents, officials, or other qualified persons authorized
by the town, will periodically inspect land-disturbing activities to ensure
compliance with the Act, this chapter, or rules or orders adopted or issued
pursuant to this chapter, and to determine whether the measures required in the
plan are effective in controlling erosion and sedimentation resulting from
land-disturbing activity. Notice of the right to inspect shall be included in
the certificate of approval of each plan.
   (B)   Willful resistance, delay, or obstruction. No person shall willfully
resist, delay, or obstruct an authorized representative, employee or agent of
the town, while that person is inspecting or attempting to inspect a land-
disturbing activity under this section.
   (C)   Notice of violation. If the town determines that a person engaged in
land-disturbing activity has failed to comply with the Act, this chapter, or
rules or orders adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter, a notice of
violation shall be served upon that person. The notice may be served by any
means authorized under G.S. §1A-1, Rule 4. The notice shall specify a date, by
which the person must comply with the Act, or this chapter, or rules, or orders
adopted pursuant to this chapter, and inform the person of the actions that
need to be taken to comply with the Act, this chapter, or rules or orders
adopted pursuant to this chapter. Any person who fails to comply within the
time specified is subject to additional civil and criminal penalties for a
continuing violation as provided in G.S. § 113A-64 and this chapter.
   (D)   Investigation. The town shall have the power to conduct such
investigation as it may reasonably deem necessary to carry out its duties as
prescribed in this chapter, and for this purpose to enter at reasonable times
upon any property, public or private, for the purpose of investigating and
inspecting the sites of any land-disturbing activity.
   (E)   Statements and reports. The town shall also have the power to require
written statements, or filing of reports under oath, with respect to pertinent
questions relating to land-disturbing activity.
   (F)   Additional protective action. If through inspections the town
determines that significant erosion and sedimentation is occurring as a result
of land disturbing activity, despite application and maintenance of all
protective practices required by the approved soil erosion and sedimentation
control plan, the person conducting the land disturbing activity will be
required to take additional protective action.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.28 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Violation of local program. Whenever the governing body has reasonable
cause to believe that any person is violating or threatening to violate any
ordinance, rule, regulation, or order adopted or issued by the town or any
term, condition, or provision of an approved plan, it may, either before or
after the institution of any other action or proceeding authorized by this
chapter, institute a civil action in the name of the town for injunctive relief
to restrain the violation or threatened violation. The action shall be brought
in the superior court of the county in which the violation is occurring or is
threatened.
   (B)   Abatement of violation. Upon determination by a court that an alleged
violation is occurring or is threatened, the court shall enter any order or
judgment that is necessary to abate the violation, to ensure that restoration
is performed, or to prevent the threatened violation. The institution of an
action for injunctive relief under this section shall not relieve any party to
the proceedings from any civil or criminal penalty prescribed for violations of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
§ 152.29 RESTORATION AFTER NON-COMPLIANCE.
   The town may require a person who engaged in a land-disturbing activity and
failed to retain sediment generated by the activity, as required by G.S. §
113A-57 (3), to restore the waters and land affected by the failure so as to
minimize the detrimental effects of the resulting pollution by sedimentation.
This authority is in addition to any other civil or criminal penalty or
injunctive relief authorized under this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015) Penalty,
see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Civil penalty for a violation. Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
chapter, or who initiates or continues a land-disturbing activity for which a
plan is required except in accordance with the terms, conditions and provisions
of an approved plan, is subject to a civil penalty. The maximum civil penalty
amount that the town may assess per violation is $5,000. A civil penalty may be
assessed from the date of the violation. Each day of a continuing violation
shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Civil penalty assessment factors.  The Town Manager or his or her
designee shall determine the amount of the civil penalty based upon the
following factors:
         (a)   The degree and extent of harm caused by the violation;
         (b)   The cost of rectifying the damage;
         (c)   The amount of money the violator saved by noncompliance;
         (d)   Whether the violation was committed willfully; and
         (e)   The prior record of the violator in complying of failing to
comply with this chapter.
      (3)   Notice of civil penalty assessment. The Town Manager or his or her
designee shall provide notice of the civil penalty amount and basis for
assessment to the person assessed. The notice of assessment shall be served by
any means authorized under G.S. § IA-1, Rule 4. A notice of assessment by the
town shall direct the violator to either pay the assessment or contest the
assessment within 30 days by filing a petition for hearing with the Town
Manager. A hearing held pursuant to this section shall be conducted by the Town
Manager within 30 days after the date of the appeal or request for a hearing.
The Town Manager will render his or her decision within 15 days after the date
of the hearing on the assessment.
         (a)   If the Town Manager upholds or modifies the assessment following
the hearing, the person submitting the plan shall then be entitled to appeal
the Town Manager’s decision to the Town Board of Adjustments if the person
submits written demand for a public hearing within 15 days after receipt of
written notice of the Town Manager’s decision. A hearing held pursuant to this
section shall be conducted by the Board of Adjustments within 30 days after the
date of the appeal or request for a hearing. The Board of Adjustments will
render its decision within 15 days after the date of the hearing on the
assessment.
         (b)   If the Board of Adjustments upholds or modifies the assessment,
the person submitting the plan shall then be entitled to appeal the Board of
Adjustments’ decision to the Town Council if the person submits written demand
for a public hearing within 15 days after receipt of written notice of the
Board of Adjustments’ decision. A hearing held pursuant to this section shall
be conducted by the Town Council within 30 days after the date of the appeal or
request for a hearing. The Town Council will render its decision within 15 days
after the date of the hearing on the assessment.
         (c)   Appeal from the decision of the Town Council shall be to the
Superior Court of the county where the violation occurred. The appeal must be
made within 30 days of the decision of the Town Council.
      (4)   Collection. If payment is not received within 30 days after it is
due, the town may institute a civil action to recover the amount of the
assessment. The civil action may be brought in the Superior Court of the county
where the violation occurred, or the violator’s residence or principal place of
business is located. Those civil actions must be filed within three years of
the date the assessment was due. An assessment that is not contested is due
when the violator is served with a notice of assessment. An assessment that is
contested is due at the conclusion of the administrative and judicial review of
the assessment.
      (5)   Credit of civil penalties. The clear proceeds of civil penalties
collected by the town under this division shall be remitted to the Civil
Penalty and Forfeiture Fund in accordance with G.S. § 115C-457.2.
   (B)   Criminal penalties. Any person who knowingly or willfully violates any
provision of this chapter, or rule or order adopted or issued pursuant to this
chapter, or who knowingly or willfully initiates or continues a land-disturbing
activity for which a plan is required except in accordance with the terms,
conditions, and provisions of an approved plan, shall be guilty of a Class 2
misdemeanor which may include a fine not to exceed $5,000 as provided in G.S. §
113A-64.
(Ord. 2007-11, passed 10-16-2008; Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 1-8-2015)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General and Legal Provisions
   
153.01   Title and purpose
   
153.02   Jurisdiction and authority
   
153.03   Word interpretation
   
153.04   Acronyms
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Legal provisions; subdivision plat approval
   
153.07   Existing and future ordinances
   
153.08   Subdivision exceptions
   
153.09   Appeals
   
153.10   Amendments
   
153.11   Abrogation
   
153.12   Administration
   
153.13   Vested rights
   
153.14   Severability
Subdivision Types and Review Procedures
   
153.25   Purpose
   
153.26   Subdivision defined
   
153.27   Subdivision types
   
153.28   Pre-application meeting
   
153.29   Recombinations and subdivision exemption plats
   
153.30   Two-lot, family and special subdivisions
   
153.31   Minor subdivisions
   
153.32   Major subdivisions
   
153.33   Performance guarantees
Subdivision Plan Requirements
   
153.45   Purpose
   
153.46   Sketch plans for pre-application meetings
   
153.47   Master plans for phased major subdivisions
   
153.48   Preliminary plats for minor and major subdivisions
   
153.49   Final plats for all subdivisions
Subdivision Design Standards
   
153.60   Purpose
   
153.61   General provisions
   
153.62   Environmental assessment and suitability of land
   
153.63   Lots
   
153.64   Cluster developments
   
153.65   Open space
   
153.66   Easements
   
153.67   General provisions for road design
   
153.68   Public road standards
   
153.69   Private road standards
   
153.70   Connection to public water and sewer
   
153.71   Private water and sewer
   
153.72   Utilities
   
153.73   Storm water drainage facilities
   
153.74   Fire protection
   
153.75   Erosion and sedimentation control
   
153.76   Surveying
   
153.77   Construction procedures
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL AND LEGAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the
"Subdivision Ordinance for Town of Columbus, North Carolina" and may be
referred to as the "Subdivision Ordinance".
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is:
      (1)   To establish standards and procedures for the subdivision and
resubdivision of land within the territorial jurisdiction of the town;
      (2)   To provide for the orderly and harmonious growth and development of
the town;
      (3)   To coordinate streets and roads within proposed subdivisions with
existing and planned streets and highways, and with other public facilities;
      (4)   To dedicate or reserve recreation or open space areas serving
residents of the immediate neighborhood within the subdivision and to dedicate
or reserve rights-of-way or easements for streets and utilities;
      (5)   To distribute population and traffic in a manner that will avoid
congestion and overcrowding and will create conditions essential to public
health, safety and general welfare;
      (6)   To further facilitate adequate provisions of water, sewerage, parks
and schools; and
      (7)   To facilitate the further resubdivision of larger tracts into
smaller parcels of land.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.02 JURISDICTION AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. This chapter, the regulations and the procedures
contained herein shall apply to and govern each and every lot, parcel or tract
of land within the town.
   (B)   Authority. The Town Council hereby adopts this chapter pursuant to the
authority and provisions conferred by G.S. Ch. 160A-360.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.03 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words shall be interpreted as
follows.
   (A)   Words in the present tense include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular number include the plural, and words used
in the plural number include the singular, unless the natural construction of
the wording indicates otherwise.
   (C)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, corporation, trust and
company as well as an individual.
   (D)   The words USED FOR shall include the meaning DESIGNED FOR.
   (E)   The word STRUCTURE shall include the word BUILDING.
   (F)   The word LOT shall include the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   (G)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not merely directory.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.04 ACRONYMS.
   Below is a list of acronyms (other than zoning districts) and their meanings
found throughout the chapter.
   BFE. Base flood elevation.
   DUA. Dwelling units per acre.
   G.S. North Carolina General Statute.
   HOA. Homeowners Association.
   N.C. North Carolina.
   NCDENR. North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources.
   NCDOT or DOT. North Carolina Department of Transportation.
   ROW. Right-of-way.
   S.R. Secondary road in the North Carolina secondary road system.
   U.S. United States of America.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person, firm or corporation submitting an application for
development or subdivision and upon whom final responsibility for ensuring
compliance with the terms and conditions of the ordinance rests.
   BUFFER EASEMENT. An easement not less than ten feet in width adjacent to a
major street, or between dissimilar uses of land which may be required by the
Planning Board for new developments.
   DEDICATION. A gift, by the owner, of a right of use of land for a specified
purpose or purposes. Because a transfer of property rights is entailed,
dedication must be made by written instrument, and is completed with an
acceptance.
   DISCLOSURE STATEMENT. A separate and distinct document prepared by the
applicant and approved by the Planning Board which fully and completely
discloses the status of any street or road upon which the house, lot or parcel
fronts. A copy of the DISCLOSURE STATEMENT shall be provided to the purchaser
of the subject real estate.
   EASEMENT (RIGHT-OF-WAY). A grant by the property owner of a strip of land
for a specified purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   EXISTING LOT (EXISTING LOT OF RECORD). A portion of land, which is a part of
a subdivision or a larger tract of land, a plat of which has been recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds of Polk County prior to the adoption of
this chapter or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which
has been so recorded prior to the adoption of this chapter.
   FINAL PLAT. A plat which conforms with the provisions of this chapter, the
mapping requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and The Manual of Practice for
Land Surveying in North Carolina. The FINAL PLAT shall be prepared in accord
with this chapter and in such a fashion as to be suitable for recording by the
Polk County Register of Deeds.
   LAND DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL. Any plan indicating an owner or applicant's
intentions toward the development of a tract of land, i.e., master plan,
preliminary plan, research concept.
   LOCAL STREET. A road which serves primarily to provide access to adjacent
land, over relatively short distances.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer of ownership, or for development, or both. The word LOT
includes the words PLOT or PARCEL.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two or more streets.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a
street.
   LOT, PANHANDLE. A lot other than one having access on a cul-de-sac, which
contains a narrow strip providing street access. Also known as a FLAG LOT.
   LOT, SINGLE-TIER. A lot which backs upon a limited access highway, a
railroad, a physical barrier or another type of land use and to which access
from the rear is usually prohibited.
   LOT, THROUGH or a DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with
frontage on more than one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be
referred to as DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A strip of land, owned publicly or privately, set
aside primarily for vehicular service access to the back side of properties
otherwise abutting a street, an alley.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. An unconditional written understanding, approved by
the Planning Board whereby a guarantor agrees that the developer, subdivider or
applicant will pay the costs of stated construction improvements if performance
is not made as stated.
   PLAN. A graphic representation or map of the tract of land to be developed
indicating all proposed divisions of land, their uses, improvements and other
information as may be required to fully disclose the applicant's intentions.
The purpose of a PLAN is to provide general and specific information and is not
intended to be a recordable document.
   PLANNING BOARD. The Town of Columbus Planning Board.
   PLAT. A map or plan of a parcel of land which is to be, or has been
subdivided and is intended to be a recordable document.
   RECOMBINATION. The combining of portions of previously subdivided and
recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased as established by
this chapter.
   ROAD OR STREET, PRIVATE. A dedicated private right-of-way which affords
access to abutting properties and conforms to the requirements of §
153.69 below.
   ROAD OR STREET, PUBLIC. A dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular
traffic which affords access to abutting properties and conforms with the
requirements of §
153.68 below. A PUBLIC STREET is intended to be taken over by the State
Department of Transportation upon completion.
   ROAD, SUBDIVISION COLLECTOR. A local road within a major subdivision which
serves as a connector street between local residential streets and the
thoroughfare system and includes cul-de-sac or dead end roads more than 2,500
feet in length, connecting roads between the local residential subdivision
roads and the thoroughfare system, loop roads more than 5,280 feet (one mile)
in length, and other roads having a "collector" type function in the
thoroughfare system.
   ROAD, SUBDIVISION LOCAL. A local road within a major subdivision which
serves to access individual parcels of land and includes cul-de-sac or dead end
roads less than 2,500 feet in length, short roads that connect blocks, other
roads that do not connect to thoroughfares or serve major traffic generators.
   SECTION. A grouping of lots, right-of-way, common space and associated
improvements therein, designating a preliminary plan, final plan and final
plat, numbered consecutively and relating to phases of a master plan, if
applicable.
   SETBACK. The distance from an established property boundary or other line
defined in this chapter that established the buildable area on the lot.
   SEWER SYSTEM, COMMUNITY. Any privately-owned sewer system serving more than
one residence.
   SEWER SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL. Any septic tank or ground absorption system
serving a single source or connection and approved by the District Health
Department.
   SEWER SYSTEM, PUBLIC. Any sewer system owned and operated by a local
government or water authority.
   STREET LINE. The edge of the roadway pavement or surface.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm or corporation who subdivides or develops any
land deemed to be a subdivision as herein defined.
   SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Manager, Town Planner or any other
designated person of the town responsible for assisting in the administration
and enforcement of this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION, CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A type of major subdivision that is
intended to allow smaller than minimum lot sizes with dwelling units clustered
in smaller areas in order to preserve larger areas of open space and
environmental resources.
   SUBDIVISION, FAMILY. A subdivision of land by a property owner among his or
her immediate family as a gift, as settlement of the property owner's estate,
or for nominal consideration; the conveyance of a tract or tracts to a grantee
who would have been an heir of the grantor if the grantor had died intestate
immediately prior to the conveyance; or the conveyance of a tract or tracts for
the purpose of dividing lands among the tenants in common, all of whom
inherited, by intestacy or by will, the land from a common ancestor.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. A subdivision of land by a property owner into six or
more lots or parcels for the purpose of sale or development (whether immediate
or future).
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. A subdivision of land by a property owner into three,
four or five lots or parcels for the purpose of sale or development (whether
immediate or future).
   SUBDIVISION, SPECIAL. A subdivision for purposes other than general,
residential or commercial development including:
      (1)   Building locations for condominiums or townhouses within an
approved major subdivision;
      (2)   Utility facilities such as sub-station sites, meter vaults, pump
station sites and the like; and
      (3)   Cemetery plots.
   SUBDIVISION, TWO-LOT. A subdivision that involves not more than two lots and
does not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or the adjoining
property.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town of Columbus Town Council.
   WATER SYSTEM, COMMUNITY. Any privately-owned water system serving 15 or more
residential connections or serving more than 25 year-round residents. Plans and
specifications for any community water system require written approval from the
State Department of Environment, Health and Natural Resources, Division of
Health Services, Water Supply Branch.
   WATER SYSTEM, INDIVIDUAL. A source of water serving a single connection.
   WATER SYSTEM, PRIVATE. Any water system serving from two to 14 connections,
inclusively or 25 or fewer year-round residents.
   WATER SYSTEM, PUBLIC. Any water system owned and operated by a local
government in the town.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.06 LEGAL PROVISIONS; SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, no plat of a subdivision of
land within the town's jurisdiction shall be filed or recorded until it has
been submitted to and approved by the Planning Board and until this approval is
entered in writing on the face of the plat by the Chairperson of the Planning
Board unless otherwise directed in this chapter.
   (B)   The County Register of Deeds shall not file or record a plat of a
subdivision of land located within the planning jurisdiction of the town that
has not been approved in accordance with these provisions, nor shall the County
Clerk of Court order or direct the recording of a plat if the recording would
be in conflict with this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.07 EXISTING AND FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All proposed subdivisions of land must comply in all respects with the
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 154) of the town, where applicable, and any other officially adopted
plans or maps approved by any governmental body or agency.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.08 SUBDIVISION EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment may authorize an exception from these
regulations when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict
compliance.
   (B)   In granting any exception, the Board of Adjustment shall hold a quasi-
judicial public hearing. The Board of Adjustment shall take into account the
nature of the proposed subdivision, the existing use of land in the vicinity,
the existing environmental conditions, the number of persons to reside or work
in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity.
   (C)   No exceptions shall be granted unless the Board of Adjustment finds:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The circumstances are peculiar to the parcel and are not generally
characteristic of other parcels in the jurisdiction of this chapter; and
      (3)   The granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in
which the property is situated.
   (D)   Any exception authorized by this ordinance is required to be entered
in writing in the minutes of the meeting of the Planning Board and recorded on
the final plat in the Office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
   (E)   Board of Adjustment decisions pertaining to subdivision exceptions
shall be subject to review by the Superior Court Division of the General Courts
of Justice of the state by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any
petition for review by the Superior Court shall be duly verified and filed with
the Clerk of Superior Court within 30 days after the decision is made and in
writing.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.09 APPEALS.
   Appeals from decisions of the Subdivision Administrator shall be taken to
the Board of Adjustment; appeals from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment
shall be taken to the Court of Record as provided by law. Appeals must be filed
within 30 days from the date the respective order or decision is issued.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.10 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   This chapter may be amended from time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall make a recommendation to the Town Council on
any amendment including a statement regarding the consistency of the proposed
amendment with adopted town plans and policies. The Planning Board shall have
30 days from the time that the amendment is referred by the Subdivision
Administrator in which to make the recommendation.
   (C)   The Town Council shall hold a public hearing on the amendment. Notice
of the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
town at least once a week for two successive calendar weeks before the hearing.
The initial notice shall appear not more than 25 nor less than ten days before
the hearing date. In computing the ten- to 25-day period, the date of
publication is not to be counted, but the date of the hearing shall be counted.
   (D)   The Town Council shall include a statement regarding the consistency
of the proposed amendment with adopted town plans and policies in its vote to
approve or deny the proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.11 ABROGATION.
   This chapter shall neither repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or interfere with
any existing subdivisions, the plats of which are properly recorded in the
Office of the County Register of Deeds prior to the effective date of this
chapter nor with the existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant to law prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.12 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, is hereby appointed to serve as
the Subdivision Administrator until the Town Council creates a separate
position of Subdivision Administrator. A fee for applications, reviewing and
approving subdivisions shall be established by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.13 VESTED RIGHTS.
   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-385.1, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Definition of vested right. A VESTED RIGHT is the right to undertake
and complete the development and use of a property under the terms and
conditions of an approved site specific development plan.
   (B)   Establishment of vested right.
      (1)   A vested right shall be deemed established with respect to any
property upon the valid approval or conditional approval, of a site specific
development plan or a phased development plan, following notice and public
hearing by the town with jurisdiction over the property.
      (2)   The vested right shall confer upon the landowner the right to
undertake and complete the development and use of the property under the terms
and conditions of the site specific development plan or the phased development
plan including any amendments thereto.
      (3)   A town may approve a site specific development plan or a phased
development plan upon such terms and conditions as may reasonably be necessary
to protect the public health, safety and welfare. The conditional approval
shall result in a vested right, although failure to abide by such terms and
conditions will result in a forfeiture of vested rights.
      (4)   A town shall not require a landowner to waive his or her vested
rights as a condition of developmental approval. A site specific development
plan or a phased development plan shall be deemed approved upon the effective
date of the town's action or ordinance relating thereto.
   (C)   Duration and termination of vested right.
      (1)   A right which has been vested as provided for in this section shall
remain vested for a period of two years. This vesting shall not be extended by
any amendments or modifications to a site specific development plan unless
expressly provided by the town.
      (2)   The Town Council may provide that rights shall be vested for a
period exceeding two years but not exceeding five years where warranted in
light of all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the size
and phasing of development, the level of investment, the need for the
development, economic cycles and market conditions. These determinations shall
be in the sound discretion of the town. This shall not apply to development
agreements approved in accordance with G.S. § 160A-400.20-32.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.14 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
SUBDIVISION TYPES AND REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 153.25 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish an orderly subdivision
process for the town. It is also the intent of this subchapter to provide a
clear and comprehensive approval process that is fair and equitable to all
interests including the petitioners, affected neighbors, town staff, related
agencies, the Planning Board and the Town Council. Approved plans shall be the
guiding documents for final approval and permitting.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.26 SUBDIVISION DEFINED.
   (A)   As used in this chapter, the definition of the word subdivision is
defined in G.S. § 160A-376, as now or hereafter amended.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SUBDIVISION. All divisions of a tract or parcel of land into two or more
lots, building sites or other divisions when any one or more of those divisions
are created for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate
or future) and includes all division of land involving the dedication of a new
street or a change in existing streets; however, the following is not included
within this definition and is not subject to any regulations enacted pursuant
to this subchapter.
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased and
the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the county as shown
in its subdivision regulations.
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than ten acres if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for
widening or opening streets or for public transportation system corridors.
         (d)   The division of a tract in single ownership the entire area of
which is no greater than two acres into not more than three lots, if no street
right-of-way dedication is involved and if the resultant lots are equal to or
exceed the standards of the county as shown by its subdivision regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.27 SUBDIVISION TYPES.
   For all subdivisions of land as defined in §
153.26 above, the following categories of subdivisions shall be used to
determine the procedures required for review.
   (A)   Two lot subdivision. A two-lot subdivision involves not more than two
lots and does not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or the adjoining
property.
   (B)   Family subdivision. A subdivision of land by a property owner among
his immediate family as a gift, as settlement of the property owner's estate,
or for nominal consideration; the conveyance of a tract or tracts to a grantee
who would have been an heir of the grantor if the grantor had died intestate
immediately prior to the conveyance; or the conveyance of a tract or tracts for
the purpose of dividing lands among the tenants in common, all of whom
inherited, by intestacy or by will, the land from a common ancestor.
   (C)   Minor subdivision. A subdivision of land by a property owner into
three, four or five lots or parcels.
   (D)   Major subdivision. A subdivision of land by a property owner into six
or more lots or parcels.
   (E)   Cluster development subdivision. A type of major subdivision that is
intended to allow smaller than minimum lot sizes with dwelling units clustered
in smaller areas in order to preserve larger areas of open space and
environmental resources.
   (F)   Special subdivision. A special subdivision is for purposes other than
general, residential or commercial development including:
      (1)   Building locations for condominiums or townhouses within an
approved major subdivision;
      (2)   Utility facilities such as sub-station sites, meter vaults, pump
station sites and the like; and
      (3)   Cemetery plots.
   (G)   Other subdivisions. Any other subdivision of land which does not fall
within a category designated above shall be subject to review by the Planning
Board.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.28 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   (A)   Two-lot, family and special subdivisions. It is recommended that the
subdivider meet with the Town Subdivision Administrator in a pre-application
conference to informally discuss this chapter and the subdivision of land in
the town. It is recommended that a sketch plan of the proposed plat be provided
to the Subdivision Administrator for preliminary review.
   (B)   Minor and major subdivisions. The subdivider is required to meet with
the Subdivision Administrator in a pre-application conference to informally
discuss this chapter and the minor or major subdivision of land in the town. A
sketch plan of the proposed plat shall also be provided to the Subdivision
Administrator for preliminary review. Requirements for the sketch plan are in §
153.46 below.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.29 RECOMBINATIONS AND SUBDIVISION EXEMPTION PLATS.
   For the recombination of previously subdivided land or for plats that do not
meet the definition of a subdivision as set forth in §
153.26, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Review process. The Subdivision Administrator shall confirm that the
plat does not meet the definition of a subdivision, and that minimum zoning lot
sizes are met.
   (B)   Recombination and exemption plat special requirements.
      (1)   Prior to recording a plat for recombination, the applicant shall
provide evidence to the Subdivision Administrator that the recombination of all
or portions of parcels of previously subdivided and recorded lands which have
been recombined is in such a fashion where the resultant number of parcels is
less than or equal to the original number of parcels and meets the requirements
of this chapter, where applicable.
      (2)   Any plat or any part of a plat may be vacated by the owner at any
time before the sale of any lot in the subdivision by a written instrument to
which a copy of the plat shall be attached, declaring the same to be vacated.
Such an instrument shall be approved by the same agencies as approved the final
plat. The governing body may reject any such instrument which abridges or
destroys any public rights in any of its public uses, improvements, streets or
alleys. Such an instrument shall be executed, acknowledged or approved, and
recorded and filed in the same manner as a final plat; and being duly recorded
or filed shall operate to destroy the force and effect of the recording of the
plat so vacated, and to divest all public rights in the streets, alleys and
public grounds, and all dedications laid out or described in the plat.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.30 TWO-LOT, FAMILY AND SPECIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Two-lot, family and special subdivision review process.
      (1)   General. A subdivider may apply to the Subdivision Administrator,
for a final plat review process for two-lot, family and special subdivisions.
The steps in the boxes below correspond with a detailed description of each
step of the process below.
         (a)   Step 1: Applicant submits final plat and applicable
documentation.
         (b)   Step 2: Subdivision Administrator review period.
         (c)   Step 3: Applicant revision period.
         (d)   Step 4: Subdivision Administrator final plat approval.
      (2)   Steps.
         (a)   Step 1. Applicant submits final plat.
            1.   The applicant shall submit a final plat in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
153.49 below. The applicant shall also submit with the plat the application,
fee and any other documentation required by this section. Two-lot subdivisions
do not require an application and fee.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator may request reports from the
District Health Department, the County Soil and Water Conservation District,
and other local, state or federal officials, agencies or consultants as deemed
necessary.
         (b)   Step 2. Subdivision Administrator Review Period.
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the plat in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 154), and any other applicable ordinance. This review shall take not
more than ten working days.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator may have any other applicable
local, state and federal officials, agencies or consultants review the plat.
The ten-working day limit may be extended up to 30 days if these agencies have
been consulted and the Subdivision Administrator is awaiting a reply.
            3.   Failure of the Subdivision Administrator to act, in writing,
on the plat within the specified response time shall be deemed as a basis for
appealing to the Town Planning Board.
         (c)   Step 3. Applicant revision period. The applicant shall revise
the plat in accordance with the Subdivision Administrator's review. All
necessary revisions shall be made prior to approval by the Subdivision
Administrator.
         (d)   Step 4. Subdivision Administrator final plat approval. Following
successful revision of the Final Plat by the applicant, the Subdivision
Administrator shall approve the final plat by obtaining the applicable
signatures as required by §
153.49 below.
   (B)   Two-lot subdivision special requirements. All lots shall conform to
the minimum area requirements of the Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances).
   (C)   Family subdivision special requirements.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit with his or her application for a
family subdivision, written evidence that the subdivision is a division of land
by a property owner among his or her immediate family, to wit: spouse, children
or their lineal descendants or ascendants, or the lineal descendants or
ascendants of the property owner as a gift or as a settlement of the property
owner's estate.
      (2)   The family subdivision shall provide that each lot or parcel of
land shall have direct access from an existing recorded right-of-way or shall
have a recorded right-of-way from a public road. If a grantor has a recorded
right-of-way, it must transfer along with the property.
      (3)   All lots shall conform to the minimum area requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance.
   (D)   Special subdivision special requirements.
      (1)   If the proposed special subdivision is within a major subdivision
as herein defined, then the subdivider shall comply with the review procedures
for a major subdivision.
      (2)   All roads and rights-of-way shall conform to the minimum road
requirements as provided in §§
153.60 through
153.77.
      (3)   Any lot created for immediate or future development or sale shall
conform to the minimum lot requirements of the Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances).
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.31 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Minor subdivision review process.
      (1)   General. The steps in the boxes below correspond with a detailed
description of each step of the process below.
         (a)   Step 1: Pre-application meeting with sketch plan.
         (b)   Step 2: Applicant submits preliminary plat and applicable
documentation.
         (c)   Step 3: Subdivision Administrator review and recommendation of
preliminary plat.
         (d)   Step 4: Review and recommendation by other applicable agencies.
         (e)   Step 5: Planning Board hearing and consideration of preliminary
plat.
         (f)   Step 6: Infrastructure/improvements installed or guaranteed.
         (g)   Step 7: Applicant submits final plat and supporting
documentation.
         (h)   Step 8: Subdivision Administrator review and consideration of
final plat.
      (2)   Steps.
         (a)   Step 1. Pre-application meeting with sketch plan. The applicant
shall schedule a pre-application meeting with the Subdivision Administrator.
The applicant shall bring a sketch plan of the proposed development to the
meeting that meets the requirements set forth in §
153.46.
         (b)   Step 2. Applicant submits preliminary plat and applicable
documentation. The applicant shall submit an application, fee and preliminary
plat that meets the requirements of §
153.48, and other required materials.
         (c)   Step 3. Subdivision Administrator review and recommendation of
preliminary plat.
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the plat in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any
other applicable ordinance. This review shall take not more than ten working
days.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator may have any applicable local,
state, and federal agencies review the plat. The ten-working day limit may be
extended to a total of 30 days if these agencies have been consulted and the
Subdivision Administrator is awaiting a reply.
            3.   The Subdivision Administrator shall make a recommendation in
writing to the Planning Board to approve, approve with modifications or deny
the preliminary plat.
         (d)   Step 4. Review and recommendation by other applicable agencies.
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall provide that those public
agencies concerned with new development be given the opportunity to review and
make recommendations on the plat.
            2.   All recommendations shall be forwarded to the Administrator
within 30 days from date of receipt.
            3.   The public agencies shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
               a.   NCDOT district highway engineer with regard to proposed
streets, highways and drainage systems;
               b.   Town Public Works Department;
               c.   District Health Department with regard to proposed water
and sewage systems;
               d.   Polk County Building Inspections Department with regard to
building codes;
               e.   District Fire Chief;
               f.   District office of State Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (NCDENR); and
               g.   Any other agency or official designated by the Subdivision
Administrator and/or the Planning Board.
         (e)   Step 5. Planning Board hearing and consideration of preliminary
plat.
            1.   After having sufficiently reviewed the preliminary plat, the
Subdivision Administrator shall place the item on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting.
            2.   The Planning Board shall review the plat in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any other applicable
ordinance.
            3.   The Planning Board shall have up to 60 days to approve,
approve with modifications or deny the preliminary plat.
            4.   The Subdivision Administrator shall notify the applicant, in
writing, of the Planning Board's action.
            5.   The final plat shall be submitted not more than two years
after the date on which the preliminary plat was approved, otherwise, the
approval shall be null and void unless a written extension of this limit is
granted by the Planning Board on or before the two-year anniversary of the
approval.
         (f)   Step 6. Infrastructure/improvements installed or guaranteed. If
public improvements are required, the improvements shall be installed and
approved by the appropriate state or local agencies, or guarantees for their
installation shall be secured before final plat approval in accordance with §
153.33.
         (g)   Step 7. Applicant submits final plat and supporting
documentation. The applicant shall submit a final plat that meets the
requirements of §
153.49. This submittal shall include copies of any required NCDENR or NCDOT
permit approvals.
         (h)   Step 8. Subdivision Administrator review and approval of final
plat.
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the final plat for
compliance with the approved preliminary plat, verify that all required
infrastructure improvements have been completed or guaranteed in accordance
with §
153.33, and ensure that the final plat meets the requirements of §
153.49.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the plat in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any
other applicable ordinances. This review shall not take more than ten working
days.
            3.   The Subdivision Administrator shall notify the applicant in
writing of his or her findings to either:
               a.   Approve;
               b.   Approve with modifications; or
               c.   Deny the final plat.
            4.   If the action is to disapprove the final plat, then the
reasons for such action shall be stated in the letter and specific reference
shall be made to the regulations with which the final plat does not comply.
            5.   The subdivider shall provide the Subdivision Administrator
with a recorded copy of the plat and required documents that have been recorded
with the Register of Deeds within five working days of the information being
recorded. No permits shall be issued for the individual lots until the
subdivider has provided a copy of the recorded plat.
   (B)   Minor subdivision special requirements. The minor subdivision process
shall not be used a second time within three years anywhere within the original
property boundaries if the total number of lots would constitute a major
subdivision. The major subdivision process shall be followed for further
subdivision that takes place within three years.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.32 MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Review process for single phase major subdivisions.
      (1)   General. The steps in the boxes below correspond with a detailed
description of each step of the process below.
         (a)   Step 1: Pre-application meeting with sketch plan.
         (b)   Step 2: Applicant submits preliminary plat and applicable
documentation.
         (c)   Step 3: Subdivision Administrator review and recommendation of
preliminary plat.
         (d)   Step 4: Review and recommendation by other applicable agencies.
         (e)   Step 5: Planning Board review and recommendation of preliminary
plat.
         (f)   Step 6: Town Council hearing and consideration of preliminary
plat.
         (g)   Step 7: Infrastructure/improvements installed or guaranteed.
         (h)   Step 8: Applicant submits final plat and supporting
documentation.
         (i)   Step 9: Subdivision Administrator review and consideration of
final plat.
      (2)   Steps.
         (a)   Step 1. Pre-application meeting with sketch plan. The applicant
shall schedule a pre-application meeting with the Subdivision Administrator.
The applicant shall bring a sketch plan of the proposed development to the
meeting that meets the requirements set forth in §
153.46.
         (b)   Step 2. Applicant submits preliminary plat and applicable
documentation.
            1.   The applicant shall submit a preliminary plat in accordance
with the requirements set forth in §
153.48.
            2.   The applicant shall also submit with the plat an application,
fee and any other required documentation as set forth in §
153.48.
         (c)   Step 3. Subdivision Administrator review and recommendation of
preliminary plat.
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the plat in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any
other applicable ordinance. This review shall take not more than ten working
days.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator may have any applicable local,
state and federal agencies review the plat. The ten working day limit may be
extended to a total of 30 days if these agencies have been consulted and the
Subdivision Administrator is awaiting a reply.
            3.   The Subdivision Administrator shall make a recommendation in
writing to the Planning Board to approve, approve with modifications or deny
the preliminary plat.
         (d)   Step 4. Review and recommendation by other applicable agencies
of preliminary plat. The Subdivision Administrator shall provide that those
public agencies concerned with new development be given the opportunity to
review and make recommendations on every preliminary plat.
            1.   All recommendations shall be forwarded to the Administrator
within 30 days from date of receipt.
            2.   The public agencies shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
               a.   NCDOT district highway engineer with regard to proposed
streets, highways and drainage systems;
               b.   Town Public Works Department;
               c.   District Health Department with regard to proposed water
and sewerage systems;
               d.   County Building Inspections Department with regard to
building codes;
               e.   District Fire Chief;
               f.   District office of State Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (NCDENR); and
               g.   Any other agency or official designated by the Subdivision
Administrator and/or the Planning Board.
         (e)   Step 5. Planning Board review and recommendation of preliminary
plat.
            1.   After having sufficiently reviewed the preliminary plat, the
Subdivision Administrator shall place the item on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting.
            2.   The Planning Board shall review the plat in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any other applicable
ordinance.
            3.   The Planning Board shall make a recommendation in writing to
the Town Council to approve, approve with modifications or deny the preliminary
plat.
         (f)   Step 6. Town Council hearing and consideration of preliminary
plat.
            1.   After a recommendation is provided from the Planning Board,
the Subdivision Administrator shall place the item on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled Town Council meeting.
            2.   The Town Council shall review the plat in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any other applicable
ordinance.
            3.   The Town Council shall have up to 60 days to approve, approve
with modifications or deny the preliminary plat.
            4.   The Subdivision Administrator shall notify the applicant, in
writing, of the Town Council's action.
            5.   The final plat shall be submitted not more than two years
after the date on which the preliminary plat was approved, otherwise, the
approval shall be null and void unless a written extension of this limit is
granted by the Town Council on or before the two-year anniversary of the
approval.
         (g)   Step 7. Infrastructure/improvements installed or guaranteed.
Prior to approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall have installed the
improvements specified in this chapter or guaranteed their installation as
provided in §
153.33.
         (h)   Step 8. Applicant submits final plat and supporting
documentation. The applicant shall submit a final plat that meets the
requirements of §
153.49.
         (i)   Step 9. Subdivision Administrator review and approval of final
plat.
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the final plat for
compliance with the approved preliminary plat, verify that all required
infrastructure improvements have been completed or guaranteed in accordance
with §
153.33, and ensure that the final plat meets the requirements of §
153.49.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the plat in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any
other applicable ordinances. This review shall not take more than ten working
days.
            3.   The Subdivision Administrator shall notify the applicant in
writing of his or her findings to either:
               a.   Approve;
               b.   Approve with modifications; or
               c.   Deny the final plat.
            4.   If the action is to disapprove the final plat, then the
reasons for that action shall be stated in the letter and specific reference
shall be made to the regulations with which the final plat does not comply.
            5.   The subdivider shall provide the Subdivision Administrator
with a recorded copy of the plat and required documents that have been recorded
with the Register of Deeds within five working days of the information being
recorded. No permits shall be issued for the individual lots until the
subdivider has provided a copy of the recorded plat.
   (B)   Review process for multi-phase major subdivisions.
      (1)   General. The numbers in the boxes below correspond with a detailed
description of each step of the process on the following pages.
         (a)   Step 1: Pre-application meeting with sketch plan.
         (b)   Step 2: Applicant submits master plan and applicable
documentation (phases shown).
         (c)   Step 3: Subdivision Administrator review and recommendation of
master plan.
         (d)   Step 4: Planning Board hearing and consideration of master plan.
         (e)   Step 5: Applicant submits preliminary plat and applicable
documentation of individual phase.
         (f)   Step 6: Subdivision Administrator review and recommendation of
preliminary plat (individual phase).
         (g)   Step 7: Review and recommendation by other applicable agencies
of preliminary plat (individual phase).
         (h)   Step 8: Planning Board review and recommendation of preliminary
plat (individual phase).
         (i)   Step 9: Town Council hearing and consideration of preliminary
plat (individual phase).
         (j)   Step 10: Infrastructure/improvements installed or guaranteed
(individual phase).
         (k)   Step 11: Applicant submits final plat and applicable
documentation (individual phase).
         (l)   Step 12: Subdivision Administrator consideration and approval of
final plat (individual phase).
      (2)   Steps.
         (a)   Step 1. Pre-application meeting with sketch plan. The applicant
shall schedule a pre-application meeting with the Subdivision Administrator.
The applicant shall bring a sketch plan of the proposed development to the
meeting that meets the requirements set forth in §
153.46.
         (b)   Step 2. Applicant submits master plan and applicable
documentation.
            1.   The applicant shall submit an application, fee, master plan
that meets the requirements of §
153.47, and other required materials.
            2.   A master plan showing the entire proposed subdivision and the
phases of development, proposed density, proposed type and location of
utilities and proposed development timetable shall be submitted to the
Subdivision Administrator.
            3.   The master plan may be submitted prior to or simultaneously to
submission of the preliminary plat for the first phase of development.
         (c)   Step 3. Subdivision Administrator review and recommendation of
master plan.
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the plan in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the Zoning Ordinance. This
review shall take not more than ten working days.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator may have any other applicable
local, state and federal agencies review the plat. The ten working day limit
may be extended to a total of 30 days if these agencies have been consulted and
the Subdivision Administrator is awaiting a reply.
            3.   The Subdivision Administrator shall make a recommendation in
writing to the Planning Board to approve, approve with modifications or deny
the master plan.
         (d)   Step 4. Planning Board hearing and consideration of master plan.
            1.   After having sufficiently reviewed the master plan, the
Subdivision Administrator shall place the item on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting.
            2.   The Planning Board shall review the plan in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter and the Zoning Ordinance, if applicable.
            3.   The Planning Board shall have up to 60 days to approve,
approve with modifications or deny the master plan.
            4.   The Subdivision Administrator shall notify the applicant, in
writing, of the Planning Board's action.
            5.   Preliminary plats for the phases shall be submitted not more
than two years after the date on which the master plan was approved, otherwise,
the approval shall be null and void unless extended vested rights have been
granted in accordance with G.S. § 160A-385.1 or a development agreement has
been approved in accordance with G.S. § 160A-400.20-32.
            6.   Approval of the master plan must be renewed if an increase in
the number of lots, number of dwelling units or overall density or a change in
the connectivity to adjacent parcels or roads is proposed.
         (e)   Step 5. Applicant submits preliminary plat for individual
phases.
            1.   The applicant shall submit a preliminary plat for each
individual phase or several phases at once in accordance with the requirements
set forth in §
153.48.
            2.   The applicant shall also submit with the plat an application,
fee and any other required documentation as set forth in §
153.48.
            3.   The master plan phase lines shall be shown on the preliminary
plat.
            4.   When a subdivider proposes to construct new roads without
initially subdividing lots, the subdivider may present a preliminary plat to
the Planning Board for approval of the roads only. This option is provided to
allow developers the flexibility of designing and platting lots after road
construction in order to adjust the subdivision to the existing terrain.
         (f)   Step 6. Subdivision Administrator review and recommendation of
preliminary plat (individual phases).
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the plat in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and
other applicable ordinances. This review shall take not more than ten working
days.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator may have any other applicable
local, state and federal agencies review the plat. The ten working day limit
may be extended to a total of 30 days if these agencies have been consulted and
the Subdivision Administrator is awaiting a reply.
            3.   The Subdivision Administrator shall make a recommendation in
writing to the Planning Board to approve, approve with modifications or deny
the preliminary plat.
         (g)   Step 7. Review and recommendation by other applicable agencies
of preliminary plat (individual phases).
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall provide that those public
agencies concerned with new development be given the opportunity to review and
make recommendations on every preliminary plat.
            2.   All recommendations shall be forwarded to the Administrator
within 30 days from date of receipt.
            3.   The public agencies shall include, but are not limited to, the
following:
               a.   NCDOT district highway engineer with regard to proposed
streets, highways and drainage systems;
               b.   Town Public Works Department;
               c.   District Health Department with regard to proposed water
and sewerage systems;
               d.   County Building Inspections Department with regard to
building codes;
               e.   District Fire Chief;
               f.   District office of State Department of Environment and
Natural Resources (NCDENR); and
               g.   Any other agency or official designated by the Subdivision
Administrator and/or the Planning Board.
         (h)   Step 8. Planning Board review and recommendation of preliminary
plat (individual phases).
            1.   After having sufficiently reviewed the preliminary plat, the
Subdivision Administrator shall place the item on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting.
            2.   The Planning Board shall review the plat in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any other applicable
ordinance.
            3.   The Planning Board shall make a recommendation in writing to
the Town Council to approve, approve with modifications or deny the preliminary
plat.
         (i)   Step 9. Town Council hearing and consideration of preliminary
plat (individual phases).
            1.   After the Planning Board sufficiently reviews the preliminary
plat, the Subdivision Administrator shall place the item on the agenda of the
next regularly scheduled Town Council meeting.
            2.   The Town Council shall review the plat in accordance with the
requirements of this ordinance and the Zoning Ordinance, if applicable.
            3.   The Town Council shall have up to 60 days to approve, approve
with modifications, or deny the preliminary plat.
            4.   The Subdivision Administrator shall notify the applicant, in
writing, of the Town Council's action.
            5.   The final plat shall be submitted not more than two years
after the date on which the preliminary plat was approved, otherwise, the
approval shall be null and void.
         (j)   Step 10. Infrastructure/improvements installed or guaranteed
(individual phases) prior to approval of the final plat. The subdivider shall
have installed the improvements specified in this chapter or guaranteed their
installation as provided in §
153.33.
         (k)   Step 11. Applicant submits final plat (individual phases). The
applicant shall submit a Final Plat that meets the requirements of §
153.49.
         (l)   Step 12. Subdivision Administrator consideration and approval of
final plat (individual phases).
            1.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the final plat for
compliance with the approved preliminary plat, verify that all required
infrastructure improvements have been completed or guaranteed in accordance
with §
153.33, and ensure that the final plat meets the requirements of §
153.49.
            2.   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the plat in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance and any
other applicable ordinances. This review shall not take more than ten working
days.
            3.   The Subdivision Administrator shall notify the applicant in
writing of his or her findings to either:
               a.   Approve;
               b.   Approve with modifications; or
               c.   Deny the final plat.
            4.   If the action is to disapprove the final plat, then the
reasons for such action shall be stated in the letter and specific reference
shall be made to the regulations with which the final plat does not comply.
            5.   The subdivider shall provide the Subdivision Administrator
with a recorded copy of the plat and required documents that have been recorded
with the Register of Deeds within five working days of the information being
recorded. No permits shall be issued for the individual lots until the
subdivider has provided a copy of the recorded plat.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.33 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   In lieu of requiring the completion, installation and dedication of
all improvements prior to final plat approval, the town may enter into an
agreement with the subdivider whereby the subdivider shall agree to complete
all required improvements as specified by the approved preliminary plat for
that portion of the subdivision to be shown on the final plat within a mutually
agreed upon specified time period.
   (B)   Once agreed upon by both parties and the security required herein is
provided, the final plat may be approved by the Town Planning Board if all
other requirements of this chapter are met.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall require a certified cost estimate from a
licensed contractor or engineer for the cost of completion of the improvements.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide one of the following performance
guarantees in lieu of installation:
         (a)   Surety performance bond(s). The subdivider shall obtain a
performance bond(s) from a surety bonding company authorized to do business in
the state. The bond(s) shall be payable to the town, and shall be in an amount
not to exceed one and one-fourth times the entire cost, as estimated by the
subdivider in conjunction with the Planning Board, and approved by the Planning
Board of installing all required improvements. The duration of the bond(s)
shall be until such time as the improvements are accepted by the Planning Board
or a default is declared; or
         (b)   Cash or equivalent security. The subdivider shall deposit cash,
an irrevocable letter of credit, or other instrument readily convertible into
cash at face value, either with the town or in a non-interest bearing escrow
account with a financial institution designated as an official depository of
the town. The use of any instrument other than cash shall be subject to the
approval of the Planning Board. The amount of deposit shall not exceed one and
one-fourth times the cost, as estimated by the subdivider in conjunction with
the Planning Board or installing all required improvements. If cash or other
instrument is deposited in escrow with a financial institution as provided
above, then the subdivider shall file with the Planning Board an agreement
between the financial institution and himself or herself guaranteeing the
following:
            1.   The escrow account shall be held in trust until released by
the Planning Board and may not be used or pledged by the subdivider in any
other matter during the term of the escrow; and
            2.   In the case of a failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the improvements, the financial institution shall, upon notification
by the Planning Board and submission by the Planning Board to the financial
institution of an engineer's estimate of the amount needed to complete the
improvements, immediately either pay to the town the funds estimated to
complete the improvements, up to the full balance of the escrow account, or
deliver to the county any other instruments fully endorsed or otherwise made
payable to the county.
      (2)   Upon default, meaning failure on the part of the subdivider to
complete the required improvements in a timely manner as spelled out in the
performance bond or escrow agreement, then the surety, or the financial
institution holding the escrow account shall, if requested by the town, pay all
or any portion of the bond or escrow fund to the town up to the amount needed
to complete the improvements based on an engineering estimate. Upon payment,
the Planning Board, in its discretion, may expend the portion of the funds as
it deems necessary to complete all or any portion of the required improvements.
The town shall return to the subdivider any funds not spent in completing the
improvements.
      (3)   The Planning Board may release a portion of any security posted as
the improvements are completed and recommended for approval by the Subdivision
Administrator. Within 30 days after receiving the Subdivision Administrator's
recommendation, the Planning Board shall approve or not approve the
improvements. If the Planning Board approves the improvements, then it shall
immediately release any security posted.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
SUBDIVISION PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.45 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the requirements for plat and
plan submittal for subdivisions in accordance with the processes set forth in
§§
153.25 through
153.33.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.46 SKETCH PLANS FOR PRE-APPLICATION MEETINGS.
   (A)   Plan labeling.
      (1)   A sketch plan shall be required for the pre-application meeting
with the Subdivision Administrator. The plan shall be scaled and show the
approximate proposed layout of streets, lots, buildings, open spaces and other
features in relation to existing conditions.
      (2)   It shall also include the following information:
         (a)   Name of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location (town, county, state);
         (c)   North arrow;
         (d)   Boundaries of the property;
         (e)   Tax map number(s) of the property;
         (f)   Adjacent property owners and tax map numbers;
         (g)   Total acreage;
         (h)   Existing street layout and right-of-way width;
         (i)   Zoning classification of the property to be developed and of
adjacent properties (if applicable);
         (j)   Existing topographic conditions of the property; and
         (k)   Water courses, watershed, flood plain and preserved areas.
   (B)   Sketch plan submittal requirements. Two copies of the sketch plan
shall be submitted for pre-application meeting.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.47 MASTER PLANS FOR PHASED MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Master plan labeling. All phased major subdivision master plans shall
include but are not limited to the following information:
      (1)   Title;
      (2)   Original submittal date;
      (3)   Revision dates;
      (4)   Vicinity map;
      (5)   North arrow;
      (6)   Scale (no smaller than one inch equals 200 feet);
      (7)   Phase lines;
      (8)   Proposed timetable for development;
      (9)   Proposed lot lines;
      (10)   Zoning districts;
      (11)   Adjacent property owner names, parcel numbers and zoning;
      (12)   Total acreage;
      (13)   Proposed acreage in lots;
      (14)   Proposed acreage in street right-of-way;
      (15)   Proposed acreage and percent of overall development in open space;
      (16)   Overall density per acre;
      (17)   Building setbacks in table format;
      (18)   Locations of existing structures;
      (19)   Boundaries of flood plains or note stating that property is not
within one;
      (20)   Existing topography and designation of slopes greater than 50%;
      (21)   General environmental information;
      (22)   Proposed street types and cross sections;
      (23)   A statement regarding the proposed amount of grading to take
place; and
      (24)   A statement regarding the proposed method of stormwater
management.
   (B)   Master plan submittal requirements:
      (1)   Three full-size copies for staff review;
      (2)   Three full-size copies and one reduced (11 inches by 17 inches)
copy for Planning Board; and
      (3)   One digital copy in .pdf format.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.48 PRELIMINARY PLATS FOR MINOR AND MAJOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall depict or contain the following
information.
   (B)   Where "proposed/actual" is noted, the proposed information shall be
shown on the preliminary plat and the actual information shall be shown on the
final plat. Preliminary plats shall be clearly and legibly drawn at a scale of
not less than 200 to one inch acceptable to the Register of Deeds of the
county.
      (1)   Labeling:
         (a)   Name and address of owner of record;
         (b)   Name of subdivision;
         (c)   Location (town, county, state);
         (d)   Date(s) of survey(s);
         (e)   Graphic scale and written scale (common engineering scale
between one inch equals 20 feet and one inch equals 200 feet);
         (f)   North arrow;
         (g)   Name, address and registration number of registered land
surveyor;
         (h)   Tax parcel identification number;
         (i)   Vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed
subdivision and surrounding area;
         (j)   Boundaries of the tract shown with bearings and distances;
         (k)   Map depicting the proposed phases of the subdivision and lots
and/or sections contained therein and a tentative phasing schedule/timeline;
         (l)   Names of adjacent property owners;
         (m)   Proposed lot lines and corners, lot and block numbers, and
approximate dimensions including acreage;
         (n)   Existing buildings or structures, railroads and bridges on the
land to be subdivided;
         (o)   Existing uses of the land within the proposed subdivision;
         (p)   Location of any cemetery;
         (q)   Proposed school sites, parks or other open spaces; and
         (r)   Location of the flood hazard, floodway and flood fringe
boundaries, if applicable.
      (2)   Roads:
         (a)   Existing and platted roads on abutting properties and in the
proposed subdivision with rights-of-way, location and dimensions;
         (b)   Road name(s) and designation of private or public dedication;
         (c)   Linear feet in roads;
         (d)   Street cross sections showing right-of-way-width, pavement
width, and shoulder, as well as any additional features such as curb and
gutter, sidewalks, street trees and street lights; and
         (e)   State Department of Transportation (NCDOT) written approval of
any public road plans, if applicable.
      (3)   Utilities:
         (a)   Utility and other right-of-ways or easements of record on and
abutting to the subdivision;
         (b)   Transmission lines;
         (c)   Approximate location of natural gas lines;
         (d)   Approximate location of water and sanitary sewers existing,
approximate location, size and plans for connection to private community or
public community or public systems; and
         (e)   Storm sewers, culverts, detention ponds and other drainage
facilities, if any (proposed/actual).
      (4)   Site calculations:
         (a)   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided;
         (b)   Total number of lots and/or units;
         (c)   Area of each lot in acres;
         (d)   Acreage in open space and percentage of total development area;
         (e)   Acreage in parks, lakes or other public land usage;
         (f)   Average lot size; and
         (g)   Proposed minimum building setback lines or note explaining
setback lines.
      (5)   Other details:
         (a)   Location and name of all water courses, as identified on
U.S.G.S. seven and one-half minute series (topographic) maps;
         (b)   Note all lots or building sites with an elevation of 3,000 feet
above sea level or greater;
         (c)   Stormwater plan and analysis;
         (d)   Environmental survey for major subdivisions in accordance with §
153.62(B) showing existing conditions including topography, slopes greater than
50%, large stands of trees, any tree over 18 inches in diameter, significant
rock outcroppings, slopes steeper than 15%, floodplains, floodways, wetlands,
perennial streams, natural drainageways, lakes, other water bodies and the
presence of any known endangered species indicated in any surveys completed by
the state or other governmental agency. Photographs representative of the
property's features shall also be provided;
         (e)   Landscaping plan, if applicable;
         (f)   Lighting plan, if applicable; and
         (g)   Other infrastructure details deemed necessary by the Subdivision
Administrator.
      (6)   Certificates and other documentation:
         (a)   Certificate of approval for preliminary plat for minor
subdivisions.
   This certifies that the Town Planning Board approved the preliminary plat of
the ______________ Subdivision on the ___ day of ______________, 20___.
________________________________________
Chairman, Town of Columbus Planning Board
         (b)   Certificate of approval for preliminary plat for major
subdivisions.
   This certifies that the Town of Columbus Town Council approved the
Preliminary Plat of the ________________ Subdivision on the _____ day of
___________, 20___.
_________________________________________
Mayor, Town of Columbus or Designee
         (c)   Certificate of steep terrain health protection (if applicable).
   I hereby certify that all lots on slopes of greater than 20% meet the
provisions and minimum lot size requirements as set forth in Section 5.3.3 of
the Town of Columbus Subdivision Ordinance.
_____________________________   __________________   __________________
Professional Engineer or Surveyor   Registration Number      Date
         (d)   Grading and Erosion Control Plan and a North Carolina Department
of Environment Natural Resources (NCDENR) written approval, if applicable.
         (e)   Written approval from the town for provision of public water and
sewer, if applicable.
         (f)   NCDENR written approval for a community or public sanitary sewer
system, if applicable.
         (g)   NCDENR written approval for a public or community water system,
if applicable.
         (h)   A written statement, if applicable, that: "The Polk County
Health Department has expressed no opinion as to the suitability of private
septic systems or water systems on this property. Each lot is subject to
individual inspection and approval of septic systems."
         (i)   A copy of any required NCDOT driveway permit application.
         (j)   Any other information considered by the subdivider, the Planning
Board, the Town Council and/or Subdivision Administrator to be pertinent to the
review of the plat.
   (C)   Preliminary plat submittal requirements:
      (1)   Three full-size copies for staff review;
      (2)   Four full-size copies and one reduced (11 inches by 17 inches) copy
for Planning Board and Town Council; and
      (3)   One digital copy in .pdf and .dwg formats.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.49 FINAL PLATS FOR ALL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   The final plats shall depict or contain the following information.
   (B)   Final plats shall be clearly and legibly drawn by a registered land
surveyor currently licensed in the state by the State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors.
   (C)   The plat shall also be drawn at a scale of not less than 200 feet to
one inch and shall be drawn on a sheet size of Mylar acceptable to the Register
of Deeds of the county.
      (1)   Final plat requirements for all subdivisions.
         (a)   Labeling:
            1.   Name and address of owner of record;
            2.   Name of subdivision;
            3.   Location (town, county, state);
            4.   Date(s) of survey(s);
            5.   Graphic scale and written scale (common engineering scale
between one inch equals 20 feet and one inch equals 200 feet);
            6.   North arrow;
            7.   Name, address, registration number and seal of registered land
surveyor;
            8.   Tax parcel identification number;
            9.   Vicinity map showing the relationship between the proposed
subdivision and surrounding area;
            10.   Boundaries of the tract shown with bearings and distances;
            11.   Names of adjacent property owners;
            12.   Lot lines and corners, lot numbers, bearings and distances
and other dimensions including acreage;
            13.   Areas reserved for school sites, parks or other open spaces;
            14.   Location of the flood hazard, floodway and flood fringe
boundaries, if applicable;
            15.   Existing buildings or structures, railroads and bridges on
the land to be subdivided; and
            16.   Names of adjacent property owners.
         (b)   Roads:
            1.   Existing and platted roads location and dimensions; and
            2.   Road name(s).
         (c)   Utilities:
            1.   Utility and other easements of record on and abutting to the
subdivision;
            2.   Transmission lines;
            3.   Approximate location of natural gas lines;
            4.   Sanitary sewers, location and size if community systems are
proposed; and
            5.   Storm sewers, culverts, detention ponds and other drainage
facilities, if any.
         (d)   Site calculations:
            1.   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided;
            2.   Total number of lots;
            3.   Linear feet in roads, if applicable;
            4.   Area of each lot in acres; and
            5.   Minimum setbacks in table and graphic form.
         (e)   Other details:
            1.   Location of control corners;
            2.   Location and description of all monuments, reference markers
and property and lot corners designation of any and all wetlands;
            3.   For family subdivisions, a road maintenance agreement signed
by all affected parties shall be filed with the final plat;
            4.   A subdivision roads disclosure statement prepared in
accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6(f) below:
Prior to entering any agreement or any conveyance with any prospective buyer,
the developer and seller shall prepare and sign, and the buyer of the subject
real estate shall receive and sign an acknowledgment of receipt of a separate
instrument known as the subdivision streets disclosure statement (hereinafter
referred to as disclosure statement). The disclosure statement shall fully and
completely disclose the status (whether public or private) of the street upon
which the house or lot fronts. If the street is designated by the developer and
seller as a public street, the developer and seller shall certify that the
right-of-way and design of the street has been approved by the Division of
Highways, and that the street has been or will be constructed by the developer
and seller in accordance with the standards for subdivision streets adopted by
the Board of Transportation for acceptance on the highway system. If the street
is designated by the developer and seller as a private street, the developer
and seller shall include in the disclosure statement an explanation of the
consequences and responsibility as to maintenance of a private street, and
shall fully and accurately disclose the party or parties upon whom
responsibility for construction and maintenance of the street or streets shall
rest, and shall further disclose that the street or streets will not be
constructed to minimum standards, sufficient to allow their inclusion on the
state highway system for maintenance. The disclosure statement shall contain a
duplicate original which shall be given to the buyer. Written acknowledgment of
receipt of the disclosure statement by the buyer shall be conclusive proof of
the delivery thereof
            5.   Any other information considered by the subdivider and/or
Subdivision Administrator to be pertinent to the review of the plat.
         (f)   Certificates for all plats:
            1.   Certificate of ownership and dedication:
   I hereby certify that I am (we are) the owner(s) of the property shown and
described hereon, and that I (we) hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my
(our) free consent, and dedicate all roads and other sites and easements to
public use as noted in the Disclosure of Private Roadways, where applicable.
_________________________   ___________________________________
Date               Owner(s)
            2.   Certificate of survey and accuracy:
   I, ______________________________, certify that this plat was drawn under my
supervision from an actual survey made under my supervision (deed description
recorded in Book _____, page ______ and the like)(other); that the boundaries
not surveyed are clearly indicated as drawn from information found in Book_,
page that the ratio of precision as calculated is 1: _______, that this plat
was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30 as amended. Witness my original
signature, registration number and seal this _________ day of _______________
A.D., 20____.
Official Seal         _________________________________
            Registered Land Surveyor
            _________________________________
            Registration Number
   I, a Notary Public of the State aforesaid, certify that
___________________________________, a Registered Land Surveyor, personally
appeared before me this day and acknowledged the execution of the foregoing
instrument. Witness my hand and official stamp or seal, this ______ day of
20___.
Official Seal           __________________________________
            Notary Public
Notary's Typed or Printed Name ____________________________________
My commissioner expires __________________
            3.   Certificate of final approval and recording:
   I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Town of Columbus, North Carolina Subdivision Ordinance and that
this plat has been approved for recordation with the Polk County Register of
Deeds.
_______________________________   _________________________
Subdivision Administrator         Date
            4.   Review officer certification:
State of North Carolina
County of Polk
   _____________________________, Review Officer of Polk County, certify that
the map or plat to which this certification is affixed meets all statutory
requirements for recording.
______________________________
Review Officer
______________________________
Date
            5.   Certification of private water/septic systems (If applicable):
   If the Health Department has not approved private water or septic systems
then the following written statement shall be included on the plat:
"The District Health Department has expressed no opinion as to the suitability
of private septic or water systems on this property. Each lot is subject to
individual inspection and approval of septic systems."
         (g)   Certificates for major subdivision final plats only:
            1.   Certificate of approval of design and installation of streets,
utilities and other required improvements (if applicable):
   I hereby certify that all streets, public utilities and other required
improvements have been installed in an acceptable manner and according to N.C.
Department of Transportation and/or Town of Columbus specifications and
standards or as otherwise provided for in this chapter, or that guarantees for
the installation of the required improvements in an amount and manner
satisfactory to the Town of Columbus have been submitted.
Official Seal   _________________________   ________________   ___________
      Professional Engineer         Registration Number   Date
            2.   Private road maintenance statement (if applicable): a
maintenance statement for private roads shall be submitted to the Planning
Board with the final plat and recorded at the Register of Deeds at the time the
plat is recorded.
      (2)   Two-lot, family and special subdivision final plat submittal
requirements:
         (a)   Two full-size paper copies and one Mylar copy for signature; and
         (b)   One full-size paper copy of the recorded plat.
      (3)   Minor and major subdivision final plat submittal requirements:
         (a)   Two full-size paper copies and one Mylar copy for signature;
         (b)   One full-sized paper copy of the recorded plat; and
         (c)   One digital copy in .pdf and .dwg format.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish the requirements for
subdivision lot configuration, lot access, roadway layout, easements and
utilities to ensure sustainable and adequate subdivision design.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.61 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Each subdivision shall contain the improvements specified in this
subchapter, which shall be installed in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter and paid for by the subdivider, unless other means of financing
are specifically stated in this chapter.
   (B)   Land shall be dedicated and reserved in each subdivision as specified
in this subchapter.
   (C)   Each subdivision shall be constructed in accordance with minimum town,
state and federal design standards, as applicable.
   (D)   (1)   In order to lessen possible confusion which could hamper the
response time for emergency vehicles, the name of a subdivision shall not
duplicate nor closely approximate the name of an existing subdivision within
the town.
      (2)   The applicant is required to check with the Subdivision
Administrator prior to submission of the preliminary plat to avoid name
duplication/similarity issues.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.62 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT AND SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   Preservation of trees and natural features encouraged.
      (1)   Significant forest stands, natural vegetation, specimen trees,
severe natural topography, drainage features and water courses are encouraged
to be preserved to the extent that is reasonable and practical while otherwise
not reasonably prohibiting development.
      (2)   Forested and vegetated areas whose physical site conditions render
them unsuitable for development should be set aside as conservation areas or as
open space. Wooded sites should be developed with careful consideration of the
natural characteristics of the site. When portions of forested stands must be
developed, careful consideration should be given to preserving wooded
perimeters or the most desirable natural features in order to retain the
aesthetic or visual character of the site. Isolated pockets of existing trees
or specimen trees should be protected as a valuable asset of the property.
   (B)   Environmental survey.
      (1)   Environmental surveys are required at the preliminary plat stage
for all major subdivisions. Identification of existing trees, known endangered
species, wetlands, streams and creeks, floodplains and topographical features
on a site prior to the advanced preparation of development plans enables the
reasonable and practical planned preservation of existing vegetation while
considering unique site conditions. An environmental survey is intended to
identify forest stands, distinctive tree lines or forest edges, existing
watercourses, and previously documented endangered species habitats.
      (2)   An environmental survey shall be completed as part of the
preliminary plat in accordance with §
153.48 above. Photographs representative of the properties features shall also
be presented. The Planning Board, upon review of the environmental survey and
findings that it is inaccurate or poorly done, may request the survey be redone
by a professional environmental engineer.
   (C)   Steep terrain health protection.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The purpose and intent of this section is to regulate
development in steep slope areas in order to preserve the public health, safety
and general welfare of citizens, as well as preserve the unique character of
the town.
         (b)   The town is unique in its topography because it has mountainous
terrain, substantial rolling hillsides, as well as smaller foothills. There is
a higher risk associated with storm water drainage and a greater need for
stronger erosion control measures in the mountainous terrain and substantial
rolling hillsides.
         (c)   This section is intended to promote environmentally sound site
planning, as well as design practices that will significantly reduce risks
associated with storm drainage, ground water contamination and improper
disturbances in steep slope areas that cause erosion, structural failure of
structures and roads and other hazards.
         (d)   Development in steep slope areas within the town has an impact
on woody and herbaceous vegetation that provides a filtering effect that
directly affects water quality for all residents.
      (2)   Objectives. The following objectives serve as guidelines to fulfill
the purpose of this section:
         (a)   To protect life and property from potentially hazardous
conditions particular to mountains and hillsides such as storm water runoff,
erosion, slope failure and water contamination;
         (b)   To protect vegetation that serves to stabilize steep hillsides,
retain moisture, prevent erosion and enhance the town's natural scenic beauty;
         (c)   To encourage innovative site design and planning in order for
development to adapt to the natural terrain as well as be in harmony with the
character of the area; and
         (d)   To encourage road design that follows the natural topography
wherever possible in order to minimize erosion, slope failure and other
hazards.
      (3)   Applicability and exemptions.
         (a)   Except as exempted below, this section shall apply to all lots
having any slopes at 20% (five:one) or greater in a subdivision.
         (b)   Unless otherwise noted elsewhere, all subdivision regulations
and applicable ordinances are in addition to those set forth in this section.
         (c)   On the effective date of this section, property being subdivided
in phases and those contiguous properties having been purchased or under
contract for purchase as a part of the same subdivision shall not be required
to meet the applicability of this section if:
            1.   The entire tract of property to be subdivided is contiguous to
an ongoing phase of a subdivision owned and developed by the same person or
entity;
            2.   A master plan of the contiguous property phases is submitted
for approval by the Planning Board no later than June 1, 2007. The master plan
shall follow the requirements of §
153.32; and
            3.   The contiguous property was the legal property of the person
or entity or under contract for purchase by the person or entity on or before
June 1, 2007.
      (4)   Establishment of steep terrain area.
         (a)   Steep terrain areas shall be identified on all site plans by a
surveyor licensed to practice in the state with accurate calculations as to the
acreage within each individual lot having a slope of 20% or greater. See the
slope description diagram below.
         (b)   The master plan or preliminary plat provided by the person or
entity subdividiing said property shall include the calculations for review by
the Administrator.
         (c)   The County GIS system shall be an additional resource for the
Administrator's determination of acceptability.
      (5)   Regulated activity and authority.
         (a)   For any portion of the acreage with a 20% slope or greater, the
slope area at or above 20% grade shall be counted at 50% of its area. For
example, in an area where the minimum lot size is two acres:
            1.   A two-acre lot with one acre having a 20% or greater slope
would be calculated as being one and one-half acres in area and would thus
require additional acreage to meet the two-acre requirement; and
            2.   A lot of five acres with two acres having a 20% or greater
slope would be calculated as being four acres in area and would therefore meet
the ordinance requirement.
         (b)   A simple calculation method is to take the portion of property
within the lot in question that has a slope of 20% or greater and divide it by
two. The resulting sum plus the balance of the property having a slope less
than 20% must equal at least the minimum lot required as described by the
Zoning Ordinance.
            1.   Subdivisions subject to this section if choosing to light the
streets, shall install light fixtures of a type to emit the light toward the
ground below and should be constructed and placed in a manner as to cause the
least emission of lumens toward surfaces other than those directly beneath the
fixture.
            2.   Subdivisions subject to this section shall comply with those
road specifications set forth in the current ordinance and use stabilizing
techniques to strengthen banks of roadways within the subdivision.
               a.   The techniques include any of the following approved by an
engineer: retaining walls of materials sufficient to enhance both the safety of
the roadway and appearance; or appropriate hydro seeding to stabilize the
surface to both enhance the safety of the roadway land appearance; or any other
method approved by the Administrator.
               b.   Where the possibility of slope failure is deemed
sufficiently likely by an engineer, the Administrator is authorized to require
the construction of a "bench" road, where no part of the road is built on fill.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1270.jpg]
 
   (D)   Solid waste and soil safety.
      (1)   Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall not be
subdivided unless tests by the District Health Department, a structural
engineer and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
proposed.
      (2)   Areas that have been used for domestic sludge application shall be
required to have a soils test performed by a certified testing laboratory prior
to the subdivision of land. The results of the soils test must confirm that the
land is safe for the purposes proposed.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.63 LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall abut on an approved public or private street.
   (B)   It is not permitted to average the lot areas in a subdivision to meet
the minimum lot areas established in this section. However, cluster
developments shall be allowed in accordance with §
153.64 below.
   (C)   Lot lines shall be drawn to the right-of-way of any adjacent road
except where an existing property line is drawn within an existing road right-
of-way.
   (D)   For lots utilizing private water and septic systems, all lots shall be
adequate in size to accommodate 100% replacement of individual septic systems
as per Health Department regulations. Also, prior to final plat approval, each
multi-family residential development shall receive written approval from the
District Health Department if municipal water and sewer services are not
available. The approval shall state that the lot(s) proposed for multi-family
residential units is (are) adequate to accommodate the proposed multi-family
residential use.
   (E)   The Planning Board, upon recommendation by the Administrator, may
approve the limited use of pan handle lots where it is impractical to serve an
isolated lot by an existing or proposed road. A pan handle lot shall have a
minimum road frontage of 35 feet for an access strip to an isolated building
site. The access strip should not exceed 300 feet in length and the access
strip shall not be used to calculate the minimum lot area unless the strip
exceeds 70 feet in width.
   (F)   Minimum lot size requirements and setbacks are contained in the Zoning
Ordinance (
Chapter 154).
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.64 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The intent of a cluster development is to provide an alternative to
standard residential development practices. This land development technique
involves locating clusters of home sites on smaller lots than those permitted
under conventional development regulations with the remaining "saved" land
being retained as common open space. The permanent common open space, legally
dedicated through subdivision plat recordation and deed restriction, can be
used for natural conservation and/or recreational facilities for community
benefit.
   (B)   A cluster development shall be considered a major subdivision.
   (C)   Clustering is permitted in any residential zoning district. A
developer may create lots that are smaller and arranged differently than those
required by the standard zoning district regulations provided the developer
complies with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Cluster developments shall be serviced only by public water and sewer
systems.
   (E)   The minimum size for a cluster development shall be 12 contiguous
acres in the RE zoning district, and one and one-half contiguous acres in the
R-1 and R-2 zoning districts.
   (F)   The proposed density for a cluster subdivision (dwelling units per
acre) shall conform to that permitted in the district in which the development
is located. The density shall be determined by dividing the total number of
square feet of the property by the minimum lot size requirement of a single-
family dwelling in the underlying zoning district in which the development is
proposed.
   (G)   The normal lot area, lot widths and setback requirements are hereby
waived for cluster developments. All zoning district height requirements shall
be met.
   (H)   Cluster developments shall have a minimum road frontage of 50 feet.
   (I)   The minimum open space dedication for any cluster development shall be
50%.
   (J)   Refer to §
153.65 below for additional open space requirements.
   (K)   An open space management plan must be filed with the County Register
of Deeds. This plan must legally describe the dedicated open space and that the
ownership of the space is divided equally between the building lot owners and
that they share on an equal basis, the use of the open space and the costs of
maintaining and improving the open space and any improvements thereon.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.65 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is for the preservation of existing
environmental resources and open space. These elements are of economic value to
the town and make it a desirable place to live and visit.
      (2)   The requirements of this section apply to new developments with six
or more residential dwelling units (major subdivisions) in which the
construction of new roads is proposed. Developments in which all lots are five
acres or more are exempt from this provision.
   (B)   General provisions for open space.
      (1)   Land designated as open space on the approved development plan
shall be maintained as open space and may not be separately sold, subdivided or
developed.
      (2)   Access from a public or private street shall be provided to all
designated open space with a minimum 15-foot wide access to the open space
area.
      (3)   Open space shall be contiguous wherever possible.
      (4)   Town plans, particularly park and open space plans, shall be
considered when evaluating proposals for dedication.
   (C)   Minimum open space dedication.
      (1)   Open space shall be dedicated in accordance with the table below.
Percentages are based on total development area.
 
Density                                                     Percent Open Space
Less than 1 unit per 5 acres (less than 0.2 DUA)            NA
Between 1 unit per 5 acres and 1 unit per 2 acres (0.2-.0.5 10%
DUA)
More than 1 unit per 2 acres (more than 0.5 DUA)            15%
 
      (2)   Open space in major subdivisions to which the regulations of this
section apply and which are designed for at least 15 residential dwelling units
shall include at least one park area. For the purposes of this division (C)(2)
park space may be combined with playground space as those terms are defined in
division (D) below. The amount of park space required shall be computed by
first allotting one-half acre of park space for the first 15 dwelling units
proposed and adding an additional half acre of park space for every 50 dwelling
units thereafter created. Park facilities required by this part may count
toward a maximum of 50% of an applicant's open space dedication obligation
under division (C)(1) above. It is recommended that the park space be designed
and sited as one centralized contiguous park. If the park space required by
this division (C)(2) is proposed to be broken into more than two non-contiguous
smaller parks, then the area requirement shall be increased by 50%. The board
or governing body charged with the responsibility of approving the proposed
subdivision shall have and utilize discretion in approving multiple smaller
parks (also known as pocket parks). If the proposed subdivision is to be a
phased subdivision development, then the area of land that is to be the park
area shall be defined prior to final plat approval and set aside and dedicated
as such before beginning development of the initial phase; development of the
park space situated in each phase, if any, shall proceed concurrently with the
development of that phase. At least 10% of the park space required by this
division (C)(2) shall be sited and located within the boundaries of the
proposed first phase of development.
   (D)   Types of open space. All required open space shall be classified in
accordance with this section. Dedicated open space shall fit into one of the
following categories and be classified as private common area open space or
public open space.
      (1)   Playground. Playgrounds are for active recreational use and provide
sunny and shaded play equipment and play areas for children as well as open
shelter with benches. Playgrounds may be part of other types of open space,
such as parks, or may stand alone. Minimum size: 10,000 square feet. Maximum
size: 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Square. Squares are areas for passive recreational use. Squares
shall be bounded by streets on a minimum of 50% of their perimeter. Squares are
encouraged to be entirely bounded by streets and/or lanes. Squares shall be
planted parallel to all streets and shall contain canopy trees along street
frontages. Minimum size: 2,000 square feet. Maximum size: one acre.
      (3)   Park. Parks may be designed for passive and/or active recreational
use. Parks shall be bounded by streets on a minimum of 10% of their perimeter.
Large parks should create a central open space which services an entire
neighborhood or group of neighborhoods; or incorporates physical features which
are an asset to the community (i.e. lake or river frontage, high ground,
significant stands of trees). Undergrowth should be limited and landscaping
shall be installed in a manner that promotes attractiveness and safety. Parks
may be combined with greenways and greenbelts and may include golf courses and
community gardens. Minimum size: one acre.
      (4)   Green. The green is an open space which is more natural. Like the
square, it is small and surrounded by buildings. Unlike the square, it is
informally planted and may have irregular topography. Greens are usually
landscaped with trees at the edges and open lawns at the center. Greens should
contain no structures other than benches, pavilions, and memorials; paths are
optional. Minimum size: 20,000 square feet.
      (5)   Greenway. Greenways are large, irregular open spaces designed to
incorporate natural settings such as creeks and significant stands of trees
within and between neighborhoods. Greenways are typically more natural and may
contain irregular topography. Greenways shall be used for certain active
recreational uses including, at a minimum, trails for walking, jogging, and
biking. Greenways shall connect points of interest in the community such as
schools, parks and other civic uses.
      (6)   Greenbelt. Greenbelts run along the perimeter of a neighborhood,
and serve to buffer. neighborhood from surrounding non-compatible uses such as
a highway corridor or industrial district, or a developed area from
agricultural areas or adjacent towns. Greenbelts differ from the other types of
open spaces in that they are left natural, and are not intended for
recreational use.
      (7)   Agricultural preserve. Open spaces designated as Agricultural
Preserves shall be used for active farming in the form of crop cultivation, the
keeping of livestock, or equestrian facilities. Agricultural preserves are
encouraged to protect areas of agricultural and rural heritage and promote
compatible active agricultural operations. Minimum size: five acres.
      (8)   Nature preserve. Open spaces designated as Nature preserves shall
be left largely undisturbed except for the optional clearing of underbrush for
the provision of a walking trail (mulch or other natural material only). Nature
preserve areas are encouraged to protect large stands of trees, wildlife, and
natural water features. Nature preserves are the preferred form of open space
for steep slopes in excess of 25% grade. Minimum size: three acres.
   (E)   Open space ownership and maintenance.
      (1)   Open space may be owned or administered by one or a combination of
the following methods:
         (a)   Fee simple ownership by a unit of government or private non-
profit land conservancy;
         (b)   Common ownership by Homeowners Association;
         (c)   Split deeded ownership by individual property owners within the
subdivision;
         (d)   By individual private ownership such as a farmer, developer or
other private entity that maintains the open space in accordance with the
purposes of this section, (i.e. farming, equestrian facility and the like,
excluding confined livestock operations); and/or
         (e)   Deed restricted open space easements on individual private
properties.
      (2)   The Town Council shall have the authority to accept or reject land
dedications made as a requirement of this section. They shall also have
authority to sell land accepted pursuant to this section with the proceeds of
the sale used only for the acquisition, expansion or improvement of recreation,
park, or open space sites.
      (3)   The owner of dedicated open space shall be responsible for the
continuing upkeep and proper maintenance of the same.
      (4)   In the case of common ownership by a Homeowners Association, the
restrictive covenants shall provide that, in the event the Homeowners
Association fails to maintain the open space according to the standards of this
section, the town may, following reasonable notice, demand that deficiency of
maintenance be corrected, or enter the open space to maintain it. The cost of
the maintenance shall be charged to the Homeowners Association.
      (5)   The developer shall place in a conspicuous manner upon the final
plat of the subdivision prior to final plat approval a notation concerning
control of open space.
      (6)   The developer will provide proof of registration of the articles of
incorporation with the appropriate state agency for the formation of the
Homeowners Association to the Community Development Department.
      (7)   Homeowners' Associations or similar legal entities that are
responsible for the maintenance and control of open space areas and common
areas shall be established by the developer who shall record in the Register of
Deeds a declaration of covenants and restrictions that will govern the
association or similar legal entity. A copy of the recorded document shall be
provided to the Administrator and the document shall include, but not be
limited to, the following.
         (a)   Provision for the establishment of the association or similar
entity is required before any lot in the development is sold or any building
occupied and membership shall be mandatory for each homeowner and any
successive buyer.
         (b)   The association or similar legal entity has clear legal
authority to maintain and exercise control over the common open space areas.
         (c)   The association or similar legal entity has the power to compel
contributions from residents of the development to cover their proportionate
shares of the costs associated with the maintenance and upkeep of the common
areas. Further, assessments levied can become a lien on the property if allowed
in the master deed establishing the homeowners association or similar legal
entity.
         (d)   The open space restrictions must be permanent, not just for a
period of years.
         (e)   The association or similar legal entity must be responsible for
liability insurance, applicable taxes and the maintenance of open space and
other facilities under their control.
         (f)   The association or similar legal entity must be able to adjust
the assessment to meet changing needs.
         (g)   The association shall be responsible for maintaining all public
storm water drainage systems and easements within the subdivision not being
maintained by the town, county, state or other approved entity.
         (h)   It shall be expressly stated within the restrictive covenants/
homeowners association documents that it will be the responsibility of the
developer or successors or assigns to enforce such covenants or restrictions
until such time as control has been transferred to the Homeowners Association
Board of Directors. It shall be the sole responsibility of the developer,
successor or assigns to correct any deficiencies prior to transfer of control
over to the Homeowners Association Board of Directors.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.66 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utility easements. Utility easements shall be provided, where
necessary, preferably centered on the side or rear lot lines and shall be at
least ten feet wide.
   (B)   Buffer easement.
      (1)   The Administrator may require a buffer easement not exceeding ten
feet in width adjacent to a major street or between dissimilar uses of land.
      (2)   The Administrator also may require that the subdivider either
arrange for, or be responsible for, the grading and planting of the buffer
easement.
   (C)   Crosswalk easement. A crosswalk easement of at least ten feet in width
shall be provided if required by the Administrator.
   (D)   Family subdivision road easements. All lots within a family
subdivision may be accessed by a road easement providing a road maintenance
agreement is signed by all affected parties and recorded with the family
subdivision plat.
   (E)   Water course and drainage easements.
      (1)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of the water course.
      (2)   If an easement is required for physical improvements to control
drainage, it must be shown on the final plat, including access to the easement
for repairs.
      (3)   The drainage way shall be of sufficient width to carry storm water
runoff from a ten-year storm.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.67 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ROAD DESIGN.
   (A)   Marginal access streets. Where a tract of land to be subdivided joins
a principal arterial street, the subdivider may be required to provide a
marginal access street parallel to the arterial street or reverse frontage on a
minor street for the lots to be developed adjacent to the arterial. Where
reverse frontage is established, private driveways shall be prevented from
having direct access to the principal arterial.
   (B)   Access to adjacent properties. Where, in the opinion of the Planning
Board, it is necessary to provide street access to an adjoining property,
proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary of the property and a
temporary turn-around provided.
   (C)   Nonresidential streets. The subdivider of a nonresidential subdivision
shall provide streets in accordance with the most recent edition of the NCDOT
Division of Highways, Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards.
   (D)   Blocks. The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks should be determined
with due regard to: provision of adequate building sites suitable to the
special needs of the type of use contemplated; local ordinances; needs for
vehicular and pedestrian circulation and control of street traffic; and
limitations and opportunities of topography.
   (E)   Intersections.
      (1)   Subdivision streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly
as possible at right angles, and no street shall intersect any other street at
an angle less than 60 degrees.
      (2)   Right-of-ways at street intersections shall be rounded with a
minimum radius of 20 feet. At an angle of intersection of less than 75 degrees,
a greater radius may be required.
      (3)   Where public and private streets intersect, the design standards of
the NCDOT Division of Highways, Subdivision Roads Minimum Construction
Standards shall apply.
      (4)   Offset intersections are to be avoided unless exception is granted
by the Planning Board and Town Council. Intersections which cannot be aligned
should be separated by a minimum length of 200 feet between survey centerlines.
      (5)   Intersections with arterial, collectors and thoroughfares (major
intersections) shall be at least 1,000 feet from centerline to centerline, or
more if required by the Planning Board and Town Council.
   (F)   Cul-de-sacs.
      (1)   Permanent dead end streets should not exceed 2,500 feet in length
unless necessitated by topography or property accessibility.
      (2)   When cul-de-sacs are required to exceed 2,500 feet in length,
vehicle turn-arounds shall be provided at 1,000 foot intervals. The required
turn-around on a dead end road in a subdivision shall have an unobstructed
roadway radius of not less than 35 feet.
      (3)   If the road length does not exceed 300 feet and if construction
difficulties will not permit a turnaround, the use of "Y" or a "T" or other
turning space of a design which will allow a vehicle with a wheel base of at
least 25 feet to complete a turning movement with a maximum of one backing
movement, shall be permitted.
      (4)   Cul-de-sacs shall not be used to avoid the extension of a road,
unless an exception is granted by the Planning Board and Town Council.
   (G)   Through traffic.
      (1)   Residential collector and local streets shall be laid out in such a
way that their use by through traffic will be discouraged.
      (2)   Streets shall be designed or walkways dedicated to assure
convenient access to parks, playgrounds, schools or other places of public
assembly.
   (H)   Street names.
      (1)   Proposed streets which are obviously in alignment with existing
streets shall be given the same name.
      (2)   In assigning new names, duplication of existing names shall be
avoided, and in no case shall the proposed name be phonetically similar to
existing names irrespective of the use of a suffix such as street, road, drive,
place, court and the like.
   (I)   Street lighting. All developers shall refer to the town lighting
policy if they choose to install street lights in any subdivision.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.68 PUBLIC ROAD STANDARDS.
   (A)   Public roads defined. A public street or road is defined as a
dedicated public right-of-way for vehicular traffic which affords access to
abutting properties, and is intended to be taken over by the State Department
of Transportation (NCDOT).
   (B)   Public road dedication and maintenance.
      (1)   All roads proposed for public use by the developer and seller,
including those proposed streets which are not eligible to be placed on the
state highway system because there are too few lots or residences, shall be
dedicated to the public and shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with the standards necessary to make the streets eligible to be put on the
state system at a later date.
      (2)   A written maintenance agreement sufficient for recording in the
Office of the Register of Deeds shall be submitted with the final plat. The
maintenance agreement will provide for the subdivider or a property owner's
association to maintain the street, drainage facilities and right-of-way until
a time as the street is accepted for maintenance by the state.
   (C)   Public road design.
      (1)   Public streets shall be designed and constructed in accordance with
the requirements of the most recent edition of NCDOT, Division of Highways,
Subdivision Roads, Minimum Construction Standards.
      (2)   If a request for dedication of public roads is made, inspection and
approval by the NCDOT must have taken place, and roads must be inspected and
approved by the organization, but acceptance is not required, before the final
plat can be approved by the Subdivision Administrator.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.69 PRIVATE ROAD STANDARDS.
   (A)   Private roads defined.
      (1)   A PRIVATE STREET OR ROAD is defined as a dedicated private right-
of-way which affords access to abutting properties, and is required to be built
to the road design standards listed in this section of the ordinance. All new
private roads shall directly access a state-maintained road or shall connect to
a private road meeting the standards of this section.
      (2)   New roads within a subdivision may be designated by the subdivider
as private, provided all streets proposed for private use shall be limited to
the following:
         (a)   Streets providing exclusive access to residential subdivisions
and private resort developments;
         (b)   Streets in subdivisions or portions of subdivisions serving too
few lots for inclusion into the state secondary road system; and
         (c)   Streets providing exclusive access to family subdivisions.
      (3)   A private local subdivision road includes:
         (a)   Cul-de-sac or dead end roads less than 2,500 feet in length;
         (b)   Short roads that connect blocks; and/or
         (c)   Other roads that do not connect to thoroughfares or serve major
traffic generators.
      (4)   A private subdivision collector road includes:
         (a)   Cul-de-sac or dead end roads more than 2,500 feet in length;
         (b)   Connecting roads between the local residential subdivision roads
and the thoroughfare system;
         (c)   Loop roads more than 5,280 feet (one mile) in length; and
         (d)   Other roads having a "collector" type function in the
thoroughfare system.
   (B)   Maintenance of private roads. All subdivision plats which include
private roads shall be accompanied by a disclosure statement (G.S. § 136-102.6)
for recording, which provides for the maintenance of any kind and all private
streets designated within a subdivision by a property owner's association.
   (C)   Private road design.
      (1)   No road in an area subject to flooding shall be approved if any
portion is more than two feet below the elevation of a 100-year flood.
         (a)   The Subdivision Administrator and/or the Planning Board may
require, where necessary, profiles and elevations of roads for areas subject to
flooding. Fill may be used for roads provided the fill does not unduly increase
flood heights.
         (b)   Drainage openings for roads in areas subject to flooding shall
be provided and shall be so designed as to not restrict the flow of water and
unduly increase flood heights. The Subdivision Administrator and/or the
Planning Board will require a state-certified engineer stamp stating that the
road is suitable for use in a floodplain.
      (2)   Every road shall be designed to accommodate a ten-year storm water
run-off by natural or artificial means.
      (3)   Road signs shall be installed and maintained by the developer and/
or the Homeowners' Association and shall be approved by the County Emergency
Management office at all intersections within the subdivision.
      (4)   The following minimum dimensional standards shall apply for private
local subdivision roads:
Road Element Dimension
Road Element                              Dimension
Minimum right-of-way width                45 feet
Minimum road surface width
   One to five lots                    12 feet
   Six to 15 lots                      16 feet
   Fifteen +                           20 feet
Minimum road surface                      Six-inch gravel
Minimum cul-de-sac right-of-way radius    50 feet
Minimum cul-de-sac surface radius         35 feet
Minimum shoulder width                    3 feet
Maximum cut and fill slopes               1.5:1
Design speed                              20 mph
Minimum sight distance on vertical curves 110 feet
Minimum centerline radius                 90 feet
Minimum superelevation rate for minimum   0.02 feet per 1 foot
radius
Maximum grade                             18%
Maximum grade within 100 feet of          5% (unless deemed safe by engineer)
intersection
K=Rate of vertical curvature for minimum sight distance*
CREST                                     Ten
SAG                                       Ten
STOP                                      Five
*Apply the following formula: L=KA; Where: L=Length; K=Rate of vertical
curvature for minimum sight distance; A=Algebraic difference in grades in
percent
 
      (5)   The following minimum dimensional standards shall apply for private
subdivision collector roads:
Road Element Dimension
Road Element                               Dimension
Minimum right-of-way width                 50 feet
Minimum road surface width                 20 feet
Minimum road surface                       Six-inch gravel
Minimum cul-de-sac right-of-way radius     50 feet
Minimum cul-de-sac surface radius          35 feet
Minimum shoulder width                     Three feet
Max. cut and fill slopes                   1.5:1
Design speed                               25 mph
Minimum sight distance on vertical curves  150 feet
Minimum centerline radius                  150 feet
Minimum superelevation rate for minimum    0.04 feet per one foot
radius
Max. grade                                 18%
Max. grade within 100 feet of intersection 5% (unless deemed safe by engineer)
K = Rate of vertical curvature for minimum sight distance*
CREST                                      20
SAG                                        20
STOP                                       9
*Apply the following formula: L = KA; L = Length; K = Rate of vertical
curvature for minimum sight distance; A=Algebraic difference in grades in
percent
 
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.70 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   Connection to system required.
      (1)   Any development which has town water and/or sewer system lines
available shall be required to extend the public water and/or sewer system
throughout the development to each lot located therein. All required line
extensions shall include appropriate valves, hydrants, taps, service, manholes,
lift stations, pumps and clean outs to the property line of each lot as
required by town standards.
      (2)   In any case where a public water and/or sewer system intended to
serve more than two lots is proposed to be installed in a development as part
of the plan approval process, the system shall be considered to be a required
improvement within the context of this section regardless of whether such a
system is an extension of the town system or not and the system shall be
required to be installed by the developer. This requirement includes both
facilities within the development and off-site facilities which are essential
to providing the service to the property.
      (3)   Where public sanitary water and sewer are not available as defined
below in division (B), structures shall be connected to private water supply
and sewage disposal systems (i.e. wells and septic tanks or community systems).
   (B)   Availability defined.
      (1)   For developments within or partially within the town, the term
AVAILABLE, shall mean that there is an existing line of adequate size and flow
and/or pressure either crossing the development property or immediately
available from an adjacent public right-of-way or the town indicates its
commitment to extend such a line to the property line of the development at no
cost to the developer.
      (2)   For developments located entirely outside the boundaries of the
town but within the jurisdiction of this chapter, "availability" shall be
determined by the threshold levels indicated in the table below. Within the
range of lots, water and/or sewer lines shall be within the distance indicated
to be considered "available", extension of the water and/or sewer lines shall
be paid for by the developer, and the development shall be connected to the
system. For example, if the water and sewer lines are within 300 feet of a
proposed 15 lot subdivision, then the developer shall pay for the extension and
the development shall be connected to the system. If a nonresidential
subdivision is proposed, comparable demand estimates for residential uses shall
be used.
 
Number of Proposed Lots Distance to Nearest Line (Feet)
Zero to ten             200
11 to 20                300
21 to 50                600
51 to 100               1,000
101 or greater          2,500
 
   (C)   Exemption from extension of lines. In the event the town elects not to
extend a line of sufficient size, flow and/or pressure, to the development (if
in the town) or within 400 feet of the development boundary (if outside the
town) because of topographic features, legal obstacles or financial reasons,
then, the developer shall not be required to extend water lines to each lot nor
provide water and/or sewer service to the development.
   (D)   Annexation required. In any case where a new development connects to
the town water and/or sewer system, the development shall be voluntarily
annexed into the town prior to the approval of a final plat, for a subdivision,
or the issuance of a zoning permit, where the subdivision of land is not
involved.
   (E)   Installation requirements.
      (1)   All water and sewer extensions for new development inside or
outside the corporate limits will be made by the town's Public Works Department
or approved licensed contractors.
      (2)   No water or sewer line may be connected to the system of the town
unless the line is properly designed and constructed to service the properties
intended to be served directly by the line and of a size and design sufficient
to accommodate any necessary expansion of the water and sewer system to serve
other properties, including fire protection.
      (3)   The town shall own and control any and all water and sewer lines
and related facilities connected to and serviced by its water or sewer system,
except those lines and facilities of other public bodies connected to and
serviced by the town's water or sewer system under contracts approved by the
Town Council between the town and other public bodies.
      (4)   Because the extension of water or sewer lines to certain properties
benefits the owners of the properties by raising property values, the cost of
the extension shall be borne by the developers of the properties as provided in
this subchapter except in instances when the Town Council makes a determination
that the town is obligated to extend the utilities when it determines that it
is the best interest of the town to do so. In making such a conclusion, it must
be demonstrated by the developer to the Town Council that ad valorem taxes to
be gained by the town from the properties which will be served by the proposed
utilities will over a five-year period exceed the cost incurred by the town for
making the utility extensions.
   (F)   Extensions required by state law and emergency situations. To comply
with municipal obligations by state statutes or in cases of emergency where it
is found to be in the public interest or necessary to protect the public
health, the town may authorize extensions of water or sanitary sewer into
specific areas.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.71 PRIVATE WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   Submittal requirements and approval.
      (1)   If the subdivision in question is to have a sewer system other than
one connected to a municipal system, the following is required:
         (a)   Depiction of the system and its location with sufficient area
for repair if needed;
         (b)   An engineered plan as to the system; and
         (c)   Sealed approval of the local District Health Department.
      (2)   The local Health Department or agency currently in authority, shall
certify that the soil conditions are suitable to support a septic system.
      (3)   All preliminary plats which will require the installation of any
water and/or sewerage systems prior to final plat approval shall be accompanied
by a written application and/or notice submitted to the appropriate state or
local agency responsible for approving the particular system or systems.
   (B)   Subdivisions with individual septic and wells.
      (1)   A subdivision containing individual septic systems and individual
wells shall conform to those requirements as set forth by the local Health
Department or agency currently in authority as to sewer disposal.
      (2)   There shall be no requirement as to a well or septic system being
in place prior to sale of any lot or parcel.
   (C)   Water quality and quantity standards.
      (1)   No water supply system shall deliver water without first having the
water tested by a certified laboratory and the test approved by the state and/
or agency thereof having responsibility for water quality assurance. (This
provision shall not apply to an individual well providing water to a single-
family residence located on the property of the well).
      (2)   Any and all water systems including but not limited to individual
wells shall comply with the appropriate standards set forth by the state and/or
any agency granted authority to regulate and/or otherwise enforce regulations.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.72 UTILITIES.
   All utilities in any subdivision shall be placed underground and within the
street right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.73 STORM WATER DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by evidence satisfactory to
the Planning Board and Town Council as to the proposed method of providing for
storm water drainage.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to provide a drainage
system which is designed to meet the following objectives:
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
sewer;
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system;
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system feasibly cannot be extended
to the subdivision, a drainage system shall be designed to protect the proposed
development and adjacent properties from water damage;
      (4)   Stormwater design shall follow the most recent edition of NCDENR
Division of Water Quality Stormwater Best Management Practices;
      (5)   Surface drainage courses shall have side slopes, where feasible, or
at least two feet of horizontal distance for each one foot of vertical distance
(two:one). Courses should be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage
area and be designed to comply with the standards and specifications for
erosion control as required by the State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act,
G.S. Ch. 113k, Art. 4, § 143-34.12, and the State Administration Code Title 15,
Chapter 4, and any locally adopted erosion and sedimentation control ordinance;
      (6)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
shall be a vertical fall of at least one foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance;
      (7)   Stream banks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased degradation by accelerated erosion
caused by increased velocity of runoff from the land disturbing activity in
accordance with the State Sedimentation Pollution Control Act, G.S. Ch. 113A,
Art. 4, and the State Administrative Code Title 15, Chapter 4, and any locally
adopted erosion and sedimentation control ordinances; and
      (8)   Any dam constructed within a subdivision which is greater than 15
feet in height (measured from the lowest point on downstream top of the dam to
the highest point on the fill) and is also greater than ten acre-feet in area
(measured from the top of the dam) shall comply with the State Dam Safety Law
of 1967, being G.S. §§ 143-215.23 et seq., and the State Administrative Code
Title 15, Subchapter 2K.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.74 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Where public water is available, fire hydrants shall be installed
every 500 feet.
   (B)   In subdivisions where public water is not available and where there is
an existing or proposed pond feature, a dry hydrant shall be provided for area
fire protection wherever possible.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.75 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   The preliminary plat shall be accompanied by a written statement from the
State Department of Environment and Natural Resources (NCDENR) that any
required soil erosion and sedimentation control plan has been approved.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.76 SURVEYING.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, permanent reference points shall
have been placed in accordance with the following requirements.
   (A)   Subdivision corner tie. At least one corner of the subdivision shall
be designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily discernible reference
marker. If a corner is within 2,000 feet of a U.S. Coast and Geodetic Station
or State Grid System coordinated monument, then this corner shall be marked
with a monument so designated by computed X and Y coordinates which shall
appear on the map with a statement identifying this station or monument. When
such a monument or station is not available, the tie shall be made to some
pertinent and readily recognizable land marker or identifiable point, physical
object or structure.
   (B)   Monuments. Within each block of a subdivision at least two monuments
designed and designated as control corners shall be installed. The surveyor
shall employ additional monuments if and when required. All monuments shall be
constructed of concrete and be at least four inches in diameter or square and
not less than three feet in length. Each monument shall have imbedded in the
top or attached by a suitable means a metal plate of non-corrosive materials
and marked plainly with the point, the surveyor's registration number, the
month and year it was installed, and the words "monument" or "control corner."
A monument shall be set at least 30 inches in the ground with at least six
inches exposed above the ground unless this requirement is impractical.
   (C)   Property markers. A steel or iron pipe or the equivalent not less than
three-fourths inches in diameter and at least 30 inches in length shall be set
at all corners, except those located by monuments. A marker shall also be set
at a point of curve, point of intersection, property corner, point of urgency
and reference point unless a monument has already been placed at those points.
Additional markers shall be placed at other points as required.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.77 CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
   No building or other permits shall be issued for the erection or location of
a structure, nor shall any construction or installation of improvements
commence in a proposed subdivision until the preliminary plat and any required
soil erosion and sedimentation control plan have been approved.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   After the effective date of this chapter, any person who being the
owner or the agent of the owner of any land located within the territorial
jurisdiction of this chapter, thereafter subdivides his or her land in
violation of this chapter or transfers or sells land by reference to,
exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a subdivision of the land
before the plat has been properly approved under the terms of this chapter and
recorded in the Office of the County Register of Deeds, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer
or other document used in the process of selling or transferring land shall not
exempt the transaction from this penalty. The town, through its attorney or
other official designated by the Town Council, may enjoin illegal subdivision,
transfer or sale of land by action for injunction. Further, violators of this
chapter shall be subject, upon conviction, to fine and/or imprisonment as
provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 to be recovered by the town.
Violators shall be issued a written citation which must be paid within ten
days. Each day's continuing violation of this chapter shall be a separate and
distinct offense.
   (C)   This chapter may be enforced by appropriate equitable remedies issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the use of
remedies available to the town. The town may seek to enforce this chapter by
using any one, all or a combination of remedies.
   (E)   For the purpose of this chapter, a deed of trust shall not be
considered a transfer or conveyance of real property.
(Ord. passed 5-17-2007)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title
   
154.002   Authority and enactment
   
154.003   Jurisdiction
   
154.004   Word interpretation
   
154.005   Definitions
   
154.006   Severability
Administration; Enforcement; Appeals
   
154.020   General duties and provisions
   
154.021   Zoning Administrator
   
154.022   Certificate of zoning compliance required
   
154.023   Requirements prior to issuance of a building permit
   
154.024   Building permit required
   
154.025   Certificate of occupancy required
   
154.026   Construction progress
   
154.027   Compliance
   
154.028   Appeal from the Zoning Administrator
Board of Planning and Adjustment
   
154.040   Establishment of Board of Planning and Adjustment
   
154.041   Selection of alternate members
   
154.042   Rules of conduct for members
   
154.043   General proceedings of the Board of Planning and Adjustment
   
154.044   Meetings
   
154.045   Powers and duties of the Board of Planning and Adjustment
   
154.046   Proceedings before the Board of Adjustment
Establishment of Zoning District and Map
   
154.060   Use districts
   
154.061   Establishment of district boundaries
   
154.062   Zoning map
   
154.063   Rules governing district boundaries
   
154.064   Statement of district intents
   
154.065   Permitted use table
   
154.066   Dimensional requirements
   
154.067   Building height overlay districts
   
154.068   Floor area
Conditional and Special Uses
   
154.080   Conditional use districts
   
154.081   Special provisions for conditional use districts and conditional use
permits
   
154.082   Special use permit procedures
   
154.083   Special use standards
Specific Provisions
   
154.095   Zoning affects every building and use
   
154.096   Relationship of building to lot
   
154.097   Required yards and other spaces
   
154.098   Accessory structures and buildings
   
154.099   Accessory dwelling units
   
154.100   Home occupations
   
154.101   Visibility at intersections
   
154.102   Vacant structures and lots
   
154.103   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles
   
154.104   Sedimentation control
   
154.105   Landscaping
   
154.106   Nonconforming uses
   
154.107   Outdoor lighting
   
154.108   Street edge
   
154.109   Pedestrian circulation
   
154.110   Off-street parking
   
154.111   Off-street loading and unloading space
   
154.112   Signs
   
154.113   Vending machines
   
154.114   Benches, dining tables and the like
   
154.115   Family care homes
   
154.116   Electronic gaming operations: maximum number of terminals
Exceptions and Modifications
   
154.125   Front yard setback for dwellings
   
154.126   Completion of buildings under construction
   
154.127   Height limitations
   
154.128   Temporary uses
Amendments
   
154.140   Amendments in general
   
154.141   Initiation of amendments
   
154.142   Application
   
154.143   Planning Board action
   
154.144   Public hearing
   
154.145   Decision
   
154.146   Protests
   
154.147   Rezoning costs
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Acceptable plant species
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Columbus,
North Carolina.
(Ord., Art. I, passed - -)
§ 154.002 AUTHORITY AND ENACTMENT.
   The Town Council, in pursuance of the authority granted by the G.S. Chapters
160A-381 through 160A-392, Art. 19, hereby ordain and enact into law the
following subchapter and sections for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
(Ord., Art. II, passed - -)
§ 154.003 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Zoning jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall be
applicable to all land within the corporate limits of the town, as established
on the map entitled "Official Zoning Map, Town of Columbus".
   (B)   Exemption. This chapter shall in no way regulate, prohibit or
otherwise deter any bonafide farm and its related uses, except that any use of
the property for non-farm purposes shall be subject to these regulations.
(Ord., Art. III, passed - -)
§ 154.004 WORD INTERPRETATION.
   Except as specifically defined herein, all words used in this chapter have
their customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of this chapter,
certain words or terms used herein are defined as follows, and these
definitions apply only to that subchapter and section of this chapter. Words
used in the present tense include the future tense. Words used in the singular
include the plural, and words used in the plural include the singular.
   BOARD OF PLANNING AND ADJUSTMENT. The Town of Columbus Board of Planning and
Adjustment. This Board serves to fulfill the duties of the town Planning Board
and the town Board of Adjustments. In the context of its planning
responsibilities, it is sometimes referred to in this chapter as the Planning
Board. In the context of its Board of Adjustment responsibilities, it is
sometimes referred to in this chapter as the Board of Adjustment or the Zoning
Board of Adjustment.
   BUILDING. Includes the word STRUCTURE.
   COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. The Polk County Board of Commissioners.
   LOT. Includes the words PLOT or PARCEL.
   MAY. Permissive.
   ORDINANCE. The Zoning Ordinance of the town.
   PERSON or APPLICANT. Includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, corporation, company, trust and an individual or governmental
unit.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   STREET. Includes the words ROAD and HIGHWAY.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town of Columbus Town Council.
   ZONING MAP or COLUMBUS ZONING MAP. The official zoning map of the town.
(Ord., Art. IV, § 400, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-25-2010)
§ 154.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. A self-contained apartment that is either attached
to a single-family home (known as an ACCESSORY APARTMENT) or in a separate
structure on a single-family lot (known as an ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT).
   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
use or building and located on the same lot with the principal use or building.
   AGRICULTURE. The commercial production, storage, processing, marketing,
distribution or export of any agronomic, floricultural, horticultural,
viticultural, silvicultural or aquacultural crop including, but not limited to,
farm products, livestock and livestock, products, poultry and poultry products,
milk and dairy products, fruit and other horticultural products, and seafood
and aquacultural products (Source: the "North Carolina Agricultural Finance
Act).
   ALLEY. A public way, which affords only a secondary, means of access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   APARTMENT. A part of a building consisting of a room or rooms intended,
designed or used as a residence by an individual or a single family.
   APARTMENT GARAGE. A part of a garage consisting of a room or rooms intended,
designed or used as a residence by an individual or a single family.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE. Human-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANIMATION. The movement, or the optical illusion of movement of any part of
the sign structure, design or pictorial segment including the movement of any
illumination or the flashing, scintillating or varying of light intensity. The
automatic changing of all or any part of the facing of a sign shall be
considered to be ANIMATION. Also included in this definition are signs having a
chasing action which is the action of a row of lights commonly used to create
the appearance of action.
   ANTENNA. Equipment used for transmitting or receiving radio frequency
signals, which is attached to a tower, building or other structure, usually
consisting of a series of directional panels, microwave or satellite dishes, or
omnidirectional "whip" antenna. This definition also includes transmission
lines between the ground-based equipment and the antenna.
   BANNERS, PENNANTS AND BALLOONS. Any animated, rotating, fluttering or
nonstationary device made of flexible materials designated to attract
attention.
   BONA FIDE FARM. All land on which agricultural operations are conducted as
the primary use, to include cultivation of crops and the husbandry of
livestock.
   BUFFER STRIP. Vegetation consisting of evergreen trees or shrubs located
along the side and rear lot lines, but along streets shall be set back
sufficiently to avoid interference with street right-of-way.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or by walls, and
intended for shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or property.
The connection of two buildings by means of an open porch, breezeway,
passageway, carport or other open structure, with or without a roof, shall not
be deemed to make them one BUILDING.
   BUILDING. ACCESSORY. A detached building subordinate to the main building on
a lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or principal
building and located on the same lot.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The distance measured from the highest ground level at the
structure foundation to the highest point on the roof.
   BUILDING. PRINCIPAL. A building used for the same purpose as the principal
use of the lot.
   BUILDING, SETBACK LINE. A line delineating the minimum allowable distance
between the property line and a building on a lot, within which no building or
other structure shall be placed except as otherwise provided. SETBACK LINES
shall be measured either from the highway right-of-way or from the centerline
of the highway, whichever is greater.
   BUSINESS DESIGNATION SIGN. A sign to designate the legal name of the
business.
   CANDELA. A measure of luminous or light intensity in a certain direction.
Useful in determining how much light is shining out of a fixture and in what
direction.
   COMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A lower, which supports communication (broadcast,
receiving or relay) equipment, utilized by commercial, government or other
public and quasi-public users. This does not include private home use of
satellite dishes and television antennas or amateur radio operators as licensed
by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land permitted in a Conditional Use District upon
approval by the Town Council as part of the conditional use rezoning process.
   DAY NURSERY AND PRIVATE KINDERGARTEN. A use of land and buildings to provide
group care for children.
   DIFFUSING PANEL (LENS). A translucent material covering the lamps in a
luminaire in order to reduce the brightness by distributing the light flux over
an extended area.
   DIRECT LIGHTING. Lighting involving luminaries that distribute 90 to 100% of
the emitted light in the general direction of the surface to the illuminated.
The term usually refers to light emitted in a downward direction.
   DISTRICT. A section of the town in which zoning regulations are uniform.
   DONATION BOX. A box, bin, dumpster, or other enclosed receptacle located
outside of an enclosed building used for the collection of donated items. A
donation box is considered "unattended" at times when no employee or
representative of the sponsoring company or organization is present to accept
donations.
   DOUBLE FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces, which are usually, but not
necessarily, parallel.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, providing complete and
permanent living facilities for one family.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by
one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building arranged or designed to be occupied by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof used or deigned as a
residence for no more than four families living independently.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner of a strip of land for specified
purpose and use by the public, a corporation or persons.
   ELECTRICAL SIGNS. A self-illuminated sign or sign structure in which the
electrical wiring, connections or fixtures are used as part of the sign proper.
   ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATION. Any business enterprise, whether as a primary
or an accessory use, where persons utilize electronic machines, including but
not limited to, computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games of chance,
including sweepstakes, and where further game credits, cash, merchandise or
other items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the
value of such distribution is determined by electronic games played or by
predetermined odds, This does not include any lottery approved by the State of
North Carolina.
   EXEMPT SIGN. Any sign that is specifically listed as exempt from this
chapter. The listed exempt signs are not regulated by the terms of this
chapter.
   EXISTING SIGN. Any sign that was erected or displayed prior to February 17,
2004 when the sign amendment was adopted.
   FACADE. The entire building wall, including wall face, parapet fascia,
windows, doors, canopy and roof on any complete elevation.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit, provided that
unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall
contain over five persons, but further provided that domestic servants employed
on the premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as a family
or families.
   FAMILY CARE HOME.  A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident persons with disabilities. PERSON
WITH DISABILITIES means a person with a temporary or permanent physical,
emotional or mental disability, including but not limited to, mental
retardation, cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments,
emotional disturbances and orthopedic impairments, but not including mentally
ill persons who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11).
   FIXTURE. An assembly that holds the lamp (bulb) in a lighting system. It
includes the elements designed to give light output control, such as a
reflector (mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast, housing and the attachment
parts.
   FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns,
or symbols, used as symbols of a government, political subdivision or other
entity.
   FLAT SIGN. A sign erected parallel to and extending out not more than 12
inches from the facade of any building to which it is attached and supported
throughout its entire length by the facade and not extending above the
building.
   FLOOD LAMP. A form of lighting designed to direct its output in a specific
direction with a reflector formed from the glass envelope of the lamp itself.
These LAMPS are so designated by the manufacturers and are typically used in
residential outdoor area lighting.
   FLOOD LIGHT. A form of lighting designed to direct its output in a diffuse,
more or less specific direction, with reflecting or refracting elements located
external to the lamp.
   FOOTCANDLE (FC). A quantitative unit measuring the amount of light
(illumination) falling onto a given point. One footcandle equals one lumen per
square foot.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported by a sign structure secured in the
ground and which is wholly independent of any building, fence, vehicle or
object other than the sign structure for support.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the property on any one premise serving as a public
right-of-way line.
   FRONTAGE WALL FACE. The building facade, excluding parapet, fascia, soffit,
mansard and roof, which face a frontage of the premises.
   GAME OF CHANCE. A game whose outcome is strongly influenced by randomizing
device, and upon which contestants may or may not wager money or anything of
monetary value.
   GLARE. The effect produced by a light source within the visual field that is
sufficiently brighter than the level to which the eyes are adapted, to cause
annoyance, discomfort or loss of visual performance and ability.
   GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. Any sign erected by or on the order of an authorized
public official in the performance of his or her office or duty including, but
not limited to, traffic control signs, street name signs, warning and
directional signs, public notice or signs of a similar nature.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The total floor area of all buildings in a project
including basements, mezzanines and upper floors, exclusive of stairways and
elevator shafts. It excludes separate services facilities outside the main
building such as boiler rooms and maintenance shops.
   GROSS RESIDENTIAL DENSITY. The number of dwelling units proposed to be built
divided by the area of the tract being developed.
   GROUP CARE FACILITY. An establishment qualified for a license by the state,
which provides resident services to individuals of whom one or more are
unrelated. The individuals are handicapped, aged or disabled, are undergoing
rehabilitation or extended care, and are provided services to meet their needs.
This category includes group homes for all ages, halfway houses and foster and
boarding houses, but does not include family care homes.
   HID. High intensity discharge lighting is a bulb type including mercury
vapor, metal halide, high pressure or low-pressure sodium, which glow when an
electric current is passed through a gas mixture inside the bulb.
   HOLIDAY/FESTIVE LIGHTING. Lighting that is installed with the intent to
operate during a designated temporary period of time where a specific theme or
event is a focus of attention.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation conducted entirely within a dwelling and
carried on by the occupants thereof provided that: the use of the dwelling unit
for the home occupation shall me clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling for residential purposes, and the occupation shall be carried on
solely within the main dwelling and shall not occupy more than 25% of the floor
space of the dwelling; there shall be no display, no outside storage, no change
in the outside appearance of the building or premises, or other visible
evidence of the conduct of the home occupation other than signs normally placed
in the district; no more than two persons in one residence on the premises,
shall be employed in connection with the home occupation; no traffic shall be
generated by the home occupation in greater volumes than would normally be
excepted in a residential neighborhood, and any need for parking generated by
the conduct of the home occupation shall be met off the street and other than
in a required front yard; no equipment or process shall be used in the home
occupation which creates noise, vibration, glare, odors or electrical
interference detectable to the normal senses off the lot; in the case of
electrical interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates
visual or audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the
premises, or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the premises.
   IESNA. The Illuminating Engineering Society of North America, a nonprofit
professional organization of lighting specialists that has established
recommended design standards for various lighting applications.
   ILLUMINANCE. The amount of light falling on a surface-measured in lux or
footcandles.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign face, non-illuminated professional or announcement
sign attached wholly to a building, window or door containing information
relative to emergencies, store hours, credit cards honored, and other similar
accessory information.
   INDIVIDUAL WATER SYSTEM. Any well, spring, stream or other source used to
supply a dingle connection.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWER SYSTEM. Any septic tank, ground absorption system, privy or
other facility serving a single source or connection and approved by the County
Sanitarian.
   INTERNAL REFRACTIVE LENS. A glass or plastic lens installed between the lamp
and the sections of the outer fixture globe or enclosure. REFRACTIVE refers to
the redirection (bending) of the light as it goes through the lens, softening
and spreading the light being distributed from the light source thereby
reducing direct glare.
   JUNK. Old or scrapped copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash,
rubber, debris, waste, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof,
iron, steel and other scrap ferrous or non-ferrous material.
   JUNKYARD. An establishment which is maintained, operated or used for
storing, keeping, buying or selling junk regardless of the length of time that
junk is stored or kept, or for maintenance or operation of an automobile
graveyard, but shall not include garbage dumps on county operated sanitary
landfills.
   KENNELS. An establishment either offering lodging and boarding facilities
for dogs, cats and other domestic pets for a fee or breeding five or more
animals. The storage of any number of animals by a governmental control agency
shall be considered a KENNEL.
   LANDFILL. A site within which is deposited solid waste material, including
trash, construction debris, garbage or industrial waste.
   LIGHT SOURCE. The element of a lighting fixture that is the point of origin
of the lumens emitted by the fixture.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Light emitted by a lighting installation that falls outside
the boundaries of the property on which the installation is sited. This has
adverse effects on residents, vehicle operators and pedestrians, the natural
environment.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by a building or
group of buildings devoted to a common use, together with the customary
accessories and open spaces belonging to the same.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between front and rear lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot for which a plat has been recorded in the Register of
Deeds office of Polk County, or described by metes and bounds, the description
of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH. The distance between side lot lines measured at the front
building line.
   LUMEN. A quantitative unit used to identify the amount of light emitted by a
light source. A lamp is generally rated in lumens.
   LUX. A lux is a SI measurement, where one lux is equal to one lumen per
square meter.
   MAINTAINED FOOTCANDLES. Illuminance of lighting fixtures adjusted for a
maintenance factor accounting for dirt build-up and lamp output depreciation.
The maintenance factor used in the design process to account for this
depreciation cannot be lower than 0.72 for high-pressure sodium and 0.64 for
metal halide and mercury vapor.
   MEDIUM BASE. The size of lamp socket designed to accept a medium or Edison
base lamp.
   MOBILE HOME. A portable manufactured housing unit designed for
transportation on it own chassis and placement on a temporary or semi permanent
foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet
in width. As used in this chapter, MOBILE HOME also means a double wide home
which is two or more portable manufactured housing units designed for
transportation for transportation on their own chassis, which connect on sire
for placement on a temporary or semi-permanent foundation, having a measurement
of over 32 feet in length and over eight feet in width.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any premises where two or more mobile homes are parked for
living and sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart for the purpose
of supplying to the public parking spaces for two or more mobile homes for
living and sleeping purposes, and which include any buildings, structures,
vehicles or enclosures used or intended for use as part of the mobile home
park.
   NATURAL RECREATION AREA. An area that is intrinsically dark at night where
electric lighting should be held to a minimum as designated by the town.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any parcel of land, use of land, building or structure
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter, or any amendment thereto,
that does not conform to the use or dimensional requirements of the district in
which it is located.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building, or part thereof, is used or
intended to be used.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A sign identifying, advertising or directing the public to
a business, merchandise, service, institution, residential area, entertainment
or activity which is located, sold, rented, based, produced, manufactured,
furnished or taking place at a location other than the property on which the
sign is located.
   OUTDOOR PERFORMANCE AREA. An area permanently dedicated to the public
presentation of music, dance, theater, media arts, storytelling, oratory or
other performing arts, whether publicly or privately owned, including but not
limited to amphitheaters and similar open or semi-enclosed structures.
   OUTDOOR SPORTS FIELD. An area designed for recreation (public or privately
owned). These areas include, but are not limited to baseball/softball diamonds,
soccer fields, football fields, golf courses, golf driving ranges, tennis
courts, racetracks, firearm shooting ranges and swimming pools.
   PAINTED WALL SIGN. A sign painted directly on any exterior building wall or
door surface, exclusive of windows or door glass areas.
   PARAPET. A vertical false front on wall extension above a roof line.
   PARKING SPACES. An area for parking a vehicle plus the necessary access
space. Parking space(s) shall always be located outside the dedicated street
right-of-way and shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley.
   PARKS. The term park shall include those areas developed either for passive
or active recreational activities. The development may include, but shall not
be limited to walkways, benches, open fields, multi-use courts, swimming and
wading pools, amphitheaters and the like. The term park shall not include zoos,
travel-trailer parks, amusement parks or vehicle, equestrian or dog racing
facilities.
   PERMITTED SIGN. A sign for which a valid permit has been issued.
   PERIMETER. The contour of the face of the sign.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or other
entity.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. In this chapter, a planned unit development means
a group residential development or a group commercial development where more
than one principal building or use is proposed to be constructed on a single
tract; or any building with a gross floor area of 25,000 square feet or more;
or a residential complex of five or more units with more than one principal
building, shall be deemed a PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). Residential units
within a planned unit development may include single family detached or
attached units, town house developments, garden apartments, patio homes,
condominiums and other type residential units excluding mobile home and mobile
home parks.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A sign erected by a political candidate, group or agent
thereof for the purpose of advertising a candidate or stating a position
regarding an issue upon which the voters of the town shall vote.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign generally constructed to be easily movable without a
permanent attachment to the ground and which may or may not be equipped with
wheels. The signs may be designed for changeable messages.
   PROFESSIONAL CAMPUS. Any group of two or more buildings all contained on one
lot wherein the use of every building in the lot pertains to the provision of
health and medical sciences, education, or governmental administrative services
and the corresponding support thereof. One such campus shall only contain
buildings shoes uses pertain to only one of the specified allowable uses. (As
an example a campus may contain two buildings wherein one is used for pediatric
care and the other is used for asthma treatment; however, a campus that
contains two buildings wherein one is used for classrooms as a satellite campus
for a university or college and the other is used for a governmental department
headquarters shall not be allowed).
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE. The line where the property meets the public
right-of-way at a public street or public waterway, provided that this
definitions shall not include alleys, easements or other similar dedicated
uses.
   PUBLIC SEWER SYSTEM. Any sewer system owned and operated by a local
government in the county, or other sewage treatment facility serving two or
more connections, or any wastewater treatment system having a discharge to
surface waters when approved by the Division of Environmental Management of the
Department of Natural Resources and Community Development, or ground absorption
system serving two or more connections when approved by the County Sanitarian.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM. Water systems serving 15 or more residential
connections or serving more than 25 year-round residents are classified as
public water supplied by State law, and plans and specifications must be
approved by the Department of Human Resources, Division of Health Services.
Water supply systems serving from two to 14 connections may be regulated by the
County Board of Health.
   PYLON (POLE) SIGN. A ground mounted sign attached to one or more posts,
whose base is greater than 20 inches in diameter and is designed to exceed 30
feet in height.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A sign erected by the owner, or his or her agent,
advertising real property upon which the sign is located for rent, for lease or
for sale.
   RETAIL BUSINESS. Establishments selling commodities and/or providing
services directly to the consumer.
   RECREATION USE, NON-PROFIT. An indoor or outdoor recreation facility
operated on a non-profit basis, according to the laws of the state.
   RECREATION USE, PROFIT. An indoor or outdoor recreation facility operated on
a profit basis.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An interest in land to the county which provides for the
perpetual right and privilege of the town, its agents, franchise holders,
successors and assigns to construct, install, improve, reconstruct, remove,
replace, inspect, repair, maintain and use a public street, including related
and customary uses of street rights-of-way such as sidewalks, bike paths,
landscaping, mass transit facilities, traffic control, traffic control devices
and signage, sanitary sewer, storm water drainage, water supply, cable
television, electric power, gas and telephone transmission and related purposes
in, upon, over, below and across the rights-of-way.
   ROOF. The exterior upper covering of the top of a building.
   SEASONAL/HOLIDAY SIGN. A sign used for the celebration of a historic
American holiday, which is erected for a limited period of time.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of stores planned and designed for the site on
which it is built, functioning as a unit, with off-street parking, landscaping
areas and pedestrian malls or plazas provided on the property as an integral
part of the unit.
   SIGN. Any form of publicity or advertising which is designed to be visible
from any public way, directing attention to an individual business, commodity,
service, activity or product by means of words, lettering, numerals, trade
names or trademarks, or other pictorial matter designed to convey that
information.
   SIGN PANEL. The primary surface of a sing that carries the identifying/
advertising message.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN. A sign, which carries a message regarding a special
event or function, which is of general interest to the community.
   SPECIAL USE. A use which is permitted in specified zoning districts only
after review by the Board of Adjustment and found to meet specific conditions
and procedures as set forth in this chapter so as to maintain the safety and
general welfare of the community.
   STREET (ROAD). A right-of-way for vehicular traffic, which affords the
principal means of access to abutting properties.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, including but not limited to
buildings, which requires location on the land or attachment to something
having permanent location on the land.
   SUBDIVISION OR MOBILE HOME PARK ENTRANCE SIGN. An entrance sign which
designates the name of a subdivision, or residential district, or of a mobile
home park and is located at or near the main entrance.
   TEMPORARY LIGHTING. Lighting used for a limited duration, but in no case
longer than 30 days.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign advertising a special event and not intended to be
displayed on a permanent basis.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A moveable structure not designed for long-term human
occupancy or for the protection of goods or chattel, and not forming on
enclosure, and placed on a parcel of land for a period of time to equal one
year or less, unless otherwise noted in this chapter.
   TEMPORARY USE. A use that is established with the intent to discontinue the
use, and that does not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent
structure.
   TOWER. Any ground-mounted, pole, spire, structure or combination thereof,
including supporting lines, cables, wires braces and masts, to which a
telecommunications antenna is attached or affixed.
   TOWER, MONOPOLE. Single pole design, approximately three feet in diameter at
the base narrowing to approximately one and a half feet at the top, generally
ranging from 25 to 150 feet in height.
   TOWN. The Town of Columbus.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicle less than 32 feet in length primary designated as
a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation or vacation uses.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK. A parcel of land designated and equipped to accommodate
travel trailers and to serve as a campground.
   VARIANCE. A use of land or structure, which is prohibited under the literal
interpretation of the terms of the zoning ordinance. Only the Board of
Adjustment can authorize a VARIANCE, which may be granted in certain hardship
situations as defined in the ordinance to enable a property owner to make use
of his or her property.
   VEHICULAR CANOPY. A roofed, open, drive-through structure designed to
provide temporary shelter for vehicles and their occupants while making use of
a business' services.
   WALL PACK. A type of light fixture typically flush-mounted on a vertical
wall surface.
   WIDE-BODY REFRACTIVE GLOBE. A translucent lamp enclosure used with some
outdoor fixtures to provide a decorative look (including but not limited to
acorn- and carriage light-style fixtures). WIDE-BODY refers to a wider than
average size globe (greater than 15.75 inches in diameter). REFRACTIVE refers
to the redirection (bending) of the light as it goes through the lens,
rendering the light fixture more effective. WIDE-BODY REFRACTIVE GLOBES are
intended to soften and spread the light being distributed from the light source
thereby reducing direct glare.
   YARD. A space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by buildings or structures for ground to sky except where
encroachments and accessory buildings are expressly permitted.
   YARD, FRONT. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, extending the full width of the lot, and situated between the street
or property line and the front line of the building, projected to the side lot
lines of the lot.
   YARD, REAR. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building and situated between the rear line of the lot and the rear line of the
building projected to the sidelines of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a principal
building, situated between the building and the side lot line and extending
from the rear line on the front yard to the front line of the rear yard.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. An official or designated person of the Town of
Columbus charged with enforcing and administering the zoning ordinance.
(Ord., Art. IV, § 401, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-05, passed 7-14-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 12-20-2012; Am. Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-26-2015)
§ 154.006 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS
§ 154.020 GENERAL DUTIES AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All questions arising in connection with the enforcement of this
chapter shall be presented first to the Zoning Administrator who shall be
responsible for the day-to-day administration of this chapter.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the authority to rule on matters of
interpretation of this chapter, consider appeals from decisions of the Zoning
Administrator, issue special use permits, and grant variances.
   (C)   Any appeal from a decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be to the
courts as provided by law. It is the further intention of this chapter that the
duties of the Town Council in connection with this chapter shall not include
hearing and passing upon disputed questions that may arise in connection with
the enforcement thereof, but the procedure for determining such questions shall
be as herein set out in this chapter, and that the duties of the Town Council
in connection with this chapter shall be only the duty of considering and
passing upon any proposed amendment or repeal of this chapter as provided by
law after receiving recommendations from the Planning Board.
(Ord., Art. V, § 500, passed - -)
§ 154.021 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Appointment. The Town Council shall appoint a Zoning Administrator. It
shall be the duty of the duly appointed Zoning Administrator to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties. If the Zoning Administrator finds that any of the provisions
of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in writing the
person responsible for the violation, indicating the nature of the violation
and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall order
discontinuance of the illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of
illegal building or structures, or of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to
prevent violation of its provisions. If a ruling of the Zoning Administrator is
questioned, the aggrieved party or parties may appeal the ruling to the Board
of Adjustment.
(Ord., Art. V, § 501, passed - -)
§ 154.022 CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No building or other structures shall be erected, moved, added to or
to structurally altered, nor shall any building permit be issued nor shall any
change in the use of any building or land be made until a certificate of zoning
compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator. No certificate
of zoning compliance shall be issued except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   All applications for zoning compliance certificates shall be
accompanied by plans showing: the actual dimensions of the plot to be built
upon, the locations on the lot of the building or structure proposed to be
erected or altered, the size of the building to be erected, the location of any
existing structures, the number of dwelling units the building is designed to
accommodate, all setback lines, the proposed use of land and structure, and
such other information as may be necessary to provide for the enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord., Art. V, § 502, passed - -)
§ 154.023 REQUIREMENTS PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.
   Prior to the issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall obtain the
following approvals:
   (A)   If connection is to be made to the town water or sewer system, the
applicant shall obtain approval for a tap from the town; and
   (B)   If individual septic tanks and/or wells are to be used, the applicant
shall obtain approval from the County Health Department.
(Ord., Art. V, § 503, passed - -)
§ 154.024 BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Upon receiving a certificate of zoning compliance a building permit shall be
obtained from the County Building Inspections Office for the construction or
alteration of any building, structure or mobile home, pursuant to the
procedures of the County Building Inspections Office.
(Ord., Art. V, § 504, passed - -)
§ 154.025 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIRED.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy issued by the Zoning Administrator is
required in advance of:
      (1)   Occupancy or use of a building hereafter erected, altered or moved;
and
      (2)   Change of use of any building or land.
   (B)   In conjunction with the final building inspection the Zoning
Administrator shall certify that all requirements of this chapter have been
met.
   (C)   The applicant shall call for the certification coincident with the
application for a certificate of zoning compliance and shall be issued within
ten days after the erection or structural alterations of the building, or part,
shall have been completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. A
certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless the proposed use of a
building or land conforms to the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   If the certificate of occupancy is denied, the Zoning Administrator
shall state in writing the reasons for refusal and the applicant shall be
notified of the refusal.
   (E)   A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the Zoning Administrator and copies shall be furnished on request to any person
having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land involved.
(Ord., Art. V, § 505, passed - -)
§ 154.026 CONSTRUCTION PROGRESS.
   If no substantial construction progress has been made within six months of
the date of the issuance of the zoning compliance certificate, the building
permit becomes invalid.
(Ord., Art. V, § 506, passed - -)
§ 154.027 COMPLIANCE.
   In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired, converted or maintained, or any building or land is used in violation
of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator or any other appropriate county
authority, or any person who would be damaged by the violation, in addition to
other remedies, may institute an action for injunction, or mandamus, or other
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the violation.
(Ord., Art. V, § 507, passed - -)
§ 154.028 APPEAL FROM THE ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   All questions arising in connection with the enforcement of the ordinance
shall be presented first to the Zoning Administrator, and the questions shall
be presented to the Board of Adjustment only on appeal form a ruling of the
Zoning Administrator. Any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
the Zoning Administrator may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to
the procedure found in §
154.046 below.
(Ord., Art. V, § 508, passed - -)
BOARD OF PLANNING AND ADJUSTMENT
§ 154.040 ESTABLISHMENT OF BOARD OF PLANNING AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   A Board of Planning and Adjustment is hereby established to fulfill
the duties of the town Planning Board and Board of Adjustments, and all members
shall have equal rights, privileges and duties. The Board shall consist of five
members. The five members shall be citizens of the town and shall be appointed
by the Town Council.
   (B)   Initial terms of office shall be as follows: one member appointed for
three years; two members appointed for two years; and two members appointed for
one year. Upon completion of these initial terms of office, all additional
appointments on the Board shall be for three-year terms.
   (C)   Any permanent vacancy in the membership shall be filled for the
unexpired term of the vacancy. All members shall serve without pay, but may be
reimbursed for any unusual expenses incurred while representing the Board.
(Ord., Art. VI, § 600, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-25-2010; Am. Ord.
2010-04, passed 6-17-2010; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-2014)
§ 154.041 SELECTION OF ALTERNATE MEMBERS.
   The Town Council shall also appoint two alternate members to serve on the
Board of Planning and Adjustment in the absence, for any cause, of the Board’s
regular members. Alternate members shall be appointed for three-year terms. The
alternate members, while attending any regular or special meeting of the Board
and serving in the absence of any regular member, shall have and exercise all
the powers and duties of the regular member so absent. Alternate members should
attend all proceedings of the Board in order to gain experience.
(Ord., Art. VI, § 601, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-25-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 4-17-2014)
§ 154.042 RULES OF CONDUCT FOR MEMBERS.
   (A)   Members of the Board may be removed for cause, including violation of
the rules stated below.
   (B)   Faithful attendance at meetings of the Board and conscientious
performance of the duties of members of the Board shall be considered a
prerequisite of continuing membership on the Board. The unexcused absence of
three consecutive meetings shall be sufficient grounds for removal from the
Board. The removal is subject to approval of a simple majority of a quorum as
defined in §
154.044(C) below.
   (C)   No Board member shall vote on recommendations regarding any zoning map
or text amendment where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. If an objection is raised to a member’s
participation and that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining
members shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (D)   A member of the Board or any other body exercising quasi-judicial
functions pursuant to this subchapter shall not participate in or vote on any
quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected persons’
constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible conflicts
include, but are not limited to, a member having a fixed opinion that is not
susceptible to change prior to hearing the matter, undisclosed ex parte
communications, a close familial, business, or other associational relationship
with an affected person, or a financial interest in the outcome of the matter.
If an objection is raised to a member’s participation and that member does not
recuse himself or herself, the remaining members shall by majority vote rule on
the objection.
   (E)   No Board member shall vote on any specific matter unless he or she
shall have attended all hearings on that matter.
   (F)   No Board member shall discuss a quasi-judicial case with any parties
thereto or other Board members prior to the public hearing on that case;
provided however, that members may receive and/or seek information on that case
from the Zoning Administrator or any other member of the Board, its secretary
or clerk prior to the hearing.
(Ord., Art. VI, § 602, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-25-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 4-17-2014)
§ 154.043 GENERAL PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD OF PLANNING AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall annually elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson
from among its members. The Chairperson shall in turn appoint a Secretary, who
may be a municipal officer, an employee of the town, or a member of the Board
of Planning and Adjustment. The Town Clerk or the Town Clerk’s appointee shall
serve as Clerk to the Board. The Board may, at its discretion, require that the
party appealing from a decision of the Zoning Administrator employ and pay for
a court reporter to take and to provide to the Board a verbatim transcript of
the hearing of the appeal. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating that fact, and also keep records of it examinations and other
official actions.
   (B)   The Chair of the Board, or any member acting as Chair, and the Clerk
to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any matter
coming before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a proceeding
before the Board of Adjustment, willfully swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment, through the Chair, or in the Chair's absence
anyone acting as Chair, may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of
evidence. To request issuance of a subpoena, persons with standing under
pertinent state law may make a written request to the Chair explaining why it
is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be compelled. The Chair shall
issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be relevant, reasonable in
nature and scope, and not oppressive. The Chair shall rule on any motion to
quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas made by the Chair may
be appealed to the full Board of Adjustment. If a person fails or refuses to
obey a subpoena issued pursuant to this division, the Board of Adjustment or
the party seeking the subpoena may apply to the General Court of Justice for an
order requiring that its subpoena be obeyed, and the court shall have
jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper parties.
(Ord., Art. VI, § 603, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-25-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 4-17-2014)
§ 154.044 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Board meetings. The Board shall hold regular monthly meetings at a
specified time on the first Tuesday of each month, and at a specified place.
Special meetings may be called at any time atm the request of the Chairperson
or by the request of three or more Board members. At least 48 hours notice of
the time and place of meetings shall be given, by the Chairperson, to each
member of the Board. All Board meetings are to be held in accordance with G.S.
Ch. 143, Art. 33B, commonly referred to as the Open Meeting Law.
   (B)   Cancellation of meetings. Whenever there is no business for the Board
or whenever so many regular members notify the Chairperson of the inability to
attend that a quorum will not be available, the Chairperson may dispense with a
meeting by giving notice to all members.
   (C)   Quorum. A quorum shall consist of three members of the Board, but the
Board shall not pass upon any questions relating to an application for a
variance when there are fewer than four members present.
   (D)   Voting. All regular members may vote on any issue unless they have
disqualified themselves for one or more of the reasons listed in §
154.042 above. The vote of a majority of the members present and voting shall
decide issues before the Planning Board. Voting by the Board of Adjustment
shall be as set forth in §
154.046(E)(1).
(Ord., Art. VI, § 604, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-25-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 4-17-2014; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-2025)
§ 154.045 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE BOARD OF PLANNING AND ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Planning Board. When fulfilling its duties as the Planning Board, the
Board shall:
      (1)   Make studies of the area within its jurisdiction and surrounding
areas;
      (2)   Determine objectives to be sought in the development of the study
area;
      (3)   Prepare and adopt plans for achieving these objectives;
      (4)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, administrative
procedures, and other means for carrying out plans in a coordinated and
efficient manner;
      (5)   Advise the Town Council concerning the use and amendment of means
for carrying out plans;
      (6)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Council may direct;
      (7)   Perform any other related duties that the Council may direct;
      (8)   Participate in the development review process as directed by the
zoning ordinance, subdivision ordinance, or any other adopted ordinance and/or
regulation of the town;
      (9)   Make recommendations to the Town Council regarding the adoption of
any proposed zoning and/or subdivision ordinance or amendment. Furthermore, the
Board may initiate, from time to time, proposals for amendment of the zoning
ordinance, zoning map or subdivision ordinance, based upon its studies and
plans;
      (10)   The Board may conduct public hearings to gather information
necessary for the drafting, establishment, and maintenance of plans; and
      (11)   Submit in writing to the Town Manager in May of each year, a
report of its activities, and an analysis of the expenditures to date for the
current fiscal year; and submit to the Town Manager for budget consideration
its requested budget of funds needed for operation during the ensuing fiscal
year.
   (B)   Board of Adjustment. When fulfilling its duties as the Board of
Adjustment, the Board shall have the following powers and duties.
      (1)   Interpretation. To interpret zoning maps and pass upon disputed
questions of lot lines or district boundary lines and any other questions of
interpretation that may arise in the administration of this chapter.
      (2)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirements, decision or determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the
enforcement of this chapter as provided in §
154.046 below. The Board shall also hear and decide all matters upon which it
is required to pass under any statute or ordinance that regulates land use or
development.
      (3)   Special uses. To grant in particular cases and subject to
appropriate conditions and safeguards, permits for special uses, as authorized
in §§
154.082 and
154.083 below, and set forth as special uses under the various use districts.
      (4)   Variances. To hear and decide variances as provided in §
154.046 below.
      The Board of Adjustment shall follow quasi-judicial procedures when
deciding appeals, requests for variances and special use permits.
(Ord., Art. VI, § 605, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-25-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 4-17-2014)
§ 154.046 PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Appeals. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from
decisions of administrative officials charged with enforcement of the zoning
ordinance, and may hear appeals arising out of any other ordinance that
regulates land use or development, pursuant to all of the following:
      (1)   Any person who has standing under pertinent state law or the town
may appeal a decision to the Board of Adjustment. An appeal is taken by filing
a notice of appeal with the Town Clerk. The notice of appeal shall state the
grounds for the appeal.
      (2)   The official who made the decision shall give written notice to the
owner of the property that is the subject of the decision and to the party who
sought the decision, if different from the owner. The written notice shall be
delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail.
      (3)   The owner or other party shall have 30 days from receipt of the
written notice within which to file an appeal. Any other person with standing
to appeal shall have 30 days from receipt from any source of actual or
constructive notice of the decision within which to file an appeal.
      (4)   It shall be conclusively presumed that all persons with standing to
appeal have constructive notice of the decision from the date a sign,
containing the words “Zoning Decision” or “Subdivision Decision”, in letters at
least six inches high, and identifying the means to contact an official for
information about the decision, is prominently posted on the property that is
the subject of the decision, provided the sign remains on the property for at
least ten days. Posting of signs is not the only form of constructive notice.
Any such posting shall be the responsibility of the landowner or applicant.
Verification of the posting shall be provided to the official who made the
decision.
      (5)   The official who made the decision shall transmit to the Board all
documents and exhibits constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from is taken. The official shall also provide a copy of the record to the
appellant, and to the owner of the property that is the subject of the appeal
if the appellant is not the owner.
      (6)   An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order stays
enforcement of the action appealed from, unless the official who made the
decision certifies to the Board of Adjustment after notice of appeal has been
filed that, because of the facts stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property, or because the violation is transitory in
nature, a stay would seriously interfere with enforcement of the ordinance. In
that case, enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining
order, which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not
stayed, the appellant may file with the official a request for an expedited
hearing of the appeal, and the Board of Adjustment shall meet to hear the
appeal within 15 days after the request is filed. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a permit or otherwise affirming that a
proposed use of property is consistent with the ordinance shall not stay the
further review of an application for permits or permissions to use such
property; in these situations, the appellant may request and the Board may
grant a stay of a final decision of permit applications or building permits
affected by the issue being appealed.
      (7)   Subject to the provisions of division (A)(6), the Board of
Adjustment shall hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable time.
      (8)   The official who made the decision shall be present at the hearing
as a witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the hearing to matters
stated in the notice of appeal. If any party or the town would be unduly
prejudiced by the presentation of matters not presented in the notice of
appeal, the Board shall continue the hearing. The Board of Adjustment may
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from,
and shall make any order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to
be made. The Board shall have all the powers of the official who made the
decision.
      (9)   When hearing an appeal pursuant to G.S. § 160A-400.9(e) or any
other appeal in the nature of certiorari, the hearing shall be based on the
record below and the scope of review shall be as provided in pertinent state
law.
      (10)   The parties to an appeal that has been made under this division
may agree to mediation or other forms of alternative dispute resolution. A
majority of the members shall be required to decide to determine an appeal made
in the nature of certiorari in accordance with division (E)(1) below.
   (B)   Special use permits.
      (1)   A special use permit from the Board of Adjustment is required for
all special uses. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide special use
permits in accordance with standards and procedures specified in this section
and in §§
154.082 and
154.083, and may issue special use permits in the classes of cases or
situations and in accordance with the principles, conditions, safeguards, and
procedures specified herein, and may impose reasonable and appropriate
conditions and safeguards upon these permits. Where appropriate, the conditions
may include requirements that street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to
the public and that recreational space be provided.
      (2)   All special use permits that are granted shall run with the
property or structure for which the special use permit is being sought, and not
with the owner of the property or structure.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship requirement. When unnecessary hardships would
result from carrying out the strict letter of the zoning ordinance, the Board
of Adjustment shall vary any of the provisions of the ordinance upon a showing
of all of the following:
         (a)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the ordinance. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in the absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property;
         (b)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions common
to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for granting a
variance;
         (c)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant
or the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship; and
         (d)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose,
and intent of the ordinance, such that public safety is secured, and
substantial justice is achieved.
      No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance. Appropriate
conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that the conditions are
reasonably related to the variance. Any other ordinance that regulates land use
or development may provide for variances consistent with the provisions of this
division.
      (2)   Application. When a variance is requested, the applicant shall
submit a completed application for such permit.
      (3)   Quasi-judicial hearings on applications for variances. Once the
Zoning Administrator is in receipt of a complete application and five copies of
a complete site plan, he or she will schedule the application for a public
hearing before the Board. The Zoning Administrator shall mail the notice of
hearing in accordance with division (D)(2) below. The Board of Adjustment shall
conduct a quasi-judicial hearing on the application, and shall allow any
interested party to appear, either in person or by agent or attorney.
      (4)   Board action on applications for variances. After the quasi-
judicial hearing, and on consideration of the record, the Board shall take
action on the application, either (1) denying it, (2) approving it, or (3)
approving it subject to one or more conditions. In granting a variance, the
Board of Adjustment shall make findings that the requirements of this section
have been met. Violation of the conditions shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter and punishable under §
154.999 below. A concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be necessary
to grant a variance in accordance with division (G) below.
      (5)   Effect of approval. All variances granted shall run with the
property or structure for which the variance is being sought. and not with the
owner of the property or structure.
   (D)   Hearings.
      (1)   Time. After receipt of an application or a notice of appeal, the
Board Chairperson shall schedule the time for a hearing, which shall be at a
regular or special meeting within 31 days from the filing of the application or
notice of appeal.
      (2)   Notice of hearing. Notice of hearings conducted pursuant to this
section shall be mailed to the person or entity whose appeal, application, or
request is the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the
subject of the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners
of all parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the
hearing; and to any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided by the
zoning ordinance. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the town may rely
on the county tax listing to determine owners of property entitled to mailed
notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at least ten days, but not
more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. Within that same time
period, the town shall also prominently post a notice of the hearing on the
site that is the subject of the hearing, or on an adjacent street or highway
right-of-way.
      (3)   Conduct of hearing. Any party may appear in person, by agent or by
attorney at the hearing. The order of business for hearing shall be as follows:
         (a)    The Chairperson, or such person as he or she shall direct,
shall give a preliminary statement of the case;
         (b)   The applicant shall present the argument in support of his or
her application;
         (c)   Persons opposed to granting the application shall present
arguments against the application;
         (d)   Both sides will be permitted to present rebuttals to opposing
testimony; and
         (e)   The Chairperson will summarize the evidence that has been
presented, giving the parties opportunity to make objections or corrections.
Witnesses may be called and factual evidence may be submitted, but the Board
shall not be limited to consideration of only such evidence as would be
admissible in a court of law. The Board may view the premises before arriving
at a decision. All witnesses before the Board shall be placed under oath and
the opposing party may cross-examine them.
      (4)   Rehearings.
         (a)   An application for a rehearing may be made in the same manner as
provided for an original hearing. Evidence in support of the application shall
initially be limited to that which is necessary to enable the Board to
determine whether there has been a substantial change in the facts, evidence or
conditions in the case.
         (b)   The application for a rehearing shall be denied by the Board if
from the record it finds that there has been no substantial change in facts,
evidence or conditions. If the Board finds that there has been a change, it
shall thereupon treat the application for a rehearing in the same manner as any
other application.
   (E)   Decisions and judicial review.
      (1)   Voting. The concurring vote of four-fifths of the Board shall be
necessary to grant a variance. A majority of the members shall be required to
decide any other quasi-judicial matter or to determine an appeal made in the
nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this division, vacant positions on
the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-judicial
matter shall not be considered members of the Board for calculation of the
requisite majority, if there are no qualified alternates available to take the
place of such members.
      (2)   Quasi-judicial decisions. The Board shall determine contested facts
and make its decision within a reasonable time. Every quasi-judicial decision
shall be based upon competent, material, and substantial evidence in the
record. Each quasi-judicial decision shall be reduced to writing and reflect
the Board’s determination of contested facts and their application to the
applicable standards. The decision may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or
modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from. The
record shall state in detail what, if any, conditions and safeguards are
imposed by the Board in connection with the granting of a variance. The written
decision shall be signed by the Chair or other duly authorized member of the
Board. A quasi-judicial decision is effective upon filing the written decision
with the Clerk to the Board of Adjustment. The decision of the Board shall be
delivered by personal delivery, electronic mail, or by first-class mail to the
applicant, property owner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy, prior to the date the decision becomes effective. The
person required to provide notice shall certify that proper notice has been
made.
      (3)   Expiration of permits. Unless otherwise specified, any order or
decision of the Board in granting a variance shall expire if a building permit
or certificate of occupancy for the use is not obtained by the applicant within
six months from the date of the decision.
      (4)   Public record of decisions. The decisions of the Board, as filed in
its minutes, shall be a public record, available for inspection at all
reasonable times. In addition, and at the applicant’s expense, approved
variances and special use permits shall be filed with the County Register of
Deeds by the Clerk to the Board of Adjustment within one month from the date of
approval.
      (5)   Judicial review. Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to
review by the Superior Court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
pursuant to pertinent state law. A petition for review shall be filed with the
Clerk of Superior Court by the later of 30 days after the decision is
effective, or after a written copy thereof is given in accordance with division
(D) above. When first-class mail is used to deliver notice, three days shall be
added to the time to file the petition.
(Ord., Art. VI, § 606, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-25-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 4-17-2014) Penalty, see §
154.999
ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICT AND MAP
§ 154.060 USE DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the town is hereby divided into the
following use districts:
   (A)   Residential Estate (RE);
   (B)   Low Density Residential District (R-1);
   (C)   Community Residential-Medium Density Residential (R-2);
   (D)   Central Business District (CBD);
   (E)   I-26 Corridor Overlay Area (I-26 COA);
   (F)   Highway Commercial District (HC);
   (G)   Industrial District (IND);
   (H)   Public Service District (PS);
   (I)   Mixed Use District (MU); and
   (J)   Traditional Neighborhood District (TND).
(Ord., Art. VII, § 700, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-05, passed 7-14-2010; Am.
Ord. passed 3-16-2017)
§ 154.061 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the
official zoning map of the town.
(Ord., Art. VII, § 701, passed - -)
§ 154.062 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   A zoning map entitled the "Official Zoning Map of the Town of
Columbus" clearly setting forth all approved use districts and their respective
boundaries is hereby made a part of this chapter and shall be maintained in the
office of the Zoning Administrator of the town.
   (B)   This map shall be available for inspection by interested persons
during normal business hours of the Zoning Administrator. It shall be the duty
of the Zoning Administrator of the town to maintain the map and post any
changes thereto as they may be made.
(Ord., Art. VII, § 702, passed - -)
§ 154.063 RULES GOVERNING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainly exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
aforesaid districts as shown on the zoning map, the following shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, alleys, streams, rivers or other bodies of water, should be
construed to follow the lines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated, as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated, as approximately following town limit lines
shall be construed as following the town lines.
   (D)   Where district boundaries are so indicated they are approximately
parallel to the centerlines of streets, highways, railroads or right-of-way of
same, the district boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and
at such distance therefore as indicated on the zoning map. If no distance is
given, the dimension shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the
zoning map.
   (E)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot of single ownership, the
district requirements for the least restricted portion of the lot shall be
deemed to apply to the whole thereof, provided that the extensions shall not
include any part of the lot more than 35 feet beyond the district boundary
lines.
   (F)   Where physical features existing on the ground are at variance with
those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered
by divisions (A) through (E) above, the Board of Adjustment shall interpret the
district boundaries.
(Ord., Art. VII, § 703, passed - -)
§ 154.064 STATEMENT OF DISTRICT INTENTS.
   (A)   Residential Estate (RE). The Residential Estate (RE) district as
herein established is intended to be the most restrictive of the residential
districts. The intent is to provide for an environment of low density one-
family detached dwelling units along with other residentially related
facilities which serve the residents in this district. These areas will often
be dependent on private, individual septic tanks and wells; therefore,
requiring larger lot sizes to sustain individual water supplies and sewage
disposal facilities. These areas may have soil and topographic constraints that
preclude intense urban development.
   (B)   Low Density Residential District (R-1). The Low Density Residential
District is primarily intended to provide locations for low-density residential
development in outlying rural areas that are not likely to have public water
and sewer services available and may have soil and topographic constraints that
preclude intense urban development. These areas often will be dependent upon
private, individual septic tanks and wells; therefore, requiring larger lot
sizes to sustain individual water supplies and sewage disposal facilities. This
district also provides for recreational, community service and institutional
uses that will complement the residential development. This district will be
applied within those areas designated on the land use plan as Low Density
Residential areas.
   (C)   Community Residential-Medium Density Residential District (R-2). The
Community Residential-Medium Density Residential District is primarily intended
to provide locations for residential uses and supporting recreational and
community service uses in area where generally both Town public water and sewer
services are available. These are the more urban areas of the community and
will be primarily within the town limits and in close proximity to public and
private services and the town's central business district. This district is
intended to protect existing single-family homes and subdivisions within the
town. This district will be applied within those areas designated on the land
use plan as Medium Density Residential areas.
   (D)   Central Business District (CBD). The Central Business District is
intended to be the primary retail and service center, and focal point of the
community. This district provides for the concentration of commercial uses,
professional services, financial services, governmental functions, and related
services. The CBD area currently has access to both public water and sewer
services, and dimensional requirements for this district are intended to
encourage concentrated commercial development and to promote convenient
pedestrian shopping in pleasant surroundings. This district will be applied to
the existing commercial center and to adjacent properties that with commercial
development will complement and enhance the CBD as the retail and service
center of the community. This district will be applied within the commercial
areas as designated on the land use plan.
   (E)   I-26 Corridor Overlay Area (I-26 COA). The I-26 Corridor Overlay
boundaries are from the concrete right-of-way monument set at the east
intersection of Highway 26 and Highway 108, at the corner of Spartan Petroleum
Company and running east 500 feet on Highway 108 to a line parallel to the
right-of-way of 1-26, and also at the concrete right-of-way monument set at the
west intersection of Highway 26 and Highway 108, at the corner of the McFarland
tract and running west 500 feet on Highway 108 to a line parallel to the right
of way of 1-26. This overlay area has the same requirements as in the Highway
Commercial District, but also has additional requirements for tall signs and
electronic gaming operations.
   (F)   Highway Commercial District (HC). The Highway Commercial District is
intended to provide suitable locations for clustered groupings of highway
commercial development in convenient locations along N.C. 108, to serve local
residences and persons traveling by automobile. Urban sprawl, congestions, and
strip commercial development will be discouraged by promoting good design,
clustered developments, and by guiding commercial development primarily to
areas that have water and sewer services and suitable soil and topographic
conditions. These areas should provide sufficient space for ample off-street
parking and well designed entrances and exits to avoid traffic congestion and
safety hazards. Highway commercial areas are intended for commercial
enterprises and services that require greater land area and lot dimensions than
establishments locating in the Central Business District. This district will be
applied within the commercial areas as designated on the land use plan.
   (G)   Industrial District (IND). The Industrial District is intended to
provide sites for manufacturing and industrial uses, storage and warehousing,
wholesale trade, and other major employment centers. These locations should
currently have both public water and sewer services available or be expected to
have these services in the future, and have suitable soil and topographic
conditions to sustain the development. This district includes existing
manufacturing areas, and sites suited for future or further industrial
development, and area designated on the land use plan as Industrial Centers.
Only those manufacturing uses will be allowed which have meet all local, state,
and federal environmental standards, and do not involve obnoxious noise,
vibrations, smoke, gas, fumes, odor, dust, fire hazards or other objectionable
conditions which would be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare
of the community.
   (H)   Public Service District (PS). The Public Service District is intended
to be an area containing a concentration of public service activities such as
recreation areas, educational facilities, hospitals, emergency services and the
like. This district is intended to preserve existing public service centers and
will apply to those areas designated on the land use plan as Public Service
Centers.
   (I)   Mixed-Use District (MU). The Mixed-Use District is established to
provide opportunities for compatible and sustainable re-development where
underutilized commercial properties already exist. The existing auto-oriented
street, lot and building designs can create uncomfortable pedestrian
environments; however, with careful site planning these areas will allow a
greater number of residents to walk or bike to businesses and services with an
interconnected network of streets and sidewalks. Dominant uses in this district
are residential, retail and office. The Mixed-Use District is expected to serve
Columbus residents as well as persons who travel from the surrounding
communities. The development pattern in this district acknowledges the role of
the automobile, with parking and access provided to ensure safety for the
motoring public. Development standards in the Mixed-Use District ensure the
creation of a pleasant auto-oriented environment while enabling a compatible
transition to uses in adjacent districts. This District is available for
rezoning only with the consent of the property owner(s).
   (J)   Traditional Neighborhood Development District (TND). The Traditional
Neighborhood Development District provides for the development of new
neighborhoods and the revitalization or extension of existing neighborhoods.
These neighborhoods are structured upon a fine network of interconnecting
pedestrian oriented streets and other public spaces. Traditional Neighborhood
Developments (TND's) provide a mixture of housing types and prices, prominently
sited civic or community building(s), stores/offices/workplaces, and churches
to provide a balanced mix of activities. A Traditional Neighborhood Development
(TND) has a recognizable center and clearly defined edges; optimum size is a
quarter mile from center to edge. A TND is urban in form, is typically an
extension of the existing developed area of the Town, and has an overall
residential density of up to 16 dwelling units per acre. TND districts should
have a significant portion of land dedicated to open spaces. This District is
available for rezoning only with the consent of the property owner(s).
(Ord., Art. VII, § 704, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-05, passed 7-14-2010; Am.
Ord. passed 3-16-2017)
§ 154.065 PERMITTED USE TABLE.
   (A)   P = Permitted.
   (B)   S - Allowed as a special use.
   (C)   Blank = not allowed.
   (D)   Use not listed = not allowed.
 RE R-1 LD R-2 MD CBD HC IND PS MU TND
                                        RE R-1 LD R-2 MD CBD HC  IND PS MU TND
Single family residential (detached)     P  P      P      P              P  P
Single family residential (attached)                                     S  P
Duplex residential                          S      S                     P  P
Multi-family residential (only one                 S      S   S          P  P
building)
Planned unit developments-residential              S      S   S          S  P
Planned unit developments-commercial                      S   S          S  P
Mobile homes                                S      S
Mobile home parks                           S      S
Nursing homes, assisted living                                P          S  P
facilities, and group care facilities
Family care homes                        P  P      P                     P  P
Home occupations                         P  P      P                     P  P
Accessory buildings                      P  P      P      P   P   P   P  P  P
Accessory apartments                        P      P      P              P  P
Accessory dwellings                                S      S              S  P
Schools, public and private (of similar                       P       P     P
curriculum as public)
Business and special schools (art,                        P   P          P  P
craft, dance and the like)
Day nursery and private kindergarten     P  P      P          P       P  P  P
Hotels, motels                                                P          P  P
Rooming houses                                                P
Churches and cemeteries                  P  P      P          P       P  P  P
Public or private non-profit
recreational facilities (parks,          P  P      P          P   P   P  P  P
playgrounds and the like)
Private recreational facilities -profit
(bowling alleys, skating rinks and the                        P
like)
Government offices; U.S., state, local                    S   P       P  P  P
Governmental facilities (storage yards,                   S*          S
maintenance sheds, jails and the like)
Public utility offices                                        P       P  P  P
Public utility stations and substations  S  S      S          P   P   P  P  P
Cemetery                                 P  P      P          P       P  P  P
Libraries                                   P      P      P   P       P  P  P
Radio and tv towers, water and sewer
plants, water storage tanks, pumping     S  S      S      P   P   P   P  P  S
stations
Banks and other financial institutions                    P   P          P  P
Animal hospitals and veterinarian                         S   S          P  S
clinics
Theaters                                                  P   P          P  P
Restaurants                                               P   P          P  P
Hospitals, health clinics and doctors’                  P   P       P  P  P
offices
Professional campus                                       S   P       S  P  P
Physical fitness center business                          P   P          P  P
Public associations, clubs or lodges                      P   P       P  P  P
(non-profit)
Country clubs                            S  S
Greenhouses/plant businesses                                  P          P  P
Funeral homes                                                 P          P
Kennels                                                       S
Motor vehicle maintenance and repair                          P
Motor vehicle sales and rental                                S          P
Motor vehicle services station                            P   P
Farm supply/hardware                                      P   P          P
Laundry and dry cleaning services                         P   P          P  P
Photography shops and studio                              P   P          P  P
Professional and business offices and                     P   P   P      P  P
services
Postal services                                           P   P          P  P
Printing and lithography                                  P   P   P      P  P
Repair services                                           P   P
Retail trade, commercial services                         P   P          P  P
Sales and rental of goods, merchandise                                   P  P
and equipment   
Manufacturing and processing operations                           P
Operations
Storage and warehousing                                       P   P      S  S
Wholesale sales                                               P   P
Assembly halls, gym                                S      P   P          P  P
Farm machinery assembly, sales and                        P   P
repairs
Travel trailer parks (campgrounds)          S
Bus and truck terminals                                   P   P
Electronic gaming operations                                  P**
Wireless telecommunication towers under                           P      P  P
50 feet in height1
Wireless telecommunication towers 50                              S      S  S
feet or greater in height1
1 The measurement of height shall include any building or structure to which
the tower or antenna is attached.
* Modification of existing facilities is allowed by special use permit. No new
facilities of this type are allowed in this district
** Electronic gaming operations are restricted to the I-26 Corridor Overlay
Area.
 
(Ord., Art. VIII, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-05, passed 7-14-2010; Am. Ord.
passed 12-20-2012; Am. Ord. passed 3-16-2017)
§ 154.066 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Regulations pertaining to Mixed Use (MU) Districts.
      (1)   Intent. The Mixed-Use District (MU) is established to provide
opportunities for compatible and sustainable re-development where underutilized
commercial properties already exist. The existing auto-oriented street, lot,
and building designs can create uncomfortable pedestrian environments; however,
with careful site planning these areas will allow a greater number of residents
to walk or bike to businesses and services with an interconnected network of
streets and sidewalks. Dominant uses in this district are residential, retail
and office. The Mixed-Use District is expected to serve Columbus residents as
well as persons who travel from surrounding communities. The development
pattern in this district acknowledges the role of the automobile, with parking
and access provided to ensure safety for the motoring public. Development
standards in the Mixed-Use District ensure the creation of a pleasant auto-
oriented environment while enabling a compatible transition to uses in adjacent
districts. This District is available for rezoning only with the consent of the
property owner(s).
      (2)   Residential density limits.
         (a)   Single Family Detached:      7 unit/acre;
         (b)   Single Family Attached:      17 units/acre; and
         (c)   Multifamily:            28 units/acre.
      (3)   Dimensional standards. 
 
Minimum lot size Minimum lot Build-to-line Minimum rear yard Minimum side yard
                 width                     setback           setback
6,000 sq. ft.    60 feet     16 feet       12 feet           0
 
(Unless a greater standard is otherwise required)
   (B)   Regulations pertaining to Traditional Neighborhood Districts (TND).
      (1)   Intent. The Traditional Neighborhood Development District (TND)
provides for the development of new neighborhoods and the revitalization or
extension of existing neighborhoods. These neighborhoods are structured upon a
fine network of interconnecting pedestrian oriented streets and other public
spaces. Traditional Neighborhood Developments (TND's) provide a mixture of
housing types and prices, prominently sited civic or community building(s),
stores/offices/workplaces, and churches to provide a balanced mix of
activities. A Traditional Neighborhood Development (TND) has a recognizable
center and clearly defined edges; optimum size is a quarter mile from center to
edge. A TND is urban in form, is typically an extension of the existing
developed area of the Town, and has an overall residential density of up to 16
dwelling units per acre. TND districts should have a significant portion of
land dedicated to open spaces. This District is available for rezoning only
with the consent of the property owner(s).
      (2)   Residential density limits.
         (a)   Single-family detached: seven units/acre;
         (b)   Single-family attached: 12 units/acre; and
         (c)   Multifamily development standards.
            1.   The multi-family development shall not exceed a total of
seventy-two (72) dwelling units.
            2.   The maximum permitted density for the multi-family development
shall be 14 1/2 units per acre.
            3.   The permitted building and lot types for the multi-family
development in a single-family area shall be the detached house and the
attached house building and lot types.
            4.   All parking for the multi-family development shall be located
behind the building. The parking area shall be screened from adjacent
properties and from the street with a screening device.
            5.   The buildings in the multi-family development shall be
architecturally compatible with single family structures on the street on which
the multi-family building is proposed. Elements that shall be incorporated into
the design of the multi-family building to ensure architectural compatibility
are:
               a.   The multi-family building shall be constructed of building
materials similar to those used on single family structures on the street.
               b.   The roof pitch of the multi-family building shall be the
same as that of the single-family structures on the street.
               c.   The fenestration of the multi-family building by location
and size of windows and doors shall be similar to that of the single-family
homes on the street.
               d.   Color renderings of the proposed building must be submitted
with the application to ensure architectural compatibility.
            6.   No multi-family building shall be located closer than 48 feet
to an existing multi-family building or development. The distance shall be
measured along centerline of streets from the edge of the property proposed for
development to the closest edge of the property on which the existing multi-
family building or development is located.
      (3)   TND general requirements.
         (a)   Along existing streets, new buildings shall respect the general
spacing of structures, building mass and scale, and street frontage
relationships of existing buildings.
            1.   New buildings which adhere to the scale, massing, volume,
spacing, and setback of existing buildings along fronting streets exhibit
demonstrable compatibility.
            2.   New buildings which exceed the scale and volume of existing
buildings may demonstrate compatibility by varying the massing of buildings to
reduce perceived scale and volume.
         (b)   On new streets, allowable building and lot types will establish
the development pattern.
         (c)   A master plan in compliance with Traditional Neighborhood
Development standards shall be provided with the zoning permit submittal for a
general district TND. The master plan shall include a topographic survey and
shall show the location and hierarchy of streets and public open spaces,
location of residential, commercial, and civic building lots, street sections
and/or plans, a master sign program, an outline of any additional regulatory
intentions, phasing, and any other information, including building elevations,
which may be required to evaluate the interior pedestrian environment and
conditions at project edges.
         (d)   Minimum Development Size: eight acres.
         (e)   Maximum Development Size: none.
      (4)   TND design requirements.
         (a)   Neighborhood form.
            1.   The area of the TND shall be divided into blocks, streets,
lots, and open space.
            2.   Similar land uses shall generally front across each street.
Dissimilar categories shall generally abut at rear lot lines. Corner lots which
front on streets of dissimilar use shall generally observe the setback
established on each fronting street.
         (b)   Streets, alleys and blocks.
            1.   Public streets shall provide access to all tracts and lots.
            2.   Streets and alleys shall, wherever practicable, terminate at
other streets within the neighborhood and connect to existing and projected
streets outside the development.
            3.   Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 250 feet in length, must be
accessed from a street providing internal or external connectivity, shall be
permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround, and are listed only where
topography makes a street connection impracticable
            4.   Vehicular turnarounds of various configurations are acceptable
so long as emergency access is adequately provided.
            5.   Pedestrian connections should be provided as extensions of
terminating streets where not precluded by topography or other physical
constraints.
            6.   The average perimeter of all blocks within the TND should not
exceed 1,350 feet. No block face should have a length greater than 500 feet
without a dedicated alley or pathway providing through access.
            7.   A continuous network of rear alleys shall provide vehicular
access to lots 49 feet or less in width.
            8.   Utilities may run along alleys provided that a permanent
public access and utility easement is recorded for the full length of alley
being used for utilities or public services such as garbage collection.
            9.   TND streets shall be organized according to a hierarchy based
on function, size, capacity, and design speed; streets and rights-of-way are
therefore expected to differ in dimension. The proposed hierarchy of streets
shall be indicated on the submitted site plan. Each street type in a TND shall
be separately detailed. An array of elements that are combined to meet the
purposes of TND neighborhood streets: building placement line, optional utility
allocation, sidewalk, planting strip, curb and gutter, optional parallel
parking, and travel lane(s). Alternative methods of assembling the required
street elements will be considered to allow neighborhood street designs that
are most appropriate to setting and use.
            10.   To prevent the buildup of vehicular speed, disperse traffic
flow, and create a sense of visual enclosure, long uninterrupted segments of
straight streets should be avoided. Methods to achieve this interruption
include:
               (i)   A street can be interrupted by intersections designed to
calm the speed and disperse the flow of traffic and terminate vistas with a
significant feature (building, park, natural feature);
               (ii)   A street can be terminated with a public monument,
specifically designed building facade, or a gateway to the ensuing space;
               (iii)   Perceived street length can be reduced by a noticeable
street curve where the outside edge of the curve is bounded by a building or
other vertical elements that hug the curve and deflect the view; and
               (iv)   Other traffic calming configurations are acceptable so
long as emergency access is adequately provided.
         (c)   Buildings and lots.
            1.   All lots shall share a frontage line with a street or square;
lots fronting a square shall be provided rear alley access.
            2.   Consistent build-to lines shall be established along all
streets and public space frontages; build-to lines determine the width and
ratio of enclosure for each public street or space. A minimum percentage build-
out at the build-to line shall be established on the plan along all streets and
public square frontages.
            3.   Large-scale, single use facilities (conference spaces,
theaters, athletic facilities, etc.) shall generally occur behind or above
smaller scale uses of pedestrian orientation.
         (d)   Open space. The provision and design of open space shall comply
with the requirements set forth herein.
         (e)   Parking, landscaping and buffers shall comply with the
requirements set forth herein.
                 Residential                Minimum Yard Setback
                 Density                    Requirements (Feet)
         Minimum Minimum           Minimum  Front Yard
         Lot     Land     Maximum  Lot      (whichever is                Max.
District Area    Area (1) Number   Width at greater)                     Height
         (Square Per      (4)      Building               Sideyards Rear (Feet)
         Feet)   Dwelling Dwelling From     From          (2)       Yard
         (1)     Unit     Units    Right-   Centerline
                 (Square  Per Acre of-Way
                 Feet)
                    Residential Density          Minimum Yard Setback
            Minimum                     Minimum  Requirements (Feet)
            Lot     Minimum    Maximum  Lot      Front Yard
            Area    Land Area  Number   Width at (whichever is                Max.
District    (Square (1) Per    (4)      Building greater)      Sideyards Rear Height
            Feet)   Dwelling   Dwelling From                   (2)       Yard (Feet)
            (1)     Unit       Units    Right-   From
                    (Square    Per Acre of-Way   Centerline
                    Feet)
Residential 87,120  87,120     0.5      125      45         90 20        30   45
Estate (RE)
            20,000  For first
            (no     unit:
            water   20,000 (no 4        85       30         60 10        20   45
            or      water or
            sewer)  sewer)
            15,000  15,000
            (water  (water
Low Density only)   only)
Residential 10,000  10,000
(R-1)       (water  (water and
            and     sewer)
            sewer)
                    Plus:
                    11,000
                    each
                    additional
                    unit
            20,000  For First
            (no     unit:
            water   20,000 (no 4        85       20         50 10        20   45
            or      water or
            sewer)  sewer)
            15,000  15,000
Medium      (water  (water
Density     only)   only)
Community   10,000  10,000
Residential (water  (water and
(R-2)       and     sewer)
            sewer)
                    Plus:
                    11,000
                    each
                    additional
                    unit
                    For first
            None    unit:      8        20       5 (3)      -  -         -    36
Central             5,000 sq.
Business            ft.
District            Plus:
(CBD)               5,500 each
                    additional
                    unit
            20,000  For first
            (no     unit:
            water   20,000 (no 8        50       20         50 10        10   50
            or      water or
            sewer)  sewer)
            15,000  15,000
Highway     (water  (water
Commercial  only)   only)
(HC)        10,000  10,000
            (water  (water and
            and     sewer)
            sewer)
                    Plus:
                    5,500 each
                    additional
                    unit
Industrial  Same as
District    HC      N/A        N/A      80       30         60 10        20   50
(IND)
Public
Service     Same as N/A        N/A      80       30         60 10        20   50
District    HC
(PD)
(1)   The minimum lot area for lots not served by public water and/or sewer shall be
subject to approval by the Polk County Health Department to ensure proper operation
of septic tanks and wells. In no case, however, shall minimum lot area be less than
specified in this table.
(2)   On all corner lots, a 15-foot side yard setback is required except in the CBD,
where a five-foot side yard setback is required.
(3)   In the CBD, where adjacent buildings have front yard setbacks less than five
feet, the minimum front setback may be equivalent to the adjacent properties.
(4)   Regulations pertaining to mobile home parks are contained in
Chapter 150
(5)   Regulations pertaining to Mixed Use (MU) Districts and Traditional
Neighborhood Districts (TND) are contained in §§
154.066(A) and
154.066(B), respectively.
 
(Ord., Art. IX, passed - -)
§ 154.067 BUILDING HEIGHT OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Reason for regulation. It is recognized that two major characteristics
of the town greatly contribute to the atmosphere, cultural heritage and appeal
of the whole community. Specifically, the scenic mountain views bounding the
town on the north and north west and the historic county courthouse located in
the middle of town both offer a sense of place and community to the town's
residents and add to the attractiveness of the area. It is further recognized
that the height of buildings, if left unregulated or inadequately regulated,
can detract from these two features. Therefore, building heights shall be
regulated based on the location of the subject building in relation to mountain
view-sheds and to the historic county courthouse.
   (B)   Establishment of Building Height Overlay Districts. The boundaries of
the Building Height Overlay Districts shall be depicted on a map named the
"Town of Columbus Building Height Overlay District Map" and shall be made part
of this chapter upon adoption of this section.
   (C)   Districts. For the purposes of determining maximum building heights,
the town shall be divided into the following Building Height Overlay Districts:
      (1)   General;
      (2)   Courthouse; and
      (3)   Mountain View-Shed.
   (D)   General Building Height District. In this district no building shall
be taller than 36 feet. However, if the average elevation (above mean sea
level) of the ridgelines of existing adjacent buildings situated on lots having
a common boundary with the subject parcel upon which the proposed building is
to be situated (adjacent lots that are vacant not being included in this
calculation) is less than the elevation (above mean sea level) determined by
measuring 36 feet vertically from the average grade of the proposed building
envelope on the subject parcel, then the proposed building shall be no taller
than that average. In the event that the average elevation (above mean sea
level) of the existing buildings' ridgelines on the surrounding adjacent
properties is such that the subject parcel is rendered unbuildable (meaning a
single story building with an appropriate roof is not feasible), then the
proposed building shall have a height not exceeding 29 feet. The determination
that a subject parcel is rendered unbuildable under this division (D) shall be
at the discretion of the approving administrator, board, or council.
   (E)   Courthouse Building Height District. In this district no building's
ridgeline shall have an elevation higher than the elevation defined by the
plane of the soffit of the eave of the roof of the historic county courthouse;
however, in no case shall a buildings height be taller than 29 feet.
   (F)   Mountain View-Shed District. Buildings on areas of high elevation are
highly visible from surrounding public spaces. As such, buildings in this
district shall not be more than 29 feet tall.
   (G)   Height. The height of a building shall be measured from the grade of
the average grade of the property to the highest ridge of the roof of the
structure.
(Ord., Art. IX, § 900, passed - -; Ord. passed - -)
§ 154.068 FLOOR AREA.
   (A)   Potential. Large scale commercial development has the potential to
pose many challenges to a relatively small community such as the town. The
development can overwhelm local police services, undermine a current
diversified commercial market, strain the character of the local community,
cause excessive vehicular congestion, and can be difficult to handle once left
vacant. As such, the town finds it necessary to limit the allowable floor area
of commercial development in order to ensure that the development is carried
out in a manner that is appropriate and consistent with the character of the
town.
   (B)   Commercial development. The building footprint of any structure and
any accessory structure in the aggregate to be used for any commercial
enterprise shall not be larger than 10,000 square feet in size. The building's
footprint shall be construed to mean the perimeter line created by the edge of
the roof of any structure and building on a lot in the aggregate. For the
purposes of this section, the term commercial development shall include any
development intended to be used or potentially used by for-profit enterprises,
including manufacturing and industrial developments, except that those uses
allowed within the town's Public Service District shall not be considered
commercial. It is recognized that in certain circumstances it may be
appropriate to allow for a larger building footprint for commercial
developments. In order for a commercial structure proposed to have a footprint
larger than 10,000 square feet to be constructed, a special use permit shall be
obtained prior to the commencement of the development. See §§
154.082 and
154.083 below for details regarding the issuance of a special use permit for
large scale commercial developments.
   (C)   Residential development. The building footprint of all newly
constructed residential developments shall not be larger than 35% of the lot on
which the residential development is proposed to be erected.
   (D)   Public service development. Development to be used for any land use
allowed in the town's Public Service (PS) zoning district shall have no limit
on the size of the building footprint.
(Ord., Art. IX, § 901, passed - -)
CONDITIONAL AND SPECIAL USES
§ 154.080 CONDITIONAL USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   For each general use district established in §§
154.060 through
154.064 above, there is also established a corresponding conditional use
district as follows:
      (1)   CU-R-1 Conditional Use R-1 District;
      (2)   CU-R-2 Conditional Use R-2 District;
      (3)   CU-CBD Conditional Use CBD District;
      (4)   CU-HC Conditional Use HC District;
      (5)   CU-IND Conditional Use IND District;
      (6)   CU-PS Conditional Use PS District;
      (7)   CU-MU Conditional Use MU District; and
      (8)   CU-TND Conditional Use TND District.
   (B)   It is recognized that certain types of zoning districts would be
inappropriate at certain locations in the absence of special conditions. Where
the applicant for rezoning desires property to be rezoned to such a district in
those situations, the Conditional Use District (CUD) is a means by which the
special conditions can be imposed in the furtherance of the purposes of this
chapter. The Conditional Use District classification will be considered for
rezoning only upon request of a property owner. If for any reason any condition
imposed pursuant to these regulations is found to be illegal or invalid or if
the applicant should fail to accept any condition, it is the intent of this
chapter that the authorization of the conditional use permit shall be null and
void and of no effect, and that proceedings shall be instituted to rezone the
property to its previous zoning classification.
   (C)   Within a CUD, only those uses authorized as either permitted or
conditional uses in the zoning district with which the CUD corresponds shall be
permitted, and all other requirements of the corresponding district shall be
met as minimum standards. In addition, with a CUD no use shall be permitted
except pursuant to a conditional use permit authorized by the Town Council,
which shall specify the use or uses authorized. The permit may further specify
the location on the property of the proposed use or uses, the number of
dwelling units, the location and extent of supporting facilities such as
parking lots, driveway and access streets, the location and extent of buffer
areas, and other special purpose areas, the timing of development, the location
and extent of right-of-way and other areas to be dedicated for public use, and
other such matters as the applicant may propose as conditions upon the request,
but not to include conditions not generally a part of land development
controls. In granting a conditional use permit, the Town Council may impose
additional reasonable and appropriate safeguards upon the permit as it may deem
necessary in order that the purpose and intent of this chapter are served,
public welfare secured and substantial justice done.
   (D)   In approving a Conditional Use District Rezoning, the Town Council
shall make the following (in addition to the findings for conditional use
permits in §
154.081(C) below) affirmative findings:
      (1)   That the use(s) requested is among those listed as an eligible use
in the Conditional Use District in which the subject property is located or is
to be located; and
      (2)   That the location and character of the Conditional Use District if
developed according to the site specific plan will be reasonable and consistent
with the surrounding area and with adopted plans of the town.
(Ord., Art. X, § 1000, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 3-16-2017)
§ 154.081 SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR CONDITIONAL USE DISTRICTS AND CONDITIONAL USE
PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. Conditional use permits shall only be
granted in conjunction with a Conditional Use District rezoning, and shall be
processed and considered in a quasi-judicial manner by the Town Council.
Proposals for a rezoning to any Conditional Use District shall always be
accompanied by a request for a conditional use permit and shall be heard and
considered simultaneously.
   (B)   Approval process.
      (1)   The Town Council shall consider the application in accordance with
the findings-of-fact in division (C) below. The proposals and requests shall be
processed and considered in the same procedure as conventional rezoning
proposals, except as otherwise set forth herein, and the voting shall be the
same as that required for zoning matters.
      (2)   If the Town Council should determine that the property involved in
the proposal should be rezoned and the conditional use permit issued, it shall
adopt an ordinance rezoning the property and authorizing the issuance of a
conditional use permit. Otherwise the proposal shall be denied.
      (3)   An application shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and
shall be accompanied by a site specific plan with the following requirements:
         (a)   Existing site conditions, including contours, water courses,
identified flood hazard area, and unique natural or human-made features.
         (b)   Boundary lines of the proposed development, proposed lot lines
and plot designs;
         (c)   Proposed location and use of all existing and proposed
structures;
         (d)   Location and size of all areas to be conveyed, dedicated or
reserved as common open space, parks, recreation areas, school sites and
similar public and semi-public uses;
         (e)   The existing and proposed street system, including location and
number of off-street parking spaces, service areas, loading areas and major
points of access to public right-of-way. Notations of proposed ownership of the
street system (public or private). Documentation from the Town Fire Department
of the adequacy of the development's facilities for emergency medical and fire
services;
         (f)   Approximate location of proposed utility systems, including
documentation approving the proposed water and sewer systems from the
appropriate local and state agencies. Documentation of an approved
Sedimentation and Erosion Control Plan shall also be submitted where required;
         (g)   Location and/or notation of existing and proposed easements and
right-of-way;
         (h)   The proposed treatment of the perimeter of the development
including materials and/or techniques such as screens, fences and walls;
         (i)   Information on adjacent land areas, including land use, zoning
classifications, public facilities and any unique natural features;
         (j)   Where applicable, the following written documentation shall be
submitted:
            1.    A legal description of the total site proposed for
development, including a statement of present and proposed ownership;
            2.   The zoning district or districts in which the project is
located;
            3.   A development schedule indicating approximate beginning and
completion dates of the development, including any proposed states;
            4.   A statement of the applicant's intentions with regard to the
future selling and/or leasing of all or portions of the development;
            5.   Quantitative data for the following: proposed total number and
type of residential dwelling units; parcel size; gross residential densities
and total amount of open space; and
            6.   Plan for maintenance of common areas, recreation areas, open
spaces, street and utilities.
         (k)   Any additional information required by the Town Council in order
to evaluate the impact of the proposed development. The Council may waive a
particular requirement if in their opinion the inclusion is not essential to a
proper decision on the application.
   (C)   Conditions, evidence and findings of fact.
      (1)   In approving an application for a conditional use permit, the Town
Council may attach fair and reasonable conditions to the approval. The
petitioner will have a reasonable opportunity to consider and respond to any
additional requirements prior to approval or denial by the Town Council. In no
instance shall any of these conditions be less restrictive than any
requirements which would pertain to that particular development found elsewhere
in a similar zoning district.
      (2)   The applicant has the burden of producing competent, material and
substantial evidence to establish the facts and conditions. If any person
submits evidence allegedly contrary to any of the facts or conditions, the
burden of proof for overcoming the evidence shall rest with the applicant.
      (3)   The Town Council shall issue a conditional use permit if it has
evaluated an application and determined that the proposed use satisfies the
following standards:
         (a)   That the use requested is among those listed as an eligible
conditional use in the district in which the subject property is located or is
to be located. The authorization of a conditional use permit for any use which
is permitted only as a special use in the zoning district which corresponds to
the Conditional Use District shall preclude any requirement for obtaining a
special use permit for any such use from the Board of Adjustment;
         (b)   The use will not materially endanger the public health or safety
if located where proposed and developed according to plan;
         (c)   The use meets all required conditions and specifications;
         (d)   The use will not substantially injure the value of adjoining or
abutting property unless the use is a public necessity; and
         (e)   The location and character of the use, if developed according to
the plan as submitted and approved, will be in harmony with the area in which
it is to be located and will be in general conformity with the adopted land use
plans and other plans for physical development of the town area as adopted by
the Town Council.
   (D)   Decisions.
      (1)   Time. A decision by the Town Council shall be made within 30 days
from the time of hearing.
      (2)   Form.
         (a)   Written notice of the decision in a case shall be given by
certified or registered mail to the applicant by the secretary as soon as
practicable after the case is decided. Also, written notice shall be given to
owners of the subject property, if not the applicant, and to other persons who
have made written request for the notice.
         (b)   The final decision of the Town Council shall be shown in the
record of the case as entered in the minutes of the Council and signed by the
secretary and the Chairperson upon approval of the minutes by the Council.
         (c)   The record shall show the reasons for the determination, with a
summary of the evidence introduced and findings of fact made by the Council.
The record shall state in detail what, if any, conditions and safeguards are
imposed by the Council in connection with the granting of a conditional use
permit.
      (3)   Voting. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the
Town Council shall be necessary to granting a conditional use permit.
      (4)   Public record of decisions. The decisions of the Town Council, as
filed in its minutes, shall be a public record, available for inspection at all
reasonable times. In addition, and at the applicant’s expense, approved
conditional use permits shall be filed with the County Register of Deeds by the
Town Clerk within one month from the date of approval.
   (E)   Effect of approval and expiration of approval.
      (1)   Any conditional use permit shall be perpetually binding upon the
property included in the permit unless subsequently changed or amended by the
Town Council, as provided for in division (F) below. If an application for a
conditional use permit is approved by the Council, the owner of the property
shall have the ability to develop the use in accordance with the stipulations
contained in the conditional use permit or develop any other use listed as a
"permitted use" for the general zoning district in which it is located. Any
conditional use permits so authorized shall be perpetually binding on the
property included in the permit unless subsequently changed or amended by the
Town Council.
      (2)   Unless the Town Council issues a conditional use permit which
either is specifically exempt from any time constraints or has some other
specified time period for implementation, the applicant must secure a valid
building permit within a one year period from date of issuance of the
conditional use permit. In addition, if the project for which a conditional use
permit was issued is not complete and a valid building permit is not in place
at the end of the 12-month period, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of the finding, and within 60 days of the notification, the Zoning
Administrator shall make a recommendation concerning the recision of the
conditional use permit to the Town Council. The Town Council, after having
conducted a public hearing to consider the recision, may then rescind the
conditional use permit, or extend the life of the conditional use permit for a
specified period of time.
   (F)   Alterations to site and amendments to conditional use permit.
      (1)   "Minor changes" are changes in the detail of the approved site
which:
         (a)   Will not alter the basic relationship of the proposed
development to the adjacent property;
         (b)   Will not increase the gross floor area of any non-residential
use by the lesser of 10% or 10,000 square feet; and
         (c)   Will not decrease the off-street parking ratio or reduce the
yards provided at the periphery of the site by greater than five feet.
      (2)   Minor changes may be made with the approval of the Zoning
Administrator on a one-time basis only. Further changes to the development may
only be made by the Town Council by amending the conditional use permit. Any
request to materially change the conditional use permit once it has been issued
shall be reviewed in entirety through the Board approval process.
   (G)   Re-application following denial.
      (1)   If a request for conditional use permit is denied by the Town
Council, a similar application for the same property or any portion thereof
shall not be filed until the expiration of a 12 month period from the date of
the most recent denial by the Council. This waiting period shall not be
applicable where the application for a conditional use permit is substantially
different from the original application.
      (2)   The term SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT as herein applied shall mean:
         (a)   The proposed principal use is different from the use contained
in the original application; or
         (b)   The gross floor area of the proposed development has been
reduced by 50% or more from that contained in the original application.
(Ord., Art. X, § 1001, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-2014)
§ 154.082 SPECIAL USE PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Purpose and applicability. This chapter provides for a number of uses
to be located by right in each general zoning district subject to the use
meeting certain area, height, yard and off-street parking and loading
requirements. In addition to these uses, the ordinance allows some uses on a
special basis subject to the issuance of a special use permit by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment. The reason for making the uses "special" is to ensure that
they are compatible with surrounding development and in keeping with the
purposes of the general zoning district in which they are located. Those uses,
shown as "special" in the permitted use table in §
154.065, shall be subject to the requirements and review process in this
section.
   (B)   Approval process. The hearing for a special use permit shall be
processed and considered in a quasi-judicial manner by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment. The Board may, in its review, suggest reasonable conditions for the
location, nature and extent of the proposed use and its relationship to
surrounding properties, parking areas, driveways, pedestrian and vehicular
circulation systems, and screening and landscaping, and may address timing of
development and any other appropriate conditions. Those conditions may include
dedication of any rights-of-way or easements for streets, water, sewer or other
public utilities necessary to serve the proposed development. An application
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall be accompanied by a site
specific plan meeting the requirements as set forth in §
154.081(B) above. Additional information may be required by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment in order to evaluate the impact of the proposed development. The
Board may waive a particular requirement if, in its opinion, the inclusion is
not essential to a proper decision on the application.
   (C)   Conditions, evidence and findings of fact.
      (1)   In approving an application for a special use permit, the Zoning
Board of Adjustment may attach fair and reasonable conditions to the approval.
The petitioner will have a reasonable opportunity to consider and respond to
any additional requirements prior to approval or denial by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
      (2)   The Board shall issue a special use permit if it has evaluated an
application and determined that the proposed use satisfies the following
standards:
         (a)   The use requested is among those listed as an eligible special
use in the district in which the subject property is located;
         (b)   The special use will not materially endanger the public health
or safety if located where proposed and developed according to the plan as
proposed;
         (c)   The special use meets all required conditions and
specifications;
         (d)   The special use will not substantially injure the value of
adjoining or abutting property, or that the use is a public necessity; and
         (e)   The location and character of the special use if developed
according to the plan as proposed will be in harmony with the area in which it
is to be located and in general conformity with the plan of development of the
town.
   (D)   Decisions and judicial review. The provisions of §
154.046(E)(1) Voting, (2) Quasi-judicial decisions, (4) Public record of
decisions, and (5) Judicial review, shall apply to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment’s consideration of special use permits.
   (E)   Effect of approval and expiration of approval.
      (1)   Any special use permit shall be perpetually binding upon the
property included in the permit unless subsequently changed or amended by the
Zoning Board of Adjustment, as provided for in division (F) below. If an
application for a special use permit is approved by the Board, the owner of the
property shall have the ability to develop the use in accordance with the
stipulations contained in the special use permit or develop any other use
listed as a "permitted use" for the general zoning district in which it is
located.
      (2)   Unless the Zoning Board of Adjustment issues a special use permit
which either is specifically exempt from any time constraints or has some other
specified time period for implementation, the applicant must secure a valid
building permit within a one-year period from date of issuance of the special
use permit.
         (a)   In addition, if the project for which a special use permit was
issued is not complete and a valid building permit is not in place at the end
of the 12-month period, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of
the finding, and within 60 days of the notification, the Zoning Administrator
shall make a recommendation concerning the recision of the special use permit
to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
         (b)   The Board, after having conducted a public hearing to consider
the recision, may then rescind the special use permit, or extend the life of
the special use permit for a specified period of time.
   (F)   Alterations to site and amendments to special use permit.
      (1)   "Minor changes" are changes in the detail of the approved site
which:
         (a)   Will not alter the basic relationship of the proposed
development to the adjacent property;
         (b)   Will not increase the gross floor area of any non-residential
use by the lesser of 10% or 10,000 square feet; and
         (c)   Will not decrease the off-street parking ratio or reduce the
yards provided at the periphery of the site by greater than five feet.
      (2)   Minor changes may be made with the approval of the Zoning
Administrator on a one-time basis only. Further changes to the development may
only be made by the Zoning Board of Adjustment by amending the special use
permit. Any request to materially change the special use permit once it has
been issued shall be reviewed in entirety through the Board approval process.
   (G)   Re-application following denial.
      (1)   If a request for special use permit is denied by the Zoning Board
of Adjustment, a similar application for the same property or any portion
thereof shall not be filed until the expiration of a 12- month period from the
date of the most recent denial by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   This waiting period shall not be applicable where the application
for a special use permit is substantially different form the original
application.
      (3)   The term SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT as herein applied shall mean:
         (a)   The proposed principal use is different from the use contained
in the original application; or
         (b)   The gross floor area of the proposed development has been
reduced by 50% or more from that contained in the original application.
(Ord., Art. X, § 1002, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 4-17-2014)
§ 154.083 SPECIAL USE STANDARDS.
   The following standards are applied to specific special uses. Before issuing
a special use permit, the Board of Adjustment shall find that all standards for
specific uses listed in these sections as well as all standards and
requirements listed in §
154.082 above have been met.
   (A)   Planned unit development.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division (A) is to encourage and
provide for flexibility and innovation in the design and location of structures
and land development, to provide for mixtures of housing types and land use, to
provide for the most efficient use of land resources, and to provide and
opportunity to develop land areas in a manner different from the standard
arrangement of one principal building on one lot. Residential densities are
calculated on a project basis, thus allowing the clustering of buildings in
order to create useful open spaces and preserve natural site features. It is
further intended that a planned unit development will be in harmony with the
character of the district in which it is located.
      (2)   Planned unit development defined. In this chapter a planned unit
development means a group residential development or a group commercial
development where more than one principal building or use is proposed to be
constructed on a single tract; or any building with a gross floor area of
10,000 square feet or more; or a residential complex of five or more units with
more than one principal building, shall be deemed a planned unit development
(PUD). Residential units within a planned unit development may include single-
family detached or attached units, townhouse developments, garden apartments,
patio homes, condominiums and other type residential units excluding mobile
homes and mobile home parks.
      (3)   Land development standards. The following land development
standards shall apply for all planned unit developments. There shall be two
types of PUD, a residential PUD and a commercial PUD. These planned unit
developments may be located only in certain specified districts as special
uses, subject to a finding by the Board of Adjustment that the following
conditions be met:
         (a)   Ownership control. The land in a planned unit development shall
be under single ownership or management by the applicant before final approval
and/or construction, or proper assurances (legal title or execution of a
binding sales agreement) shall be provided that the development can be
successfully completed by the applicant.
         (b)   Land uses permitted and location of PUDs. Those land uses
normally permitted in the district within which a PUD is located shall be
permitted in the PUD, including multi-family residential units in residential
planned unit developments, and a variety of commercial uses in commercial
planned unit developments. Residential PUDs shall be permitted in the central
business district and the highway business district; and commercial PUDs shall
be permitted in the central business district and highway business district.
All PUDs must be compatible with and not violate the intent of the zoning
district.
         (c)   Density requirements. There are no density requirements for non-
residential uses as long as the proposed project does not violate the intent of
the district in which it is located. The proposed residential density of a
residentially planned unit development (dwelling units per acre as shown in §§
154.066 through
154.068 above) shall conform to that permitted in the district in which the
development is located. If the planned unit development lies in more than one
district, the number of allowable dwelling units must be separately calculated
for each portion of the planned unit development that is in a separate
district, and must then be combined to determine the number of dwelling units
allowable in the entire planned unit development.
         (d)   Frontage requirements. Planned unit developments shall have
access to a highway or road suitable for the scale and density of development
being proposed.
         (e)   Minimum requirements.
            1.   The normal minimum lot size, setbacks and frontage
requirements are hereby waived for the planned unit development, provided that
the spirit and intent of this section are complied with in the total
development plan, as determined by the Board of Adjustment. The Board of
Adjustment shall exercise ultimate discretion as to whether the total
development plan does comply with the spirit and intent of this section.
            2.   No building or structure shall exceed the height limitations
of the district in which it is located.
            3.   The minimum distance between buildings shall be 20 feet or as
otherwise specified by the Board of Adjustment to ensure adequate air, light,
privacy and space for emergency vehicles.
         (f)   Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and
acoustical privacy for all dwelling units. Fences, insulation, walks, barriers
and landscaping shall be used, as appropriate, for the protection and aesthetic
enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants, screening of
objectionable views or uses, and reduction of noise. Multi-level buildings
shall be located within a planned unit development in such a way as to
dissipate any adverse impact on adjoining low-rise buildings and shall not
invade the privacy of the occupants of the low-rise buildings.
         (g)   Perimeter requirements.
            1.   Structures located on the perimeter of the development must be
setback from property lines and right-of-way of abutting streets in accordance
with the provisions of the zoning ordinance controlling the district within
which the property is situated; and
            2.   Structures other than single-family detached units, located on
the perimeter of the development may require screening in a manner, which is
approved by the Board of Adjustment.
         (h)   Plans and accompanying documentation. Plans and accompanying
documentation to ensure that the water and sewer systems proposed for the
planned unit development have been approved by the appropriate local and state
agencies and submitted as part of the application.
         (i)   Preliminary plans. Preliminary plans shall include parking
provisions for all proposed uses within the planned unit developments in
accordance with §
154.106 below.
         (j)   Pedestrian and bicycle path circulation system. Any pedestrian
and bicycle path circulation system and its related walkways shall be designed
to minimize conflicts between vehicle and pedestrian traffic.
         (k)   Layout of parking areas and the like. Layout of parking areas,
service areas, entrances, exits, yards, courts and landscaping, and control of
signs, lighting, noise and other potentially adverse influences shall be such
as to protect the character of the district and desirable character in any
adjoining district.
         (l)   Conveyance and maintenance. Conveyance and maintenance of open
space, recreational areas and communally owned facilities shall be in
accordance with the Unit Ownership Act (G.S. Chapter 47A) and/or any other
appropriate mechanisms acceptable to the Board of Adjustment.
   (B)   Mobile home parks.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division (B) is to eliminate and
prevent health and safety hazards and to promote the economical and orderly
development and utilization of land by providing for the planning and operation
of mobile home parks, and by providing for the standards and regulations
necessary to accomplish these purposes.
      (2)   Definitions.
         (a)   Mobile home. A portable manufactured housing unit designated for
transportation on its own chassis and placement on a temporary or semi
permanent foundation having a measurement of over 32 feet in length and over
eight feet in width. As used in this subchapter, MOBILE also means a double-
wide home which is two or more portable manufacturing housing units designed
for transportation on their own chassis, which connect on site for placement on
a temporary or semi permanent foundation, having a measurement of over 32 feet
in length and over eight feet in width.
         (b)   Mobile home park. Any premises where two or more mobile homes
are parked for living and sleeping purposes, or any premises used or set apart
for the purpose of supplying to the public parking space for include any
buildings, structures, vehicles or enclosures used or intended for use as part
of the mobile home parks.
      (3)   Land development standards.
         (a)   There shall be no more than six mobile homes per acre, and the
area of the park site shall no be less than two acres.
         (b)   No mobile home or other structure within a mobile home park
shall be closer to each other than 20 feet, except that storage or other
auxiliary structures for the exclusive use of the mobile home may be closer to
that mobile home than 20 feet.
         (c)   There shall be at least two off-street parking spaces for each
mobile home. These spaces shall be provided either on the same site as the
mobile home served or in a designated parking area serving several or all
mobile homes within the mobile home park.
         (d)   No mobile home or other structures shall be located closer than
20 feet to the exterior boundary of the mobile home park or highway right-of-
way.
         (e)   A densely planted buffer strip, consisting of evergreen trees or
shrubs shall be located along all sides of the mobile home park, but along any
street shall be setback beyond the street right-of-way. The buffer strip shall
not be less than four feet in width and shall be composed of trees or shrubs of
a type, which at maturity shall be not less than six feet in height. This
planting requirement may be modified by the Board of Adjustment where adequate
buffering exists in the form of vegetation and/or terrain.
         (f)   The mobile home park owner shall be responsible for making
arrangements for the collection of all garbage and trash.
         (g)   All mobile homes shall be underpinned.
         (h)   All streets within a mobile home park shall be at least 20 feet
in width. All streets shall have unobstructed access to a public street or
highway and shall be hard surfaces, or of properly compacted gravel of at least
four inches in depth, well marked and lighted by the mobile home owner.
         (i)   All mobile home parks shall be served by a public water system.
The water distribution system within the park shall meet all requirements of
Article D-9 of Appended D, entitled Plumbing Installation Standards for Mobile
Homes and Travel Trailers and Parks of the State Plumbing Code.
         (j)   All mobile home parks served by a public sewage collection and
treatment system shall meet the requirements of Article D-9 of Appended D of
the State Plumbing Code. Any mobile home park not served by a public sewage
system must be approved by the County Health Department.
         (k)   Anchors or tie-downs, such as cast-in-place concrete "dead men",
eyelets imbedded in concrete screw augers, or arrowhead anchors, shall be
placed at each corner of the mobile home stand and at intervals and of such
strength as required to conform to the requirements of the State Building Code.
         (l)   The mobile home stand shall be improved to provide adequate
support for the placement and tie-down of the mobile. The stand shall not
heave, shift or settle unevenly under the weight of the mobile home due to
frost action, inadequate drainage, vibration, wind or other force activity on
the structure.
   (C)   Country clubs.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall be sufficient to meet the requirements
found in §
154.106 below.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment may require buffering consisting of
evergreen trees or shrubs located along the side and rear lot lines, but long
any street shall be setback beyond the street right-of-way. The buffer strip
shall not be less than four feet in width and shall be composed of trees or
shrubs of a type which at maturity shall be not less than six feel in height.
This planting requirement may be modified by the Board of Adjustment where
adequate buffering exists in the form of vegetation and/or terrain.
      (3)   The proposed hours of operation shall not be detrimental to the
surrounding property due to noise, flashing lights, traffic and the like.
      (4)   All development shall be compatible with surrounding residential
uses, therefore, no signs with flashing lights shall be allowed. All non-
flashing illuminated signs shall be so placed so as not to cast light on
adjoining residential uses.
   (D)   Government offices.
      (1)   All existing government office buildings located within the town's
Central Business District as of the date of March 20, 2008 shall be considered
compliant with this section.
      (2)   A special use permit shall be obtained for any additions, repairs
or any construction that results in the expansion of the building footprint of
any existing government office building within the Central Business District.
If a building houses multiple uses including government office uses, then the
expansion of a government office use within the building shall constitute an
expansion of the footprint of the government office building.
      (3)   In addition to the prescribed findings of fact for the issuance of
a special use permit, the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall determine that a
proposed government office development in the Central Business District
fulfills the following requirements:
         (a)   The proposed location for the use or building shall not be on a
parcel or lot, which directly abuts the public right-of-way of North Carolina
Highway 108, also known as Mills Street;
         (b)   No alternative locations exist for the building or use within
areas previously developed for government buildings and/or uses; and
         (c)   If a new structure is proposed, then the structure's
architectural design shall be consistent with the surrounding area and shall
conform to any existing design guidelines adopted by the town.
   (E)   Government facilities.
      (1)   Any new governmental facility buildings and/or uses, and any
additions, repairs or any construction to existing facilities that result in
the expansion of the building footprint shall be issued a special use permit
prior to commencement of development and/or construction, and must adhere to
the following standards:
         (a)   A governmental facility shall not be located on a lot or parcel
whose perimeter is within 200 feet of three or more parcels or lots that
contain residential uses or is within 200 feet of three or more parcels or lots
that contain uses classified according to the permitted use table under §
154.065 above as retail trade, commercial services, sales and rental of goods,
merchandise and equipment or uses classified as restaurants;
         (b)   No alternative location exists for the proposed new governmental
facility within areas previously developed for government buildings and/or
facilities; and
         (c)   Detention centers, jails and related correctional facilities;
storage yards and related outdoor storage facilities; maintenance sheds and
related indoor storage facilities; and emergency response facilities are all
listed and regulated as different governmental facility uses below. If a
proposed development or change in use is not explicitly listed, then the zoning
administrator shall determine which of the previously mentioned use categories
the proposal most closely resembles and the proposal shall be treated as
falling within the use category.
      (2)   Detention centers, jails, and related correctional facilities shall
adhere to the following restrictions as well as those listed above:
         (a)   Any such facilities existing in the Central Business District as
of March 20, 2008, may be continued as nonconforming uses, provided however,
that if any proposed construction will result in the expansion of the footprint
of the existing facilities, then a special use permit must be obtained and the
permit shall require that the entire facility be brought into compliance with
the remaining provisions of this division (E)(2). New facilities of this type
shall not be constructed in the Central Business District;
         (b)   No outdoor speaker system shall be utilized by the facilities;
         (c)   Vehicles entering and exiting the premises of such a facility
shall not use sirens and/or emergency lights unless responding to an emergency;
         (d)   No chain link, barbed wire, razor wire or any other similar
fencing material shall be used in locations that are visible from other
adjoining properties and/or the public right-of-way unless specifically
permitted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment;
         (e)   Lighting, including security lights, shall not produce direct
glare or other light trespass onto adjoining properties;
         (f)   Exercise yards and other outdoor activity areas shall be located
internally and shall not be visible from adjoining properties or the public
right-of-way;
         (g)   The loading and unloading of residents of such a facility shall
take place between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.; and
         (h)   All vehicles associated with the proposed use shall be stored in
an enclosed or screened area. The screen shall be made of vegetation, fences, a
combination of fence and landscape material, or any other material which
effectively blocks visibility of the vehicles from adjoining properties and the
public right-of-way.
      (3)   Storage yards and related outdoor storage facilities shall adhere
to the following restrictions as well as those listed above:
         (a)   All the facilities existing as of March 20, 2008, in the Central
Business District may be continued as nonconforming uses, provided however,
that if any proposed construction will result in the expansion of the footprint
of the existing facilities, then a special use permit must be obtained and the
permit shall require that the entire facility be brought into compliance with
the remaining provisions of this division (E)(3). Any actions which effectively
increase the perimeter of such a facility shall constitute an expansion of the
facility;
         (b)   The facilities shall be located on a parcel of land not less
than one half acre (21,780 square feet);
         (c)   The yard or space shall be screened by some means so that the
yard or space is not visible from adjoining properties or from a public right-
of-way; and
         (d)   No materials shall be stored permanently or temporarily outside
of the enclosed and/or screened area.
      (4)   Maintenance sheds and related indoor storage facilities shall
adhere to the following restrictions as well as those listed above:
         (a)   All the facilities existing as of March 20, 2008, in the Central
Business District may be continued as nonconforming uses, provided however,
that if any proposed construction will result in the expansion of the footprint
of the existing facilities, then a special use permit must be obtained and the
permit shall require that the entire facility be brought into compliance with
the remaining provisions of this division (E)(4). Any actions that effectively
increase the perimeter of an associated outdoor storage area shall constitute
an expansion of the entire facility;
         (b)   The construction materials and design of the storage shed and/or
structure shall be consistent with the surrounding area in which it is located;
         (c)   Any materials stored outdoors associated with the storage shed/
structure shall be screened so as to block the visibility of such from any
adjoining properties and the public right-of-way; and
         (d)   No materials shall be stored permanently or temporarily outside
of the storage shed/structure except those associated items stored within the
accessory outdoor screened storage area.
      (5)   Emergency response facilities shall adhere to the following
restrictions as well as those listed above:
         (a)   All the facilities existing as of March 20, 2008, in the Central
Business District may be continued as nonconforming uses, provided however,
that if any proposed construction will result in the expansion of the footprint
of the existing facilities, then a special use permit must be obtained and the
permit shall require that the entire facility be brought into compliance with
the remaining provisions of this division (E)(5);
         (b)   No parking for emergency vehicles shall be provided between the
front facade of the building and the street right-of-way;
         (c)   No outdoor speaker system shall be utilized by such a facility;
         (d)   Any detention or holding areas provided shall be located
internally and any associated outdoor exercise yards shall be located
internally and not be visible from adjoining properties and the street right-
of-way;
         (e)   Vehicles entering and exiting the premises of such a facility
shall not use sirens and/or emergency lights unless responding to an emergency;
and
         (f)   Lighting, including security lights, shall not produce direct
glare or other light trespass onto adjoining properties.
   (F)   Public utility stations, radio and tv towers, water and sewer plants,
water storage tanks, pump stations.
      (1)   Structures shall be enclosed by a woven wire fence at least eight
feet high.
      (2)   The lot shall be suitably landscaped, including a buffer strip at
least four feet in width and shall be composed of shrubs or trees which at
maturity will not be less than six feet high along the side and rear property
lines. This planting requirement may be modified by the Board of Adjustment
where adequate buffering exists in the form of vegetation and/or terrain.
      (3)   Entrances and exits shall be designated so as to promote public
safety.
   (G)   Kennels and animal hospitals/veterinarian clinics.
      (1)   The animal kennel or hospital, including all structures and
fencing, shall be set back at least 50 feet from all external property lines of
the facility.
      (2)   The kennel facility shall be enclosed within a security fence of at
least six feet in height. The fence and facility may require a vegetation
buffer along any part of the fenced areas where sufficient visual buffering
does not exist. The Board of Adjustment shall determine the buffer
requirements.
         (a)   Provisions for daily removal and/or disposal of all animal waste
shall be incorporated within the operation and maintenance of the animal kennel
or animal hospital.
         (b)   The design and operation of the facility shall be reviewed and
approved by the State Department of Agriculture.
   (H)   Professional campus.
      (1)   Off-street parking shall provide one parking spot for every 200
square feet of gross floor area, including all buildings, plus one additional
spot for each building on the lot.
      (2)   Each building within a professional campus shall share the same
off-street parking area.
      (3)   Each building within a professional campus shall comply with the
dimensional and density standards of §§
154.066 through
154.068 above.
      (4)   Each building within the professional campus shall house a related
allowable use.
      (5)   All buildings in the professional campus shall share access to off-
street loading and unloading of vehicles.
      (6)   Site plan requirements must be met as contained in §
154.082 so the Board of Adjustment may make the necessary findings as
prescribed in §
154.082 when the campus is proposed to be located within a district that
requires the issuance of a special use permit.
      (7)   Any professional campus development wherein one or more acres are
disturbed or 40% or more of the gross lot area is covered by impervious
surfaces shall submit a NCDENR soil and erosion control permit.
      (8)   All proposed professional campus developments must adhere to the
following provisions:
         (a)   Street yard. The number of required trees within a street yard
is normally dependent on the number of lineal feet of available street yard for
a given property. For a professional campus development, the length of the
street yard shall be increased by 50% of the actual available length of street
yard prior to the calculation used to determine the number of required trees;
         (b)   Vehicular parking area. For professional campus developments,
vehicular parking areas shall be provided with at least one large maturing tree
for every 1,500 square feet of parking area, or fraction thereof, including
drives. The trees shall be positioned so that no tree trunk is more than 100
feet from a designated vehicular parking space; and
         (c)   Additional requirements. All requirements of §
154.105 below, not inconsistent with the requirements of this division (H)
shall apply to professional campus developments as well.
   (I)   Duplex, multi-family (one building) and mobile home (single lot).
      (1)   Site plan requirements must be met as contained in §
154.082 above so the Board of Adjustment may make the necessary findings as
prescribed in §
154.082 above.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment may require a buffer strip, as defined by
this chapter, if the Board determines that the buffer would be in the best
interest of the public welfare of the neighborhood.
   (J)   Travel trailer parks (campground).
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment may require buffering consisting of
evergreen trees or shrubs located along the side and rear lot lines, but along
any street shall be setback beyond the street right-of-way. The buffer strip
shall not be less than four feet in width and shall be composed of trees or
shrubs of a type, which at maturity shall be not less than six feet in height.
This planting requirement may be modified by the Board of Adjustment where
adequate buffering exists in the form of vegetation and/or terrain.
      (2)   Plans and accompanying documentation to ensure that the water and
sewer systems proposed for the travel trailer park have been approved by the
appropriate local and state agencies.
      (3)   The density shall not exceed 25 trailer spaces per acre of gross
site area.
      (4)   Trailers shall be separated from each other and from other
structures by at least ten feet.
   (K)   Wireless telecommunications towers.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to enhance the ability of
the providers of telecommunications services to provide the services to the
community quickly, effectively and efficiently; protect residential areas and
land uses from potential adverse impacts of towers and antennas; require the
location of towers in non-residential and less developed areas; require joint
use of new and existing tower sites as a primary option rather than
construction of additional single-use towers; require users of towers and
antennas to locate them, to the extent possible, in areas where the adverse
impact on the community is minimal; require users of towers and antennas to
configure them in a way that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers
and antennas through careful design, siting, landscape screening and innovative
camouflaging techniques; consider the public's health and safety in regard to
communication towers; and avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from
tower failure through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
      (2)   Application submission and review process for towers 50 feet in
height and over; special use permit.
         (a)   Towers 50 feet high or taller require issuance of a special use
permit by the Zoning Board of Adjustment after review and recommendation of the
permit application by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   A completed tower conditional use permit application on a form
supplied by the Zoning Administrator and seven copies of all supporting
documentation identified in division (K)(4) below shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator for review at least 15 working days prior to a scheduled
Zoning Board of Adjustment meeting, provided, however, that the application
shall not be forwarded to the Zoning Board of Adjustment for consideration
until the Zoning Administrator has made his or her recommendation as described
in division (K)(2)(e) below.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the completed application
for compliance with division (K)(4) below. Any application not containing all
information required by division (K)(4) below shall be returned to the
applicant for correction and re-submission. If the Zoning Administrator deems
it necessary, he or she may retain, at the permit applicant's expense, one or
more professional engineers to assist in the reviewing of any technical
requirements and the application shall not be considered complete until the
applicant has paid the expenses. The Zoning Administrator may refer to the FCC
any information provided by the applicant that might indicate noncompliance
with the FCC's standards.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for submitting a
notice to the local newspapers and to all known property owners abutting the
property where the proposed tower is to be located. The notice shall state that
the Zoning Board of Adjustment will review and consider the tower conditional
use permit application at their next meeting.
         (e)   The Zoning Administrator shall recommend to the Zoning Board of
Adjustment either approval, approval with conditions or disapproval of the
tower permit application within 90 days of receiving the permit.
         (f)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall consider the tower Special
Use permit application at their next regularly scheduled meeting after
receiving the Zoning Administrator's recommendation.
         (g)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall take formal action to
approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the tower special use permit
application within 30 days of the meeting. If the action is to disapprove the
tower permit application, the reasons shall be noted in writing and supported
by substantial evidence contained in a written record.
      (3)   Application submission and review process for towers under 50 feet
in height.
         (a)   Towers less than 50 feet high require a permit issued by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   A completed tower permit application on a form supplied by the
Zoning Administrator and three copies of all supporting documentation
identified in division (K)(4) below shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator for review.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the completed tower permit
application for compliance with division (K)(4) below. Any application not
containing all information required by division (K)(4) below shall be returned
to the applicant for correction and re-submission. If the Zoning Administrator
deems it necessary, he or she may retain, at the permit applicant's expense,
one or more professional engineers to assist in the reviewing of any technical
requirements. The Zoning Administrator may refer to the FCC any information
provided by the applicant that might indicate non-compliance with the FCC's
standards.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall approve the application if the
Zoning Administrator finds that the application meets the approval criteria of
division (K)(5)(a) below. The Zoning Administrator shall take formal action to
approve, approve with conditions, or disapprove the tower permit application
within 30 days. If the action is to disapprove the tower permit application,
the reasons for the action shall be stated in writing and supported by
substantial evidence contained in a written record. Appeals of the decision of
the Zoning Administrator must be made to the Zoning Board of Adjustment within
30 days of the action.
      (4)   Application requirements.
         (a)   Certification. Any information of an engineering nature that the
applicant submits, whether civil, mechanical or electrical, shall be certified
by a professionally licensed engineer.
         (b)   Information required. In addition to the application the
following supporting documentation shall be required:
            1.   A preliminary major site plan which clearly indicates the
location, type and height of the proposed tower; on-site land uses and zoning;
adjacent land uses and zoning; adjacent roadways; proposed means of access;
setbacks from property lines; elevation drawings of the proposed tower and any
other structures; and any other information that has been specifically required
by the Zoning Administrator prior to the application to ensure compliance with
this section. Guidance can be provided by the Zoning Administrator to aid with
completion of the application form and its requirements;
            2.   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the
nearest residential unit and residentially zoned properties;
            3.   Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower shall survey
alternative sites, including co-location sites, and provide the resulting
information to the town. Any alternative sites within one-quarter mile of the
proposed site that are identified by the town or by community members and
provided to the applicant in writing within ten days after the application has
been filed with the town shall be evaluated by the applicant;
            4.   The separation distance from other towers pursuant to the
preceding table shall be shown on a site plan or map;
            5.   Method of fencing and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination;
            6.   A statement by the applicant as to whether construction of the
tower will accommodate co-location of additional antennas for future users;
            7.   A statement of compliance with the FCC Radio Frequency (RF)
exposure standards; and
            8.   A statement by the applicant demonstrating an estimate of the
cost of removal of the tower once it has been erected.
      (5)   Approval criteria.
         (a)   General guidelines and requirements.
            1.   Prohibited locations. Communication towers are prohibited
within the property of a national historic site or a property listed on the
National Register of Historic Places or a property listed on the State Study
List as eligible to be listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
            2.   Lot size. In the event that a tower or antenna is installed
and/or leased on a portion of a lot, the lot in its entirety will determine any
and all district development regulations that the structure may be subjected
to; including but not limited to: setback, lot-coverage and other requirements.
            3.   Tower height. Towers shall not exceed 150 feet in height.
However, applicants must supply engineering data to justify that any footage
over 120 feet is necessary to accomplish the provision of wireless service
throughout the town.
            4.   Fall zone. No tower or antenna shall be designed and/or sited
such that it poses a potential hazard to nearby residences or surrounding
properties or improvements. The minimum distance away from all habitable
structures or property lines shall be one and one-half feet to each vertical
foot of the tower unless a Professional Engineer certifies that the tower and
appurtenances will have a fall zone which is entirely within the lot where the
tower is sited. In a report, the professional engineer shall describe the tower
structure, specify the number and type of antennas it is designed to
accommodate, provide the basis for the calculations done in determining the
fall zone, and document the actual calculations performed.
            5.   Co-location potential. Any telecommunications tower 50 feet
high or taller shall be engineered and constructed to accommodate three
additional antennas that are at least as large as the largest proposed antenna
at the time of application.
            6.   Separation distance between towers. Towers shall be separated
a distance, as measured from the base of any preexisting towers. The separation
distances shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line between the
base of the preexisting tower and the base location, pursuant to a site plan,
of the proposed tower.
 
                      Monopole 50 feet in height Monopole less than 50 feet
                      or greater                 in height
Monopole 50 feet in   720 feet                   435 feet
height or greater
Monopole less than 50 435 feet                   300 feet
feet in height
 
            7.   Aesthetics.
               a.   Monopole. Towers shall be of a monopole style only.
               b.   Camouflage. The Zoning Board of Adjustment may, at its
option require as a condition of a special use permit, that a tower be
camouflaged, as for example, made to look like a tree. If the Zoning Board of
Adjustment does not choose to require an alternative tower structure or other
camouflage, any tower shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or be
painted a neutral color so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
               c.   Pleasant visual. If an antenna is installed on a structure
other than a tower, the antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical
equipment must be of a neutral color that is identical to, or closely
compatible with, the color of the supporting structure. This is in order to
make the antenna, and related equipment, as visually unobtrusive as possible.
               d.   Design. Transmission lines shall be placed inside the
monopole and the pole shall be designed to accommodate placement and
installation of the lines of future co-locators.
               e.   Lights. No tower or antenna shall have affixed or attached
to it in any way any lights, reflectors, flashers, day-time strobes or steady
night time light or other illumination devices. This restriction against lights
shall not apply to towers which have been combined with light standards for
illumination of ball fields, parking lots, playgrounds or other similar public
uses.
               f.   Signs. Signs on a tower, or on any portion of the premises
leased for wireless communication use, shall be limited to those needed to
identify the property and the owner and to warn of any danger. Signs which
advertise for commercial purposes are prohibited.
               g.   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be required to minimize the
adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through careful design,
siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging techniques. Tower
facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant materials that
effectively screens the view of the tower compound from adjacent residential
property. The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at least four
feet wide outside the perimeter of the compound. Plant materials forming the
visual buffer may exist on the subject property or be installed as part of the
proposed facility, but existing mature plant growth and natural land forms on
the site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. The Zoning
Administrator may waive these requirements in locations where the view of the
tower base is obstructed by existing buildings or natural topography and cannot
be viewed from adjacent property or a public street.
            8.   State or federal requirements. All towers and antennas must
meet or exceed current standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any
other state or federal government agency with the authority to regulate towers
and antennas. If the standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of
the towers and antennas governed by this chapter shall bring the towers and
antennas into compliance with the revised standards and regulations within six
months of the effective date of the standards and regulations, unless a
different compliance schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal
agency. Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with the revised
standards and regulations may constitute grounds for the removal of the tower
or antenna at the owner's expense, to the extent consistent with applicable
law.
            9.   Repeater. At any time, the town and the county shall each have
the right to install, at their own expense, one communications repeater on the
tower and to use the repeater with no cost for the use being due to the
applicant, the tower owner or the operator, provided, however, that the
repeater shall not interfere with the use of the tower by the applicant or co-
locators thereon.
            10.   Building codes; safety standards. To ensure the structural
integrity of towers and antennas, the owners of the facilities shall ensure
that they are maintained in compliance applicable with standards contained in
the State Building Code.
            11.   Security fencing. Towers shall be enclosed by security
fencing not less than six feet in height and no more than eight feet in height
and shall be equipped in such a manner as to deter climbing.
            12.   Accessory equipment storage. The equipment cabinets and other
structures used in association with towers or antennas shall comply with the
following provisions:
               a.   Equipment cabinets and/or other structures shall comply
with all applicable building codes;
               b.   Accessory buildings shall satisfy the minimum zoning
district setback requirements; and
               c.   Equipment cabinets and/or structures shall be no greater
than 14 feet in height or 300 square feet in gross floor area. The entry or
access side of a cabinet and/or structure shall be gated by a solid, sight-
obscuring gate that is separate from the cabinet and/or structure. The access
way shall not face residentially zoned property.
            13.   Co-location.
               a.   Applicants and permittees shall make a good faith effort to
share wireless communication structures, facilities and sites where feasible
and appropriate. Good faith effort shall include, when a determination that the
feasibility of the placement would require technical data, then the applicants
and permittees must share the data, and may include negotiations for erection
of a replacement support structure to accommodate co-location. A competitive
conflict to co-location or financial burden caused by sharing the information
normally will not be considered as an exception to the duty of good faith.
               b.   Towers shall be engineered and constructed to accommodate
three additional antennas. The applicant shall demonstrate that the tower is
designed to support the load of four antenna.
               c.   Towers between 50 feet and 135 feet shall be constructed so
that they can be extended up to 150 feet at a later time if another applicant
seeks to co-locate on the tower. The cost of the extension shall be borne by
the co-locator.
               d.   The applicant shall allow co-locators to share use of the
applicant's generator for the tower. The applicant will work with the town to
determine suitable times to run the generator in non-emergency situations.
               e.   In the event a dispute arises as to whether a permittee has
exercised good faith in accommodating other users, the Zoning Administrator may
require the applicant to obtain a third-party technical study at the
applicant's expense. The Zoning Administrator may review any information
submitted by the applicant and permittee(s) in determining whether good faith
has been exercised.
               f.   No co-location may be required where the shared use would
or does result in significant interference with the broadcast or reception
capabilities of the existing wireless communication facilities or the failure
of the facilities to meet federal standards for emissions.
               g.   Failure to comply with co-location requirements may result
in denial of a permit request or revocation of an existing permit.
         (b)   Factors considered in granting special use permits for towers 50
feet high or taller. In determining whether to issue a special use permit, the
Board of Adjustment shall consider, any other standards in this chapter
governing conditional use permits, including, but not limited to, the standards
set forth in §
154.082(C) above of this chapter, and the following factors:
            1.   Height of the proposed tower;
            2.   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and
residentially zoned areas;
            3.   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
            4.   Surrounding topography;
            5.   Surrounding tree coverage and vegetation;
            6.   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that reduce or eliminate visual obtrusiveness. Specifically,
the design of the buildings and related structures shall, to the extent
possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening and landscaping that will
blend them into the natural setting and surrounding buildings located adjacent
to the tower or antenna site. The Zoning Board of Adjustment may, at its option
require as a condition of a special use permit, that the tower be camouflaged;
            7.   Proposed ingress and egress;
            8.   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technology. No new tower 50 feet high or taller shall be permitted
unless the applicant demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Board
of Adjustment that no existing tower, structure or alternative technology, that
does not require the use of towers or structures, can adequately serve the
carrier's purposes, even if it does so by other means than accommodating the
proposed tower or antenna. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing
tower, structure or alternative technology can accommodate the applicant's
proposed tower or antenna may consist of the following without limitation:
               a.   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet the applicant's engineering requirements;
               b.   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height
and cannot be extended to sufficient height to meet the applicant's engineering
requirements;
               c.   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient
structural strength to support the applicant's proposed antenna;
               d.   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause
electromagnetic interference with the antenna on the existing towers or
structures, or the antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause
interference with the applicant's proposed antenna;
               e.   The fees, costs or contractual provisions required by the
owner in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing
tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable. Costs required by the owners
of existing towers or structures that exceed new tower development are presumed
to be unreasonable;
               f.   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting
factors that render existing towers and structures unsuitable; and
               g.   The applicant demonstrates that alternative technologies
that do not require the use of towers or structures are unsuitable. Costs of
alternative technology that exceed new tower or antenna development shall not
be presumed to render the technology unsuitable.
      (6)   Authority to remove; required bond. A performance bond naming the
town as the obligee shall be set for 1.25 times the estimated cost of removal
of all towers, antennas, and accessory equipment structures that are approved.
The performance bond shall be filed prior to issuance of a zoning permit. This
amount will be determined by a removal company and certified by a Licensed
Engineer, and provided to the Zoning Administrator at the time of application.
The costs of the Licensed Engineer's certification of the removal amount and
the selection of the Engineer will be borne by the applicant. For every year
following approval, the bond shall increase by an inflation factor based upon
the Consumer Price Index (CPI) Index. The applicant / permittee shall furnish a
copy of the bond to the Zoning Administrator each year, and failure to do so
shall result in denial of a permit request or revocation of an existing permit.
      (7)   Removal of abandoned antennas and towers.
         (a)   Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous
period of 180 days shall be considered abandoned, and the owner of the facility
shall physically remove the antenna or tower at its own cost within 90 days of
receipt of notice from the Zoning Administrator notifying the owner of the
abandonment.
         (b)   If there are two or more users of a single tower or antenna,
then this provision shall not become effective until all users cease using the
tower or antenna for the prescribed period.
         (c)   PHYSICALLY REMOVE shall include, but not be limited to:
            1.   Removal of antennas, mount, equipment shelters and security
barriers from the subject property;
            2.   Proper disposal of the waste materials from the site in
accordance with local and state solid waste disposal regulations; and
            3.   Restoring the location of the facility to its natural
condition, except that any landscaping and grading shall remain in the after
condition.
   (L)   Large scale commercial developments.
      (1)   The proposed use will complement the existing commercial uses in
the town and will add to the economic diversity and vitality of the town.
      (2)   The Location Quotient (LQ) for the industry within which the
proposed use falls under (according to the North American Industrial
Classification Standard), including the projected number of persons employed by
the proposed project, is less than one. If the computed Location Quotient (LQ)
is greater than one, the proposed project may be, but necessarily, denied.
Reasons for approving a project whose computed LQ is greater than one may
include a significant amount of proposed job creation, a proposed use that may
be considered over-represented countywide, but not so within the vicinity of
the town, the proposed use will support other existing industries, the proposed
project is an infill project or a brownfields redevelopment project, or the
proposed project significantly conforms with any existing and adopted land use
plan for the town. A LQ can be computed using the following formula:
      LQ = (ei + et) + (E, + Et); where:
   e,= local employment in industry i;
   et = total local employment;
   E, = national employment in industry i; and
   Et = total national employment.
      (3)   The proposed use may only be viably sustained with a structure
larger than that which is allowed under §
154.068(B) above.
      (4)   LID stormwater management facilities shall be incorporated into the
proposed parking, internal circulation system, and property as a whole to such
an extent as to slow, treat, and cool the runoff from the entire proposed
parking and internal circulation areas generated by the first half inch of rain
of a rainstorm.
      (5)   All required and otherwise proposed pedestrian paths shall be
provided with other pedestrian amenities, such as benches, special landscaping
areas, trash cans, decorative light posts, decorative bollards, walls,
sculptures or other pieces of artwork, or other approved amenities. The
amenities shall be provided in such quantity and spacing as approved by the
Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (6)   The architectural design and site design of the proposed commercial
structure are such that the larger commercial structure will compliment and fit
into the context of the community within the town.
         (a)   This is accomplished by incorporating a combination of the
following:
            1.   Use of high quality exterior finishes such as stone, heavy
timber, brick or some other approved material;
            2.   Include varied architectural elements such as arcades,
archways, recesses, projections, entrance ways or some other approved elements;
            3.   Use of carefully designed landscaping and screening to
effectively visually break down the mass of the building;
            4.   Use of neutral/earth toned colors on the exterior facade;
            5.   Careful site design and layout; and
            6.   Other approved architectural, design or engineering methods.
         (b)   The following examples show practices and building elements that
may not be exactly suited for all large scale commercial developments; however,
the examples do exemplify principles that can be applied to all developments.
Example 1:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1273.jpg]
 
         (c)   The above example shows a number of desirable architectural
details that should be considered in commercial building design. The use of
heavy timber and stone on the outer facade along with neutral colors helps this
building conform to the context of a mountain town. The exterior materials also
enable the building to settle into the scenery rather than stand out as a
severe contrast. The roof is varied in height and is broken down into multiple
sections reducing the appearance of the mass of the building. This aids in the
aesthetics of the building as well as the feel of the building from the
perspective of a pedestrian. This helps maintain a sense of quaintness and
offers a scale of building that a human can identify with. The covered
entranceway offers a nice transition to the building for patrons and
pedestrians and helps reduce the scale and mass of the front facade, again
aiding the building in maintaining a human and personable scale.
Example 2:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1276.jpg]
 
         (d)   In this example the roof line is broken into multiple smaller
sections helping to reduce the scale of the building and offer visual interest.
The sectioned brick columns also lend the building to a pedestrian scale.
Example 3:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1279.jpg]
 
         (e)   The above building is a better example of desired site layout
than of actual architectural detailing. The building is set back from the road,
which, in this case, helps maintain the view of the surrounding mountains.
Setting a building back from the road may not always be appropriate, but
specific site characteristics should be taken into account when designing a
project.
Example 4:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1282.jpg]
 
         (f)   The previous examples were of newer buildings, while this
example and the ones following are of older buildings in town. This example
depicts how subtle architectural details can add character and interest to a
building. The change in brick work around the window helps offer visual
interest to the facade.
Example 5:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1285.jpg]
 
         (g)   This example shows how a roof line can be varied when brick is
used as the main construction material and the roof is flat. Flat roofs should
be provided with a parapet wall and the parapet wall should be varied in order
to offer visual interest.
Example 6:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1288.jpg]
 
         (h)   The above example actually shows multiple buildings that are
connected to each other. However, due to the fact that they are in fact
connected to one another, they represent one singular large building very well.
In this example the roof line is varied (although all of the roofs are flat)
and the facade is broken up by awnings. Breaking down the expanse of the front
facade makes the building more inviting. The awnings also offer a degree of
protection from the weather to pedestrians.
      (7)   A Traffic Impact Analysis (TIA) shall be completed in accordance
with the Federal Highway Administration's (FHW) Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices (MUTCD) and all standard guidelines set forth by the State
Department of Transportation (NCDOT). Proposed projects that, upon completion
of a TIA, are projected to increase the Average Daily Trip (ADT) count on an
adjacent road by 25% or more may be, but not necessarily, denied by the Zoning
Board of Adjustment. All recommendations contained within the submitted TIA
shall be implemented.
      (8)   In no case will a special use permit be issued for a retail
development (for the purposes of this division (L)(8) retail development shall
be construed to mean any development whose intended use in part or in whole is
the sale of goods or commodities directly to consumers) whose proposed building
footprint is larger than 15,000 square feet in the aggregate.
      (9)   (a)   The property on which the proposed building is to be
constructed is not within 1,000 feet of another parcel whereon a commercial
structure exists or is proposed to exist whose building footprint is over
10,000 square feet in size.
         (b)   This division (L)(9) shall not apply to planned commercial
development projects that meet the following criteria:
            1.   Subdivision of land is involved with the proposed project;
            2.   The proposed development is developed under single or common
ownership;
            3.   The proposed project intends to create one or more buildings
that each are to have a building footprint greater in size than 10,000 square
feet or to create multiple structures that exceed 10,000 square feet in
aggregate building footprint area;
            4.   The development proposed includes in the design/proposal all
utilities, roads and other circulation systems, open spaces and buildings as
one cohesive design; and
            5.   All of the buildings are proposed to share common entrances
and exits and parking facilities.
   (M)   Other special uses. Other special uses not listed in this section
shall meet at least the site plan requirements contained in §
154.082 above and provide other information so the Board of Adjustment may make
the finding as prescribed in §
154.082 above.
(Ord., Art. X, § 1003, passed - -)
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 154.095 ZONING AFFECTS EVERY BUILDING AND USE.
   No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part there of
shall be erected, moved or altered except in conformity with the regulations
herein specified for the district in which it is located, except as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1100, passed - -)
§ 154.096 RELATIONSHIP OF BUILDING TO LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected, moved or structurally altered shall be
located on a single lot and in no case shall there be more than one principal
building and its customary accessory buildings on the lot, except in the case
of a designed planned unit development, a detached accessory dwelling unit and
its associated principal dwelling, a mobile home park or a professional campus.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1101, passed - -)
§ 154.097 REQUIRED YARDS AND OTHER SPACES.
   No part of a yard or open spaces, or off-street parking or loading space
required in §§
154.106 and
154.107 below or required in connection with any building for the purpose of
complying with this chapter, shall be including as a part of a yard, open space
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1102, passed - -)
§ 154.098 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings should not detract or
interfere with adjustment properties. Therefore, accessory buildings shall not
be erected within any front yard, or minimum side yard setback, or within 20
feet of any side street or highway right-of-way line, or within ten feet of any
rear lot line.
   (B)   Donation boxes. Notwithstanding the other provisions of this section,
unattended donation boxes are prohibited unless located at the operational
site, or leased property, of a company or organization that collects used
clothing or household materials for resale or donation as a primary business
function. Such donation boxes shall be subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Shall only be located in Highway Commercial (HC) zoning districts;
      (2)   An approved zoning permit shall be obtained prior to the donation
box being located on a lot;
      (3)   Shall not obstruct pedestrian or vehicular circulation, not be
located in public rights-of-way, required building setbacks, vehicle
accommodation areas, or other unsafe locations;
      (4)   Shall be low reflectance earth tone, muted, subtle, or neutral
colors;
      (5)   Shall be no larger than six feet in width, six feet in length, and
six feet in height;
      (6)   Shall be constructed of noncombustible material and properly
maintained;
      (7)   Any donations left outside of the box shall be removed within 24
hours; and
      (8)   Prohibited donation boxes that exist at the time this section is
adopted shall be removed within 60 days of adoption.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1103, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 2015-03, passed 3-26-2015)
§ 154.099 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   When allowed, an accessory dwelling unit, whether an accessory
apartment or a detached accessory dwelling unit, shall be subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   The principal use of the lot shall be a detached single-family
dwelling;
      (2)   No more than one accessory dwelling unit shall be permitted on a
single deeded lot in conjunction with the principal dwelling unit;
      (3)   An accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed in similar design
to that of the principal structure and of similar materials so as to create a
uniform appearance on the lot;
      (4)   The accessory dwelling unit shall be owned by the same person as
owns the principal dwelling unit;
      (5)   The accessory dwelling unit shall not be served by a driveway
separate from that serving the principal dwelling;
      (6)   Two additional off-street parking spaces shall be provided for the
accessory dwelling unit; and
      (7)   The accessory dwelling unit shall be a minimum of 200 square feet
and a maximum of 35% of the gross floor area of the principal structure or 800
square feet, whichever is less.
   (B)   When allowed, a detached accessory dwelling unit shall be subject to
the following requirements in addition to the requirements listed above:
      (1)   A special use permit must be obtained in order to construct a
detached accessory dwelling unit;
      (2)   A detached accessory dwelling structure may be dwelling area only
or may combine the dwelling with a garage, workshop, studio or similar
permitted accessory use, provided that the total floor area of the structure
does not exceed the area limitations set forth in division (A)(7) above;
      (3)   A detached accessory dwelling unit shall be completely located
behind the rear facade of the principal structure and the property shall retain
a single-family appearance from the street;
      (4)   A detached accessory dwelling unit shall be located on a lot or
parcel of land having at least 50% more lot area than the minimum lot area
required for the zoning district in which the lot or parcel is located;
      (5)   A detached accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed in
accordance with the dimensional requirements of accessory structures and
buildings; and
      (6)   Any time a detached accessory dwelling unit is located within a
distance of five feet from the required setbacks outlined in §
154.098 above, a vegetative buffer strip, as defined in §
154.005 above, shall be required the whole length of the dwelling on the side
(s) that are within five feet of the required setback(s).
   (C)   Use of a travel trailer or recreational vehicle (RV) as an accessory
dwelling unit shall be prohibited.
      (1)   Those vehicles may be used to house out-of-town visitors during
temporary visits aggregating no more than 30 days during any 12-month period.
      (2)   Upon application by the property owner, the zoning administrator or
his or her designee shall have discretion to extend the 30-day time limitation
to a period not to exceed 180 days within any 12-month period.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1104, passed - -)
§ 154.100 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Standards pertaining to home occupations are contained within the definition
of a home occupation as displayed in §§
154.004 and
154.005 above.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1105, passed - -)
§ 154.101 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   Sight distances at intersections must meet the standards for secondary roads
established by the State Department of Transportation. On corner lots no
planting, structure, sign, fence, wall or other obstruction shall be erected so
as to interfere with the sight distance.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1106, passed - -)
§ 154.102 VACANT STRUCTURES AND LOTS.
   Vacant structures, lots and open spaces shall be maintained consistent with
the surrounding neighborhood. All structures shall remain structurally sound.
Vegetation shall be neatly trimmed, and the accumulation of unsightly debris
shall be prohibited.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1107, passed - -)
§ 154.103 TRAVEL TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   Travel trailers and/or recreational vehicles may be used as temporary single
family dwelling only in those districts that permit travel trailer parks, and
only within the parks. In no case shall a travel trailer or recreational
vehicle be used as a single family dwelling on an individual lot or in
conjunction with a primary residence on an individual lot.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1108, passed - -)
§ 154.104 SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   Where applicable, all proposed development projects or land disturbing
activities should comply with G.S. § 113A-54, and Rules and Regulations for
Erosion and Sediment Control as established by the State Sedimentation Control
Commission, State Department of Natural Resources and Community Development.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1109, passed - -)
§ 154.105 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Intent and purpose (general).
      (1)   To encourage the preservation of existing trees and vegetation;
      (2)   To assist with noise reduction, glare and heat abatement;
      (3)   To provide visual buffering and enhance the beautification of the
town;
      (4)   To safeguard and enhance property values and to protect public and
private investment;
      (5)   To provide habitat for living things that might not otherwise be
found in urban and suburban environs.
   (B)   Application. The requirements of this section shall apply to all uses
of land, buildings and structures located within the town Zoning Jurisdiction
which are not exempted in subparagraph (2) below.
      (1)   The following areas are required to be landscaped:
         (a)   Street yards;
         (b)   Vehicular parking areas;
         (c)   Transitional areas between non-residential and residential uses;
and
         (d)   Trash dumpster and container areas.
      (2)   The landscaping requirements shall not apply to:
         (a)   A detached single-family dwelling on its own separate lot;
         (b)   A two-family dwelling on its own separate lot; or
         (c)   Existing uses and building, including repairs, or improvements
to the interiors and exteriors of existing buildings which do not result in
expansions or square footage.
   (C)   Landscaping plan approval. Whenever an application is filed with the
town for a zoning permit for any use of land to which these landscaping
requirements apply, the application shall be accompanied by a landscape
development plan. The plan shall be in sufficient detail to enable the Town
Zoning Administrator to determine whether or not the plan, when fully
implemented, shall include at a minimum the following specific information:
      (1)   The locations, dimensions and descriptions of all area to be
landscaped, including buffers, screens and fences;
      (2)   The locations, species, spacing and size (height and caliper) of
proposed trees that are required;
      (3)   The locations, species (as appropriate), spacing and sizes of
planting materials and fences that are proposed to serve as required screens
and buffers;
      (4)   The locations, dimensions and descriptions of any barriers to be
installed at the time to protect trees and plants; and
      (5)   A description of proposed means for watering and soil stabilization
for planted areas.
   (D)   General requirements and conditions.
      (1)   A conditional certificate of occupancy may be issued by the Zoning
Administrator for the temporary use and occupancy of a building, structure or
land for a maximum period of 180 days from the date of the issuance of the
certificate whenever the landscaping requirements of this chapter are not
complied with on time for the intended use and occupancy of a building,
structure or land. Should these landscaping requirements not be complied with
in full upon the expiration of the conditional certificate of occupancy, the
use of the property for which the certificate was issued shall be discontinued
and further use of the property beyond the expiration date of the certificate
shall constitute an illegal use and occupancy of the property.
      (2)   It is not the intent of this section to prevent the use of a
material or method of construction not specifically prescribed by this section,
especially whenever a stream, natural rock formation or other physiographic
obstacles make conventional compliance extraordinarily difficult or impossible.
Alternate materials and methods may, therefore, be utilized to satisfy these
requirements, provided that any proposed alternate is suitable for the purpose
intended, and is at least the equivalent of that specifically prescribed by
this section in quality, effectiveness, durability, hardiness and performance.
The Zoning Administrator may require that sufficient evidence and data be
submitted to substantiate any claim that may be made in this regard.
 
Caliper of Existing Tree # Required Trees
2-inch to 6-inch         1 large maturing tree
6-inch to 12-inch        2 large maturing trees
12-inch to 18-inch       3 large maturing trees
18-inch to 24-inch       4 large maturing trees
Over 24-inch             5 large maturing trees
 
         (a)   Existing trees which meet or exceed the minimum standards, as
established herein, may be used to satisfy these requirements, and an allowance
for the preservation of existing trees may be applied at the following rate:
         (b)   In order to qualify for the above table, each existing tree to
be preserved must be uniformly encircled with an effective protected ground
area which shall extend at least seven feet from the base of the tree trunk in
all directions, or at least one foot per inch of caliper of the tree trunk
measured at grade, whichever is greater.
      (3)   During construction, all protected ground areas shall be clearly
marked and identified on the site by effective barriers, such as a fence at
least three feet high using 2X4 posts not more than ten feet apart with one by
four horizontal rails and/or covered with orange polyethylene laminar safety
fencing, or other effective barriers. No credit will be allowed if there is any
encroachment of construction, construction activity or construction materials
within the protected ground area.
      (4)   Landscaping shall not obstruct the view of motorists using any
street, private drive, parking aisle or other approaches to street
intersections so as to constitute a condition endangering the public safety
upon any such street, driveway, parking aisle or street intersection.
      (5)   All required planting and landscaped areas shall be maintained at
all times in good, stable and healthy condition.
   (E)   Specific landscaping requirements.
      (1)   Street yards.
         (a)   It is the intent of this section to encourage a landscape
planting area, hereinafter called a "street yard", adjacent and parallel to the
street right-of-way, but not within it, and containing plantings of trees, and
which shall be grassed, and/or mulched with organic material and may contain
other plantings of shrubs and/or flowers.
         (b)   The purpose of street yards is to provide a more pleasing view
from the ways of travel, to provide for a continuity of vegetation throughout
the zoning jurisdiction of the town, to reduce the amount of impervious surface
and storm water runoff, to filter air, provide shade and otherwise improve the
microclimate of the streets.
            1.   Each street yard should contain at least one large maturing
tree or two small maturing trees for every 50 linear feet of street yard, or
fraction thereof, as measured from the corners of the lot, and the trees shall
be located so that at least one such tree will be within each 75 linear feet of
street yard. Where the trees are to be grouped, or clustered, large maturing
trees shall be spaced at least 20 feet apart, trunk to trunk, and small
maturing trees shall be spaced at least 12 feet apart, trunk to trunk. Large
maturing trees in a side yard shall be planted at least ten feet from any
common property line.
            2.   A large maturing tree shall mean any tree, evergreen or
deciduous, which normally grows to an average mature height of at least 35
feet, and shall have a caliper of at least one and one half inches and a
minimum height of eight feet at planting in accordance with AAN (American
Association of Nurserymen) standards. Addendum A included a list of recommended
tree species.
            3.   Large maturing tree species shall not be planted under
overhead utility lines.
            4.   Adequate wheel stops or curbs shall be installed for the
protection of required trees and plantings that are located or expected to grow
to any point within five feet of a vehicular parking area. The wheel stops or
curbs shall be a minimum of six inches in height and shall be adequately
anchored to the ground, and may be concrete, rot-resistant heavy timbers or
other effective materials.
      (2)   Vehicular parking area. A vehicular parking area is an outdoor open
area on a lot where motor vehicles are parked. The intent of this section is to
provide for trees and planting areas within or adjacent to the vehicular
parking areas in order to modify and reduce visual, environmental, and
aesthetic effects of the areas. These requirements have been developed to
reduce the rate of storm water runoff in paved areas; provide shade, noise
management, aid in the filtering of air from gaseous pollutants, and other
beneficial environmental effects; provide for live vegetation, a more pleasing
view from the ways of travel, and from nearby properties and to break the
visual blight created by large expanses of vehicular parking area.
         (a)   All vehicular parking areas shall be provided with at least one
large maturing tree for each 2,000 square feet, or fraction thereof, including
drives. The trees shall be located and arranged so that no tree trunk will be
more than 75 feet from a designated vehicular parking space. For up to 25% of
the number of large trees required, two small maturing trees may be substituted
for one large maturing tree.
         (b)   The trees shall be planted within planting areas (i.e. islands)
having a minimum of 300 square feet of contiguous growing areas and a minimum
dimension of seven feet for each large maturing tree; and a minimum of 200
square feet of contiguous growing area and a minimum dimension of five feet for
each small maturing tree. Plantings on the perimeters of the parking area shall
satisfy this requirement.
         (c)   Required planting areas shall contain planting soil suitable for
the plantings and conditions, and shall be grassed and/or mulched with organic
material so that no bare ground is exposed. The areas may contain other
plantings of shrubs or flowers.
         (d)   Large maturing trees shall not be planted under overhead utility
lines.
         (e)   Adequate wheel stops or curbs shall be installed for the
protection of trees and other plantings that are located or expected to grow to
any point within five feet of a vehicular parking area, including drives and
the like: the wheel stops or curbs shall be a minimum of six inches in height
and shall be adequately anchored to the ground, and may be of concrete, rot
resistant heavy timbers, or other effective materials.
      (3)   Screening.
         (a)   Any non-residential use located in either the HC, IND or PS
Districts and located on property abutting any R-1 or R-2 Residential District,
unless separated by a public street right-of-way, shall provide a screening
device as described below.
         (b)   The screening device shall be provided along the full length of
any common property line and shall be maintained as long as the conditions
requiring the original installation exists, even if active operations cease.
         (c)   The requirement for the installation of a screening device shall
be initiated by the occurrence of any one or more of the following activities
on the non-residential property:
            1.   The initial use, development or occupancy of the non-
residential property;
            2.   Any change in use or occupancy of the non-residential property
which results from a change in the zoning classification of the nonresidential
property; and/or
            3.   Any building expansion that increases the floor area of the
nonresidential use or any addition of parking that provides ten or more spaces,
whether required or not.
         (d)   The screening device shall be provided by the non-residential
use even if the abutting residentially zoned land is vacant.
         (e)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
            SCREENING DEVICE. A screen that is at least 90% opaque from the
ground to a height of at least six feet. The screen is intended to block visual
contact between uses and to create a strong impression of spatial separation.
The screen may be composed of a wall, fence, landscaped earth berm, planted
vegetation, or existing vegetation. Compliance of planted vegetative screens or
natural vegetation will be judged on the basis of the average mature height and
density of foliage of the subject species, or field observation of existing
vegetation. In any case where vegetation, either existing or proposed, is to be
used as the required screening device, if the vegetation is to be less than ten
feet in width (thickness), a fence, wall or similar device at least 50% opaque
and six feet in height shall be used in combination with the vegetation. In all
cases, the screen must be at least 90% opaque in all seasons of the year.
Planted vegetation must be a minimum of four feet high and one inch in caliper,
measured six inches above grade, when planted. Existing vegetation must be
equivalent. In no case shall the screening device required by this section
interfere with visibility at intersections or with visibility at entrances and
exits at public streets. Any trees within the ten foot required buffer yard
width may be included in the screening devise.
      (4)   Trash container and dumpster screens/buffers. The large metal boxes
commonly known as "dumpsters" are a type of "trash container" as such term is
used herein. These "dumpsters" are, however, referred to in this section by
specific name for purposes of emphasis and clarity. It is the intent of this
section to provide for visual screens and/or buffers between trash container
and dumpster locations and all street rights-of-way and adjoining properties.
         (a)   Trash containers and dumpsters shall not be located in the front
yard of any property and shall be screened from view on all sides, except for
one opening not greater than ten feet across in width to allow for service
access. A screen that is at least 90% opaque from the ground to a height of at
least eight feet shall be required. The screen is intended to block visual
contact and to create a strong impression of spatial separation. The screen may
be composed of a wall, fence, planted vegetation, or existing vegetation.
         (b)   Screens and/or buffers intended to satisfy this requirement
shall be as approved by the Town Manager. Existing dumpsters on town property
or street rights-of-way will not be grandfathered.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1110, passed - -)
§ 154.106 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any parcel of land, use of land, building or structures existing at the time
of the adoption of this chapter, or any amendment thereto, that does not
conform to the use or dimensional requirements of the district in which it is
located, may be continued and maintained subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   Nonconforming vacant lots. This category of nonconformance consists of
vacant lots for which plats or deeds have been recorded in the Register of
Deeds Office of the county, which at the time of the adoption of this chapter
fail to comply with the minimum area and width requirements of the districts in
which they are located. Any nonconforming lot may be used for any of the uses
permitted in the district in which it is located provided that:
      (1)   Where the lot area is not more than 20% below the minimum specified
in this chapter or other ordinance or other dimensional requirements cannot be
met, the Board of Adjustment is authorized to approve as a variance the
dimensions as shall conform as closely as possible to the required dimensions.
      (2)   Where the lot area is more than 20% below the minimum specified in
this chapter or other dimensional requirements cannot be met, the Board of
Adjustment is authorized to approve as a variance the dimensions as shall
conform as closely possible to the required dimensions.
   (B)   Nonconforming occupied lots. This category of nonconformance consists
of lots, occupied by buildings or structures at the time of the adoption of
this chapter, that fail to comply with the minimum requirements for area,
width, yard and setbacks for the district in which they are located. These lots
may continue to be used.
   (C)   Nonconforming open uses of land. This category of nonconformance
consists of lots used for storage yards, used car lots, auto wrecking,
junkyards and similar open spaces where the only buildings on the lot are
incidental and accessory to the open use of the lot and where the use of the
land is not permitted to be established hereafter, under this chapter, in the
district in which it is located. A legally established nonconforming open use
of land may be continued except as follows:
      (1)   When a nonconforming open use of land has been changed to a
conforming use, it shall not thereafter revert to any nonconforming uses;
      (2)   Nonconforming open use of land shall be changed only to conforming
uses;
      (3)   A nonconforming open use of land shall not be enlarged to cover
more land than was occupied by that use when it became nonconforming; and
      (4)   When any nonconforming open use of land is discontinued for a
period in excess of 120 days, any future use of the land shall be limited to
those uses permitted in the district in which the land is located. Vacancy and/
or non-use of the land, regardless of the intent of the owner or tenant, shall
constitute discontinuance under this provision.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses and structures. This category of nonconformance
consists of buildings or structures used at the time of enactment of this
chapter for purposes of use not permitted in the district in which they are
located. These uses may be continued as follows.
      (1)   An existing nonconforming use may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or higher classification, provided that the other
conditions in this section are complied with. For the purpose of this chapter,
the rank of uses from higher to lower shall be:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Public;
         (c)   Commercial; and
         (d)   Industrial.
      (2)   When a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use, it
shall not thereafter be used for any nonconforming use.
      (3)   A nonconforming use may not be extended or enlarged, nor shall a
nonconforming structure be altered except as follows:
         (a)   Structural alterations as required by law or ordinance to secure
the safety of the structure are permissible;
         (b)   Maintenance and repair necessary to keep a nonconforming
structure in sound condition are permissible; or
         (c)   Expansion of a nonconforming use of a building or structure into
portions of the structure which, at the time the use became nonconforming, were
already erected and arranged or designed for the nonconforming use is
permissible.
      (4)   When any nonconforming use of a building or structure is
discontinued for a period in excess of 120 days, the building or structure
shall not thereafter be used except in conformance with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   (E)   Reconstruction of damaged buildings or structures. Any nonconforming
use, which has been damaged by fire, wind, flood or other causes, may be
repaired and used as before provided.
      (1)   Repairs as initiated within six months and completed within one
year of the damage.
      (2)   The total amount of space devoted to a nonconforming use may not be
increased.
      (3)   Reconstructed buildings may not be more nonconforming with respect
to dimensional restrictions.
      (4)   Damage to buildings and structures do not excess 60% of its fair
market value immediately prior to damage.
   (F)   Reconstruction of mobile home parks. Mobile home parks that become
nonconforming uses shall be permitted to continue operation, and existing
spaces within the mobile home park may continue to be occupied by mobile homes
even after a space has been vacated; however, these mobile home parks shall not
be expanded or increased in size and no additional spaces designed for
occupancy by a mobile home shall be added to the site after the adoption of
this chapter. A mobile home park that is discontinued for 120 days shall not be
reestablished.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1111, passed - -)
§ 154.107 OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. Outdoor lighting shall be designed to provide the
minimum lighting necessary to ensure adequate safety, night vision and comfort,
reduce light pollution and not create or cause excessive glare on adjacent
properties and street rights-of-way.
   (B)   IESNA cutoff classifications. The following descriptions are designed
with minimal word modifications to provide non-technical clarity. See the
appendix for diagrams of these cutoff classifications.
      (1)   Full cutoff. A fixture light distribution where no light intensity
is emitted at or above a horizontal plane drawn through the bottom of the
fixture and no more than 10% of the lamp's light intensity is emitted at or
above an angle ten degrees below that horizontal plane, at all lateral angles
around the fixture.
      (2)   Cutoff. A fixture light distribution where no more than 2.5% of a
lamp's light intensity is emitted at or above a horizontal plane drawn through
the bottom of the fixture and no more than 10% of the lamp's light intensity is
emitted at or above an angle ten degrees below that horizontal plane, at all
lateral angles around the fixture.
      (3)   Semi-cutoff. A fixture light distribution where no more than 5% of
a lamp's light intensity is emitted at or above a horizontal plane drawn
through the bottom of the fixture and no more than 20% of the lamp's light
intensity is emitted at or above an angle ten degrees below that horizontal
plane, at all lateral angles around the fixture
      (4)   Noncutoff. A fixture light distribution where there is no light
intensity limitation in the zone above the maximum distribution of light
intensity.
   (C)   Light measurement technique. Light level measurements shall be made at
the property line of the property upon which the light to be measured is being
generated. If measurement on private property is not possible or practical,
light level measurements may be made at the boundary of the right-of-way that
adjoins the property of the complainant or at any other location on the
property of the complainant. Measurements shall be made at finished grade
(ground level), with the light-registering portion of the meter held parallel
to the ground pointing up. The meter shall have cosine and color correction and
have an accuracy tolerance of no greater than plus or minus 5%. Measurements
shall be taken with a light meter that has been calibrated within the previous
two years. Light levels are specified, calculated and measured in footcandles
(FC). All FC values are maintained footcandles unless specified otherwise. See
the definition for maintained footcandles in §§
154.004 and
154.005 above for maximum allowed light loss factors.
   (D)   General standards for outdoor lighting.
      (1)   A lighting plan shall be provided for review and must be approved
prior to the issuance of the building permit. The lighting plan shall
demonstrate a consideration for reduced energy consumption through the
selection of energy efficient fixtures.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified in the following divisions, the maximum
light level shall be one- half maintained footcandle at any property line in a
residential district, or on a lot occupied by a dwelling, congregate care or
congregate living structure, unless otherwise approved by the town. All
floodlights shall be installed such that the fixture shall be aimed down at
least 45 degrees from vertical. These lights shall be positioned such that any
such fixture located within 50 feet of a public street right-of-way is mounted
and aimed perpendicular to the right-of-way, with a side-to-side horizontal
aiming tolerance not to exceed 15 degrees from perpendicular to the right-of-
way. The Zoning Administrator may require shields to be installed on
floodlights before, during or after the installation when needed to further
reduce lighting trespass, glare and light pollution. Flood lights shall not be
aimed at residential property, which property shall be construed to mean that
property which contains one or more residential uses and is occupied by either
the owner of the property or the renter or lessee of the property.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1291.jpg]
 
      (3)   All flood lamps emitting 1,000 or more lumens shall be aimed at
least 60 degrees down from horizontal or shielded such that the main beam from
the light source is not visible from adjacent properties or the public street
right-of-way.
      (4)   All wall pack fixtures shall be full cutoff fixtures.
      (5)   All fixtures installed for the purpose of illuminating public or
private streets shall be full cut-off and shall comply with the standards of
this section.
      (6)   The lighting plan shall demonstrate a consideration for reduced
energy consumption through the selection of energy efficient fixtures.
      (7)   With the exception of essential all-night security lighting, the
plan shall demonstrate lighting reduction procedures, implemented using timers
or other methods (such as fixtures that automatically change wattage output).
The lighting reduction shall be active between approximately 12:00 midnight and
dawn. For 24-hr commercial activities, this requirement may be adjusted by
approval of the Town Council.
      (8)   Hazardous or emergency situational lighting (lighting for emergency
vehicles, or lighting temporarily set up for emergencies shall be exempt.
   (E)   Lighting in outdoor areas (residential and non-residential).
      (1)   (a)   Other than flood lights and flood lamps, all outdoor area and
parking lot lighting fixtures of more than 2,000 lumens shall be full cutoff
fixtures, or comply with division (E)(4) below. Any street lighting located in
areas considered as "steep slope" as defined in the town's Steep Slope
Ordinance, shall be full cutoff fixtures.
         (b)   The mounting height of all pole mounted outdoor lighting, except
outdoor sports field lighting and outdoor performance area lighting shall not
exceed 15 feet above finished grade, unless approved by the Town Council as
having no adverse effect.
         (c)   Dusk-to-dawn open bottom security lights, even if privately
owned, shall be fully shielded so as to provide a full cutoff lighting
distribution.
         (d)   Security lighting for open parking facilities: For lighted
parking lots the minimum light level shall be no less than 0.2 footcandles. The
minimum light level requirements vary depending on the activity classification.
The specified minimum FC value above 0.2 FC as outlined in the following table
means that the lowest light level point or location in the parking lot must not
exceed the minimum stated FC value in the table (i.e. 0.9 FC for large shopping
centers). An average to minimum uniformity ratio of 4:1 means that the average
FC to minimum FC ratio cannot be worse (higher) than 4:1. See the following
table.
Security Light Levels for Open Outdoor Parking Facilities*
Use/Task Maintained Footcandles Uniformity Avg/Min
Security Light Levels for Open Outdoor Parking Facilities*
Use/Task                       Maintained Footcandles        Uniformity Avg/Min
Parking, residential, multi-
family                         Range from 0.2 Min to 0.6 Min 4:1
(1) Low to medium vehicular/
pedestrian activity
Parking, industrial/
commercial/ Institutional/
municipal High activity, i.e.  0.9 Min                       4:1
large shopping centers/fast
food facilities, major
athletic/civic cultural events
Medium/low activity, i.e.
community shopping, office
parks, hospitals, commuter
lots, cultural/civic/
recreational events,           Range from 0.2 Min to 0.7 Min 4:1
residential neighborhood
shopping, industrial employee
parking, schools, church
parking
* Source: IESNA 8th Edition Lighting Handbook; Modification: Medium and Low
Activity Level recommendations have been combined.
Notes:
1.   Illumination levels are horizontal on the task, e.g. pavement or area
surface.
2.   Uniformity ratios dictate that average illuminance values shall not exceed
minimum values by more than the product of the minimum value and the specified
ratio. For example, for commercial parking medium/low activity, the average
footcandles shall not be in excess of 2.8 (0.7 x 4).
3.   A low/medium activity can be reclassified upward when appropriate and only
with town Planning Department approval.
4.   Examples of lighting measurements taken during the development of this
chapter are provided in the appendix.
 
      (2)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Non-cutoff decorative post-mounted fixtures may be used but must
be equipped with a solid top and an internal polished aluminum top reflector
shield to direct the light downward or meet the cutoff classification. Mounting
heights of 18 feet or less above ground are allowed when the maximum initial
lumens generated by each fixture does not exceed 9,500 initial lamp lumens.
            1.   All metal halide, mercury vapor, fluorescent, induction, white
high pressure sodium and color improved high pressure sodium lamps used in non-
cutoff fixtures shall be coated with an internal white frosting inside the
outer lamp envelope.
            2.   All metal halide solid-top decorative post fixtures equipped
with a medium base socket must use an internal refractive lens, a diffusing
panel (lens) or a wide-body refractive globe as described in §
154.005.
         (b)   Temporary lighting for special events of short duration.
Typically these are low wattage or low voltage applications for public
festivals, celebrations and the observance of holidays, carnivals and
celebrations. Portable (non-permanent) internally-illuminated signs come under
this classification and, as such, can be used for up to 30 days only.
         (c)   Airport lighting controlled by the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA).
         (d)   Lighting of the United States of America and state flags and
other flags or insignia of any governmental, non-profit or business
organization.
   (F)   Lighting for vehicular canopies. Areas under a vehicular canopy shall
have an average maximum horizontal illuminance of 24 maintained footcandles
(FC). Areas outside the vehicular canopy shall be regulated by the standards of
division (E) above. Lighting under vehicular canopies shall be designed so as
not to create glare off-site. Acceptable methods include one or both of the
following: Recessed fixture incorporating a lens cover that is either recessed
or flush with the bottom surface (ceiling) of the vehicular canopy that
provides a full cutoff or fully-shielded light distribution. Surface mounted
fixture incorporating a flat glass that provides a full cutoff or fully-
shielded light distribution.
   (G)   Outdoor sports field /outdoor performance area lighting.
      (1)   The mounting height of outdoor sports field and outdoor performance
area lighting fixtures shall not exceed 80 feet from finished grade unless
approved by the town Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   All outdoor sports field and outdoor performance area lighting
fixtures shall be equipped with a glare control package (louvers, shields, or
similar devices).
      (3)   The fixtures must be aimed so that their beams are directed and
fall within the primary playing or performance area. The maximum light level
shall be one-half maintained footcandles at any property line in a residential
district, or on a lot occupied by a dwelling congregate care or congregate
living structure.
      (4)   Non-conforming fixtures lighting sports fields may be replaced or
otherwise changed if no more than 30% of the existing non-conforming fixtures
are replaced or changed. However, if more than 30% of the existing non-
conforming fixtures are replaced, then all the fixtures must be brought into
compliance with the requirements of these lighting standards.
      (5)   The hours of operation for the lighting system for any game or
event shall not exceed one hour after the end of the event.
   (H)   Natural recreation areas. These locations are intrinsically dark
landscapes at night. These areas include state and national parks, conservation
areas, natural recreation areas and areas adjacent to optical astronomical
observatories. These places are used for camping and the like, where a
naturally dark environment is desired and are designated by the town.
      (1)   Light reduction procedures begin at approximately 12:00 midnight
with limited essential safety and security lighting.
      (2)   All fixtures shall be full cut-off.
   (I)   Lighting of outdoor display areas. The following provisions apply to
outdoor display areas except for car dealership parking lots, as specified in
division (I)(4) below.
      (1)   Parking lot outdoor areas shall be illuminated in accordance with
the requirements for division (f) above. Outdoor display areas shall have a
maximum average maintained illuminance of 24 maintained footcandles.
      (2)   All light fixtures shall meet the IESNA definition of cutoff
fixtures. Forward throw fixtures (type IV light distribution, as defined by the
IESNA) are required within 25 feet of any public street right-of-way.
Alternatively, directional fixtures (such as floodlights) may be used provided
they shall be aimed in accordance with divisions (D)(2) and (3) above.
      (3)   The mounting height of outdoor display area fixtures shall not
exceed 15 feet above finished grade.
      (4)   For car dealership parking lots, the following provisions shall
apply.
         (a)   Full cutoff fixtures shall be used.
         (b)   Mounting heights: Up to a maximum of 15 plus two-foot raised
base for parking areas as needed.
         (c)   Lighting at the plane defined by the row of car bumpers closest
to the street right-of-way may not exceed a maximum average maintained
illuminance of 24 footcandles.
         (d)   Lighting in the non-display area of the parking lot after hours
shall be no higher than seven FC average maintained.
      (5)   The use of klieg lights or search lights for the purpose of
advertising sales or grand openings shall not be allowed.
   (J)   Lighting of buildings.
      (1)   Lighting fixtures shall be selected, located, aimed and shielded so
that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the building facade,
plantings and other intended site features, and away from adjoining properties
and the public street right-of-way.
      (2)   Illumination on any vertical surface or angular roof shall not
exceed five FC average maintained.
      (3)   To the extent practical and where possible, lighting fixtures shall
be directed downward rather than upward.
      (4)   When upward aiming is used, placement of low wattage fixtures with
shields (as needed) close to the building to graze the facade is required to
minimize reflected light from windows and other surfaces. The Planning
Department can waive this requirement in rare and unusual cases if it is
demonstrated that the physical location of light fixtures close to the building
to accomplish this design is not possible.
   (K)   Permanent sign and billboard lighting.
      (1)   Lighting fixtures illuminating signs and billboards shall be aimed
and shielded so that direct illumination is focused exclusively on the sign,
Externally lighted signs shall be lighted from the top of the sign downward.
The Planning Department can waive this requirement in rare and unusual cases if
it is demonstrated that the physical location of light fixtures for top down
aiming is not possible. The maximum watts permitted to illuminate a sign are
determined by multiplying the sign face area by two watts per square foot. For
additional guidance, see the sign section of the town Zoning Ordinance.
Exception: signs less than seven feet (two meters) in height above grade may be
illuminated by ground mounted uplighting not exceeding 100 lamp watts per sign
face.
      (2)   Light-Emitting Diode (LED) billboards and/or other permanent signs
shall be prohibited. Exception: Those signs which are allowed by §
154.112(G) below. Note: Refer to division (E)(5)(b) above regarding portable
internally illuminated signs.
   (L)   Holiday/festive lighting. Holiday/festive lighting is allowed provided
it complies with the definition outlined in section (c). The connection of
multiple holidays and/or festive events over a number of weeks and/or months is
not permitted. Lamps below seven watts are exempt and have no restrictions on
use.
   (M)   Walkways, bikewavs and parks (sections to be lighted).
      (1)   General. The walkway, pathway or ground areas that are to be
lighted shall be illuminated to a level of at least 0.2 and no more than one-
half average horizontal maintained footcandles.
      (2)   Driveway lighting. Non-cutoff decorative or non-decorative post
lighting shall be allowed when located at the end of a residential driveway.
Typically this type of driveway light is installed at the end of the drive for
purposes of providing security to the residents of the dwelling. However, the
driveway light shall not use a light bulb that uses energy at a rate higher
than 60 watts.
   (N)   Landscape lighting. All landscape and residential facade lighting
systems shall employ shielded directional luminaires not to exceed 40 lamp
watts. The luminaires shall be aimed such that the light source cannot be seen
from any reasonable viewing point on an adjacent property.
   (O)   Permitting and approval process. A permit shall be required for work
involving outdoor lighting for commercial, office, industrial and institutional
projects with a gross floor area of more than 5,000 square feet, residential
projects of more than six units consisting of non-single-family detached
dwellings, all major subdivisions, all vehicular canopies, and all outdoor
display areas.
      (1)   The applicant for a permit shall submit the appropriate supporting
documentation at the time the application is submitted for review. The
documentation submitted shall include, but not be limited to the following, all
or part of which may be part of, or in addition to, the information required
elsewhere in this chapter, and by the policies and procedures established by
the town:
         (a)   A lighting plan to scale that shows a point-by-point footcandle
array on a 10 feet by 10 feet grid in a printout format indicating the location
and aiming of illuminating devices. The printout shall include a summary table
to indicate compliance with the average maintained and minimum footcandles and
average to minimum uniformity ratios. FC point values in the appropriate areas
to determine light trespass compliance is also required. The lighting plan
shall include as a minimum an arrangement of the subject outdoor lighting, a
fixture schedule detailing the mounting height and technique, fixture type,
bulb type and wattage, controls, lenses and the like. The lighting plan shall
demonstrate a consideration for reduced energy consumption through the
selection of energy efficient fixtures as well as the implementation of the
stated lighting practices as outlined throughout this chapter; and
         (b)   A point-by-point photometric footcandle array created from
industry recognized lighting software systems and/or manual calculations
created by a professional engineer, lighting certified professional, vendor or
an individual that possesses the skills to perform the calculations. Methods
used for calculating the lighting footcandle levels shall be indicated in the
application documentation. The footcandle array shall be provided in a hard
copy printed format indicating the location and aiming of all applicable
illuminating devices covered under the subject application based on the site
and/or building arrangement plan complete with consideration of adjoining
properties and roadways. Description of the illuminating devices, fixtures,
lamps, supports, reflectors, poles, raised foundations and other devices
(including but not limited to manufacturers or electric utility catalog
specification sheets and/or drawings, and photometric report indicating fixture
classification [cutoff fixture, wall pack, Hood light and the like]).
      (2)   Projects that are not required to submit items identified in this
division (O) are still subject to comply with the provisions of this chapter
and may be required to provide this information upon request.
      (3)   The Town Zoning Administrator or his or her designee may modify
and/or waive any part(s) of the above referenced permit requirements, provided
the applicant can otherwise demonstrate compliance with this code. Note: An
example of this provision might be where a contractor or utility repeatedly
installs the same lighting equipment on different projects in the town. One
submittal containing the specification sheets of a particular group of fixtures
may be sufficient for the Planning Department to modify the project requirement
and require that only the other provisions of the ordinance be met since the
fixture specification provisions have already been met. This modification would
conserve town personnel and lighting supplier/installer resources.
   (P)   Nonconformities.
      (1)   Any lighting fixture lawfully in place or approved by the town
prior to the adoption of this chapter shall be exempt from these requirements.
         (a)   At the time that a non-conforming fixture is replaced, moved,
upgraded or otherwise changed, the fixture must be brought into compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Any expansion of, or addition to, an existing lighting system
must conform to the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Routine maintenance, including changing the lamp, ballast, starter,
photo control, lens and other required components, is permitted for all
existing fixtures. When the fixture housing is changed, the fixture must come
into compliance.
      (3)   (a)   Vehicular canopies do not qualify for the exemption for non-
conforming structures described in division (P)(1) above and shall have five
years from the adoption date of this chapter to bring the outdoor lighting into
compliance. If a major renovation of the canopy (25% or more of the existing
light fixtures) occurs at this facility prior to the expiration of the five-
year term, the earlier date will apply regarding compliance.
         (b)   Property owners that install lighting fixtures after the
effective date of this chapter and are found to be in non-compliance shall
receive written notification according to this chapter.
      (4)   See division (G)(4) above for nonconformity provisions for outdoor
sports fields and performance areas.
   (Q)   Effective date. The regulations of this section shall become effective
on the date specified by the Town Council upon adoption.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1112, passed - -)
§ 154.108 STREET EDGE.
   All newly constructed roads shall be provided with a defined street edge.
The provision of defined street edges shall help delineate areas that are
appropriate for vehicular traffic, increase the aesthetic appeal of public
spaces within the town, and help manage and control storm water runoff from
areas of impervious surface. Different types of streets shall dictate the
appropriate manner in which to define the street's edge.
   (A)   Standard curb and gutter.
      (1)   Curb and gutter systems shall be constructed according to the State
Department of Transportation's Division of Highways' standards. The following
shall be typical cross sections of standard curb and gutter systems and valley
gutter systems:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1294.jpg]
 
      (2)   The standard curb and gutter system or the valley gutter system
shall be used to convey storm water runoff. Typically this type of storm water
runoff control is used to collect and convey the runoff to a centralized (end
of pipe) treatment facility. If a treatment facility is not required and is not
installed, then the runoff shall be released from the conveyance mechanism in a
non-erosive manner. The standard or valley system shall also serve the purpose
of effectively defining the street's edge and separating, both horizontally and
vertically, the vehicular traffic from any pedestrian activity.
   (B)   Standard or valley curb and gutter systems and bio-retention
facilities.
      (1)   More development is incorporating storm water management techniques
within the site design of a project. This is typically known as an aspect of
low impact development. Not to be construed as an exhaustive list, bio-
retention cells, grassed swales, rain gardens and storm water wet lands are all
facilities that are designed to treat storm water on site with little or no
concrete or metal conveyance (micromanagement). These techniques are typically
viewed as positive due to the fact that the systems mitigate large quantities
of water flowing at high velocities, they generally can treat the runoff for
pollutants, and typically aid in groundwater recharge. To facilitate the use of
these systems, standard curb and gutters or valley gutters may be used by
incorporating curb cuts. In this fashion the road's edge is defined and storm
water is effectively conveyed, but for short distances to infiltration aiding
systems. While this street edge technique does provide vertical separation of
vehicular traffic from pedestrian activity, the larger separation comes from
the implementation of the storm water control system.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1297.jpg]
 
      (2)   Inlets to the storm water control system shall be provided with
energy dissipaters in order to prevent erosion from entering waters. Inlets
shall also be spaced at least every 12 feet on center and shall be a minimum of
12 inches wide. Other than these curb cuts, the curb and gutter system shall be
designed and constructed according to division (A) above. This division (B)
shall not be construed to offer a comprehensive guide on the construction of
the storm water systems, rather the curb adjacent to the system.
   (C)   Flat curb.
      (1)   This method of street edge definition includes the curb, but not
the gutter. Typically, this type of curb is used in conjunction with the
micromanagement storm water systems discussed in division (B) above as it
facilitates sheet flow into the management system. However, flat curb systems
may be utilized in other applications, such as alleyways, as well as other
appropriate applications. The flat curb system defines the street's edge,
offers minor traffic calming capabilities, allows storm water to enter
retention facilities as sheet flow, and can offer minor separation of
pedestrians from vehicles. The following is an example of a flat curb system:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1300.jpg]
 
      (2)   It is highly recommended that the flat curbs be constructed of
permeable materials, such as permeable pavers, permeable concrete, or permeable
asphalt. These flat curb areas will not be heavily used and so these types of
permeable materials will remain structurally sound for a considerable time.
   (D)   Streets with on-street parking.
      (1)   For streets that are provided with on-street parking, an edge
defining mechanism shall be installed on the moving vehicular traffic side of
the parking spaces. The edge defining mechanism shall be a flat curb, a wide
painted stripe or some other effective means. The following diagram shall
illustrate the placement of the edge definition:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1303.jpg]
 
      (2)   In most cases a similar curb or edging system will be provided on
the opposite side of the parking space as well, but for the purposes of this
division (D), the edge definition along the street side of the parking places
shall be required.
   (E)   Streets with bike lanes.
      (1)   When a street is constructed and the street incorporates the
provision of a bicycle lane, then the bicycle lane may serve as the street edge
defining mechanism. The street edge may be comprised of the typical white line
that delineates the bicycle lane, a different colored material as the bicycle
lane, or a combination of both. For the purposes of this division (E) the
street edge shall be deemed defined by the bicycle lane; however, another edge
defining mechanism may be used on the non-vehicular side of the bicycle lane.
The following is an example of a street whose edge is defined by a bicycle
lane:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d67187f97a6acb0fef45d050f5466e7686e36cce/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1306.jpg]
 
      (2)   While it is desirable to incorporate permeable, porous and/or
recycled materials into traditionally impervious surfaces, the material chosen
to construct a bicycle lane should be done in a manner that weighs the texture
of the surface (as it relates to a bicyclist's riding experience) against the
desired environmental benefit of the material.
   (F)   Other edge defining techniques. It is recognized that other methods of
supplying an adequate road edge exist and may be more appropriate for a given
project than those listed above. As such, proposed alternative approaches shall
be considered on a case by case basis.
   (G)   Preliminary meeting. If a proposed development project is governed by
this section, then a clear description and/or depiction of the proposed street
edge defining method shall accompany the applicant's first application for
development approval. Upon review of the application, the town Zoning
Administrator or Subdivision Administrator shall forward the application to the
Town Manager and Public Works Director for comments specifically relating to
the proposed method of street edge definition. The approved street edge
defining method shall be a part of the approved development plan and shall be
binding as such.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1113, passed - -)
§ 154.109 PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The town has a desire to promote pedestrian activity within
its territorial limits. This has been exemplified through the town's efforts in
creating a pedestrian plan which aims to increase what can be called the
walkability of the area. Promoting pedestrian activity can help stimulate
economic activity, encourage a healthier citizenry, reduce vehicular congestion
along roadways, and help towards decreasing the town's carbon footprint.
   (B)   General provisions. As such, certain new developments shall aid in the
promotion of pedestrian activity by providing pedestrian circulation systems.
The following provisions shall apply to any pedestrian facilities required by
division (C)(1) through (4) below.
      (1)   Standard. All newly constructed pedestrian circulation systems
shall be compliant with the "Americans with Disabilities Act" (ADA) and all
applicable State Department of Transportation standards. External pedestrian
circulation facilities shall be constructed to line up as closely as possible
to any existing neighboring facilities. The width of any external pedestrian
circulation facilities shall match that of any existing neighboring facilities
as well; however, in no case may a new pedestrian circulation facility be less
than four feet wide.
      (2)   Approval. The town's Zoning Administrator, Council or Board
responsible for the final approval of the proposed development project shall be
responsible for approving, disapproving or approving with modifications the
proposed pedestrian circulation plan.
      (3)   Plan submittal. All development proposals that are regulated by
this section shall be required to submit a pedestrian circulation plan. The
plan required by this section shall be in combination with the first
application submittal required by the town for approval for the applicable
development proposal. The plan shall show the extent of the project's proposed
internal pedestrian circulation system and external pedestrian circulation
system.
      (4)   Fee in lieu of. At the discretion of the authorizing administrator,
council, or board, a fee may be paid by the party that is financially
responsible for a proposed development project instead of installing external
pedestrian circulation systems. The fee shall be determined by first
determining the length of required pedestrian systems. Then the volume of
concrete that would normally be required to complete the required pedestrian
facility shall be computed based on the previously determined length. The
current average price of concrete per cubic yard shall be used to determine the
cost of the total amount of concrete for the normally required pedestrian
facility. That figure shall be increased by 80%. If the town prompted the
payment of a fee in lieu of constructing the required external pedestrian
circulation system, then the previously calculated figure shall be the amount
of the fee in lieu of. If the payment of the fee in lieu of pedestrian
circulation construction is at the sole request of the project applicant, then
the previously calculated fee amount shall be doubled. The town shall put the
paid fee into an account set aside for pedestrian facility development and
shall only use the moneys for the construction of new pedestrian facilities or
the upgrading of existing pedestrian facilities.
   (C)   Specific provisions.
      (1)   New subdivisions.
         (a)   Applicability. This division (C)(1) shall apply to any new minor
subdivision, major subdivision, cluster subdivision, planned unit development,
and special subdivision that incorporates condominiums and/or townhouses as
defined in §
153.27(C) through (F).
         (b)   Internal circulation. All development projects to which this
division (C)(1) applies shall provide pedestrian facilities that will be
accessible to areas of relatively high densities of dwelling units, any
commercial components of the development, and any designated open spaces. There
shall be no prescribed method of providing adequate pedestrian circulation;
however, the two most common methods are the provision of a standard sidewalk
system or the provision of off-street pedestrian trails.
         (c)   External circulation. All development projects to which this
division (C)(1) apply shall provide pedestrian facilities along the portions of
the property that are adjacent to the access granting public street right-of-
way, whether the street is owned by the State Department of Transportation or
the town.
      (2)   New commercial structures.
         (a)   Applicability. This division (C)(2) shall apply to any newly
constructed commercial structure.
         (b)   Internal circulation. If a commercial structure is proposed to
be located 35 or more feet from the proposed external pedestrian circulation
system (or if a fee in lieu of is paid, the distance shall be measured to the
edge of the street right-of-way), then internal pedestrian facilities shall be
provided. These facilities shall safely and conveniently guide pedestrians
through any parking lot and/or front yard areas to the main entrances of any
commercial spaces.
         (c)   External circulation. All development projects to which this
division (C)(2) apply shall provide pedestrian facilities along the portions of
the property that are adjacent to the access granting public street right-of-
way, whether the street is owned by the State Department of Transportation or
the town.
      (3)   Remodeled commercial structures.
         (a)   Applicability. This division (C)(3) shall apply to any existing
commercial structure and/or property that is remodeled, altered, repaired or
added to such that the cost of the work is equal to or greater than 50% of the
assessed tax value of the property prior to the work being performed.
         (b)   Internal circulation. If a commercial structure is located 35 or
more feet from any existing external pedestrian circulation system (or if no
external pedestrian circulation system exists and a fee in lieu of is paid, the
distance shall be measured to the edge of the street right-of-way), then
internal pedestrian facilities shall be provided. These facilities shall safely
and conveniently guide pedestrians through any parking lot and/or front yard
areas from the adjacent street right-of-way to the main entrances of any
commercial spaces.
         (c)   External circulation. All development projects to which this
division (C)(3) apply shall provide pedestrian facilities along the portions of
the property that are adjacent to the access granting public street right-of-
way, whether the street is owned by the State Department of Transportation or
the town. Given the fact that the structures and properties to which this
division (C)(3) applies are existing; it is recognized that there may arise
unusual hardships in implementing the exact standards contained herein. If an
existing pedestrian facility is located on the opposite side of the access
granting public street right-of-way as the subject commercial structure and the
subject property's topography or some other characteristic of the property
renders the construction of a new external pedestrian facility so infeasible as
to pose a hardship upon the applicant, then the applicant may have an
additional option to that provided in division (C)(4) below. In this scenario
the applicant may provide a safe and adequate street crossing from the existing
sidewalk opposite the street right-of-way to a point within 100 feet of the
subject commercial structure. The Town Public Works Director shall have the
authority to utilize discretion in approving the application of this part and
in approving proposed street crossings. In approving the proposals, the Public
Works Director shall take into account the Town Manager and Planner's comments.
      (4)   Streets and utilities.
         (a)   Applicability. This division (C)(4) shall apply to street and/or
utility repair work that: destroys existing pedestrian circulation facilities;
widens the existing right-of-way width by 15% or more; or creates a new street.
         (b)   Destruction of existing pedestrian circulation facilities. In
the event that the destruction of an existing pedestrian circulation facility
occurs as a result of work performed for the maintenance, repair or
construction of a portion of a street or utility infrastructure, the group or
person responsible for the work shall be responsible for restoring the
pedestrian circulation facility. If the existing facility was not ADA compliant
before the maintenance, repair or construction, then the restoration shall
render the facility ADA compliant.
         (c)   New and expanded rights-of-way. Pedestrian circulation
facilities required by division (C)(4)(a) above shall be considered external
pedestrian circulation facilities. These facilities shall be required along all
portions of the street that are new or whose right-of-way has been expanded by
15% or more.
      (5)   Accessibility during construction. During the construction and/or
development of any proposed project, all existing external pedestrian
facilities shall remain accessible to pedestrians. In no case shall a portion
of an existing external pedestrian facility be blocked, destroyed, damaged or
otherwise made to be in a state of disrepair so as to render the pedestrian
facility inadequate for the safe mobility of persons with restricted movement
capabilities.
         (a)   Applicability. This division (C)(5) shall apply to all
developments to which divisions (C)(1), (2), (3) and (4) above apply.
         (b)   General regulations. Portions of an external pedestrian facility
may be blocked or in some other way rendered inadequate for the safe mobility
of persons with restricted movement capabilities for a period of time not to
exceed 24 hours, if the interruption to the pedestrian facility is associated
with development and work is being performed to the area containing the
pedestrian facility the entirety of the interruption. One non-exhaustive
example of such a circumstance is the cutting away of the pedestrian facility,
installing the forms for an access drive to a property, pouring the cement into
the forms, installing the asphalt in the driveway, and letting the wet cement
set and the asphalt dry all in one day of work. If the similar work is being
performed, but will take longer than 24 hours before the pedestrian facility is
rendered adequate again, then a pedestrian detour shall be provided that
adequately provides for the safe mobility of persons with restricted movement
capabilities or some other approved alternate ramp or path shall be provided
that safely bypasses the pedestrian facility interruption.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1114, passed - -)
§ 154.110 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided on
every lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established in all
districts except the Central Business District.
   (B)   The number of parking spaces provided shall be at least as great as
the number specified below for various uses. When application of the provision
results in a fractional space requirement, the next larger requirement shall
prevail.
   (C)   Each lot abutting a major thoroughfare, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, shall be provided with vehicular access thereto and shall be
provided with adequate space for turning so that no vehicle shall be required
to back into the street.
   (D)   A parking space shall consist of an area not less than ten feet by 20
feet, plus the necessary access space unless otherwise authorized by the Board
of Adjustment.
      (1)   Minimum parking requirements. The required number of off-street
parking spaces specified below for each use shall be provided.
Residential Uses Required Parking
Residential Uses                       Required Parking
Mobile home                            Two spaces for each mobile home
Mobil home parks                       Two spaces for each mobile home space
Residential dwellings; single- family  Two spaces for each dwelling unit
and two-family
Residential dwellings; multi- family   Two spaces for each dwelling unit
and residential PUDs
Public and Semi-Public Uses            Required Parking
                                       One space for each two beds, plus one
Hospitals and clinics                  space for each staff or visiting doctor,
                                       plus one space for each two employees on
                                       shift or great employment
Funeral parlors                        One space for each four seats in chapel
                                       or parlor
Church, religious institutions and     One space for each four seats in the
places of assembly                     principal assembly room
                                       Two spaces for every tennis, squash or
                                       racquetball court; skating rinks, and
Recreational facilities                bowling alleys, one space per 200 square
                                       feet; swimming pool, one space per 140
                                       square feet, health exercise facility,
                                       one space per 50 square feet
Golf or country clubs                  Two spaces per tee
Athletic fields                        Ten spaces per field
                                       One space per 50 square feet; billiard
Pitch and putt courses                 or pool hall, two spaces per table;
                                       shooting ranges, one space per target
                                       area
Other places of recreation and         One space for each 200 square feet of
assembly, without fixed seats          gross floor area
Schools, elementary and middle         One space for each classroom and
                                       administrative office
                                       One space for each classroom and
                                       administrative office, plus one space
Schools, senior high                   for each 20 seats or one space for each
                                       400 square feet of area used for public
                                       assembly
Public buildings                       One space for each 200 square fee of
                                       gross floor area
                                       One space for each six patient beds,
Sanitariums, rest and convalescent     plus one space for each staff or
homes for the aged and similar         visiting doctor, plus one space for each
institutions                           two employees on shift of greatest
                                       employment
Business Uses                          Required Parking
Doctors' and dentists' offices         Five spaces per doctor or dentist
Professional and business offices      One space for each 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Banks and other financial institutions One space for each 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Retail stores, businesses, shops and   One space for each 200 square feet of
commercial services of all kinds       gross floor area
Car sales, house and truck trailer     Four spaces for each salesperson, plus
sales, outdoor equipment and machinery one space for each two employees
sales, commercial nurseries
Hotels                                 One space for each two rooms, plus one
                                       additional space for each five employees
Motels, tourist homes and tourist      One space for each accommodation, plus
courts, and rooming houses             two additional spaces for employees
                                       Two spaces for each gas pump, plus three
Service stations                       spaces for each grease rack or similar
                                       facility
Shopping centers                       One parking space for each 200 square
                                       feet of gross floor area
Restaurants, drive-in                  One parking space for each 200 square
                                       feet of gross floor area
Restaurants, indoor                    One parking space for each 200 square
                                       feet of gross floor area
Day nursery and private kindergartens  One space for each staff member plus one
                                       space for each five students
Clubs and lodges                       One space for each three members
Vocational schools                     One space for each three students
Business and special schools           One space for each three students
Animal hospitals and veterinarian      One parking space for each 200 square
clinics                                feet of gross floor area
Kennels                                One space for each four pens
Motor vehicle maintenance and repair   Three spaces for each service bay and
                                       mechanic
Electronic gaming locations            One space for each electronic gaming
                                       terminal
Indoor theaters                        One space for each four seats
                                       One space for each employee on shift of
Parcel delivery services               maximum employment, plus one space for
                                       each 800 square feet of gross floor area
Wholesale and Industrial Uses          Required Parking
                                       One space for each two employees at
Wholesale and industrial uses          maximum employment on a single shift,
                                       plus one space for each company vehicle
                                       operating on the premises
 
      (2)   Location on other property. If the required automobile parking
spaces cannot reasonably be provided on the same lot on which the principal use
is conducted, the spaces may be provided on other off-street property, provided
the property is zoned accordingly and lies within 400 feet of an entrance to
the principal use. The automobile parking space shall be associated with the
principal use and shall not thereafter be reduced or encroached upon in any
manner.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1115, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-21-2013)
§ 154.111 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING SPACE.
   (A)   Every lot on which a business, trade or industry use is hereafter
established, shall provide space as indicated herein for the loading and
unloading of vehicles off the street.
   (B)   The space shall have access to a street or alley. For the purpose of
this section, an off-street loading space shall have minimum dimensions of 12
feet by 40 feet and an overhead clearance of 14 feet in height above the alley
or street grade.
      (1)   Retail business: One space for each 5,000 square feet of gross
floor area.
      (2)   Wholesale and industrial: One space for each 10,000 square feet of
gross floor area.
      (3)   Truck terminals: Sufficient space to accommodate the maximum number
of trucks to be stored or to be loading or unloading at their terminal at any
one time.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1116, passed - -)
§ 154.112 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose of sign regulations.
      (1)   It shall be the purpose of this subchapter to promote the safety,
health, peace, dignity and general welfare of the people and the town in a
manner consistent with the nature beauty of the area through the regulation of
the posting, displaying, erection, use, maintenance of signs.
      (2)   Further, it is recognized that the standards and regulations for
signs will address the following purposes:
         (a)   Provide an improved environmental setting and community
appearance, which is vital for the economic well being of the town;
         (b)   Create a more productive and professional business environment;
         (c)   Provide signs, which are in scale and appropriate to the planned
character and development in each zoning district;
         (d)   Promote traffic safety and prevent hazard or nuisance conditions
for vehicle or pedestrian traffic;
         (e)   Prevent the visual clutter of signage, which districts from
business and conflicts with legitimate informational signage and signage which
is essential for public health and safety;
         (f)   Protect and enhance the value of properties within the town; and
         (g)   Promote the public safety and general welfare of the town.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   No sign of any type or any part thereof shall be erected, painted,
repainted, posted, reposted, placed, replaces or hung in any zoning district
except in compliance with these regulations.
      (2)   No sign shall be placed on any lot without the permission of either
the owner or occupant of the premises on the lot. Signs placed in violation of
this rule may be removed by the owner, the occupant or the Town of Columbus.
See also G.S. § 14-145, making unlawful posting of advertisements on the
property of another without first obtaining the written consent of such owner
thereof.
      (3)   Each application for a sign permit shall be made in writing and
shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
         (a)   A drawing approximately to scale showing the design of the sign,
including dimensions, methods of attachment or support, source of illumination
and showing the relationship to any building or structure to which it is or is
proposed to be installed or affixed; and
         (b)   A plot plan approximately to scale indicating the location of
the sign relative to property lines, easements, streets, sidewalks and other
signs.
      (4)   Sign permit applications shall be submitted to and approved by the
Zoning Administrator prior to a permit being issued. A record of the
application, plans and the actions taken thereon shall be kept in the office of
the town. The Town Council may establish a fee schedule for all sign permits
issued in accordance with this chapter.
      (5)   Sign area. The area of a sign shall be considered to be that of the
smallest rectangular, circular, or elliptical figure which encompasses all
lettering, wording, design or symbols, together with any background on which
the sign is located. Any cutouts or extensions shall be included in the area of
a sign, but supports and bracing which are not intended as part of the sign
shall be excluded. In the case of a multi-faced sign, the area of the sign
shall be considered to include all faces visible from one direction.
      (6)   Wall signs shall not project higher than the eave or parapet of the
building where mounted.
   (C)   Signs allowed without a permit. The following types of signs are
allowed in all zoning districts, unless specifically limited herein, and do not
require a sign permit:
      (1)   Signs unlighted and bearing only property numbers, post box
numbers, and the name of the owner or occupant of the premises. These signs
shall not exceed two square feet in area per dwelling. If more than one sign or
nameplate is required, the total allowable sign area shall not exceed eight
square feet;
      (2)   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
      (3)   Holiday decorations in season;
      (4)   Legal notices and warnings, regulatory, informational or
directional signs erected by any public agency or utility;
      (5)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings,
including signs, which denote only the building name, date of erection or
street numbers; and
      (6)   The following signs, including portable or mobile signs on wheels,
but such signs shall not be closer than five feet from the edge of any street
pavement or any other property line:
         (a)   On a property which is offered for lease, rent or sale during
the period which property is so offered:
            1.   One unilluminated sign per street frontage. The maximum size
of the signs shall be as follows:
               a.   In all residential districts, 12 square feet; and
               b.   In all other districts, the signs shall be limited to one
square foot of area for each five lineal feet of advertised property which
abuts a public street, provided, however, no such sign shall exceed 128 square
feet in area.
            2.   One additional unilluminated sign per street frontage only on
those days the property is available for inspection (i.e., days when an open
house is being conducted on the premises). No such sign shall exceed six square
feet in area.
         (b)   One unilluminated sign may be erected on a site during the
period of construction or reconstruction of a building or other similar
project. The sign shall be removed no more than two days after the construction
work has been completed. The maximum size of the sign shall be follows:
            1.   In residential districts, 32 square feet.
            2.   In all other districts, 64 square feet or one square foot of
sign area for each five lineal feet of property abutting a public street,
whichever is greater. In no instance, however, shall any such sign exceed 128
square feet in area.
         (c)   Banners, pennants, ribbons, balloons, posters, streamers may be
displayed for a period of not more than 30 days in any one calendar year on the
occasion of the opening of a new business.
         (d)   Signs painted or displayed on the interior or exterior of
commercial building windows, provided, however, the signs shall not exceed 25%
of the total window area.
         (e)   Signs by individual for profit businesses may be placed on their
premises in the Central Business District and the Highway Commercial District
for an aggregate period not to exceed 30 days in a calendar year. There shall
not be more than one such sign at any time and such sign shall not exceed six
square feet in area.
         (f)   One unilluminated sign may be displayed on a property where a
local public event, non-commercial in its primary purpose, is to take place,
and a maximum of three other unilluminated signs may be placed by the person
conducting such event at other locations within the town (with permission of
the property owner or occupant), on the following conditions:
            1.   Signs shall be placed out not more than two weeks in advance
of the local public event and must be removed not more than two days after the
completion of the event.
            2.   The maximum size of the signs shall be 30 square feet in area
on the property where the event will occur and six square feet in area for
signs on other properties.
         (g)   Unilluminated signs may be posted during the period beginning on
the 30th day before the beginning date of "one-stop" early voting under G.S. §
163-166.40 and ending on the 10th day after the primary or election day.
         (h)   One unilluminated sign may be displayed on a property where a
yard sale, garage sale or estate sale signs is being conducted, and a maximum
of three other unilluminated signs may be placed by the person conducting such
sale at other locations within the town (with permission of the property owner
or occupant), on the following conditions:
            1.   Signs shall be placed out no earlier than 24 hours before the
sale, and shall be removed no later 12:00 p.m. the day after the sale.
            2.   Each sign shall not exceed three square feet in area.
            3.   Signs placed pursuant to this division (C)(6)(h) shall display
the owner's address.
            4.   Failure to follow the above guidelines or to remove the signs
within the proper time frame shall result in a fine as set forth in the town
fee schedule.
   (D)   Required signs. Every residence, office, retail establishment,
industry or any other structure with a street number assigned to it shall
display the number in such a way as to be easily visible from the street
providing access. The numerals shall be of such size and color as to be easily
recognizable and shall be attached to the wail of the building facing the
street or, if the distance to the street or visibility due to other means makes
this impractical, shall be displayed on a nameplate or number sign placed at
the main entrance of the property, or displayed on a rural mailbox. Property
owners may choose one of the latter methods of display in addition to attaching
numerals to the building. No permit shall be required for these signs.
   (E)   Signs allowed by permit. In addition to the signs allowed under
divisions (C) and (D), above, the following signs shall be allowed, upon
approval of a sign permit, in the following districts:
      (1)   Signs permitted in residential districts.
         (a)   Signs for subdivisions and planned unit developments not
exceeding 32 square feet in area. One sign may be erected at each entrance to
the subdivision, but shall be located on private property and shall not exceed
six feet in height above the ground level, and illumination shall be restricted
to indirect white lighting.
         (b)   Signs for mobile home parks and campgrounds not exceeding 16
square feet in area. One sign may be erected at each main entrance to the
mobile home park or campground but shall be located on private property no
closer than ten feet to any property line. Illumination shall be limited to
indirect white lighting.
         (c)   One sign for multi-family residential developments may be
erected at each major entrance to the property. These signs shall not exceed 32
square feet in area and may be flat mounted against the wall of the building or
freestanding. If freestanding, the signs shall be set back at a minimum of ten
feet from any property line and shall not exceed six feet in height above
ground level. Illumination shall be limited to indirect white lighting.
         (d)   One sign for non-residential uses may be erected on the
premises, provided that the signs do not exceed 32 square feet in area and may
be flat mounted against the wall of a building or freestanding. If
freestanding, the signs shall be set back at a minimum of ten feet from any
property line and shall not exceed six feet in height above ground level.
Illumination shall be limited to indirect white lighting.
         (e)   One sign for each home occupation is permitted, but shall not be
closer than ten feet to any property line or street right-of-way, shall not be
higher than four feet above ground level and shall not exceed four square feet
in area.
         (f)   For properties used for residential purposes, one unilluminated
sign per lot. The sign may be flat mounted against the wall of a building or
freestanding. If freestanding, the sign shall be set back at a minimum of ten
feet from any property line and shall not exceed three feet in height above
ground level. The sign shall not exceed four square feet.
      (2)   Signs permitted in the 1-26 Corridor Overlay Area. One freestanding
sign is permitted for each zoned lot taking access from an arterial or
collector road. Any such freestanding sign(s) shall not exceed 30 feet in
height or 100 square feet in sign area. The 1-26 Corridor Overlay boundaries
for purposes of this sign ordinance are from the concrete right-of- way
monument set at the east intersection of Highway 26 and Highway 108 at the
corner of Spartan Petroleum Company and running east 500 feet on Highway 108 to
a line parallel to the right-of-way of 1-26, and also at the concrete right-of-
way monument set at the west intersection of Highway 26 and Highway 108 at the
corner of the McFarland tract and running west 500 feet oh Highway 108 to a
line parallel to the right-of-way of 1-26.
      (3)   Signs permitted in the Highway Commercial District and Public
Service District.
         (a)    One freestanding sign is permitted for each zoned parcel. Any
such freestanding sign shall not exceed 30 feet in height or 100 square feet in
sign area. Businesses fronting on more than one public street shall be
permitted one freestanding sign for each road frontage;
         (b)   One additional freestanding sign is permitted for businesses
with drive-through windows provided that the sign is facing the drive-through
lane and does not exceed six feet in height or 40 square feet in sign area;
         (c)   Wall signs shall be permitted for each separate business
establishment provided the total allowable sign area for all signs shall not
exceed two square feet for each foot of building wall facing a public street.
The location and number of wall signs is at the option of the owner or tenant,
however, where more than four signs are located on any zoning lot, the fifth
sign, respectively, shall reduce the total allowable sign area by 20%;
         (d)   The total allowable sign area for all signs, including all wall
and freestanding signs, shall not exceed two square feet for each lineal foot
of building wall facing a public street. Sizes of each sign are at the option
of the owner or tenant, but in no case shall a freestanding sign be more than
100 square feet in sign area;
         (e)   One sign per business establishment may be suspended from or
attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee, provided the sign does not
exceed four square feet in area and maintains a clear distance of at least
seven and one-half feet between the sidewalk and the bottom of the sign;
         (f)   No sign shall be less than 5 feet from the edge of any street
pavement or 15 feet from any other property line.
      (4)   Signs permitted for Industrial Districts and Central Business
Districts.
         (a)   One freestanding sign is permitted for each premise. The area of
the sign shall not exceed the total allowable sign area, but in no case exceed
80 square feet in area, and shall not project more than 25 feet above the
ground. Businesses fronting on more than one public street shall be permitted
one freestanding sign for each frontage; provided however, the combined area of
all signs shall not exceed the allowable sign area and, in no case, 80 square
feet;
         (b)   Wall signs shall be permitted for each business. The location
and number of wall signs is at the option of the owner or tenant, however,
where more than four signs are located on any lot, the fifth sign and each
succeeding sign, respectively, shall reduce the total allowable sign area by
20%;
         (c)   The total allowable sign area shall not be more than one square
foot per lineal foot of building wall facing a public street, not to exceed 100
square feet;
         (d)   One sign per business establishment may be suspended from or
attached to the underside of a canopy or marquee, provided the sign does not
exceed four square feet in area and maintains a clear distance of at least
seven and one-half feet between the sidewalk and the bottom of the sign; and
         (e)   No sign shall be less than ten feet from a street right-of-way
or 20 feet from any other property line.
      (5)   Industrial Park subdivision signs. For Industrial Parks, one
additional sign on each street frontage other than those regulated in Signs
Permitted for Industrial Districts shall be permitted, subject to the
following: permanent signs for industrial park subdivisions shall not exceed 80
square feet in area. Ground mounted signs may be erected at each major entrance
to the subdivision, but shall be located on private property no closer than ten
feet to any property line. No sign shall exceed ten feet in height above ground
level and illumination shall be restricted to indirect white lighting.
      (6)   Master signage plan for shopping centers.
         (a)   Signs presented on a Master Signage Plan and/or a Common Signage
Plan must be uniform in design and features. The same type of materials must be
used for all wall signage on any single or multi-unit structure. All types and
colors of signs, as long as they produce a unifying theme and meet all area and
height requirements, will be considered by the Zoning Administrator except
those expressly prohibited by this chapter.
         (b)   Information required for a Master Signage Plan shall include
specifications for each sign in sufficient detail to determine that the height
and area requirements of the Sign Ordinance have been met. A site plan showing
the layout of each sign is also required. An elevation of the freestanding sign
shall be provided which shows provisions for shared usage and design type.
         (c)   A Master or Common Signage Plan shall be a part of any
development plan, site plan, unified development plan, or other plan required
for development and may be processed simultaneously with the plans(s). A Master
or Common Signage Plan shall be approved prior to the issuance of any sign
permit(s).
         (d)   A Master or Common Signage Plan may be amended by filing a new
plan which complies with all requirements of this chapter. The Zoning
Administrator may approve minor changes to a Master or Common Signage Plan
provided the changes comply with all requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   After approval of a Master or common Signage Plan, no sign shall
be erected, affixed, placed, painted, or otherwise established except in
conformance with the plan and the plan may be enforced in the same way as any
other provision of this chapter.
      (7)   Signs erected by institutions. Signs erected by schools, churches,
hospitals, governments and other institutions are permitted in all districts,
but the size of any such signs shall not be in excess of 32 square feet. If the
sign is freestanding it shall not be closer than ten feet from any property
line and shall not project higher than six feet above ground level.
   (F)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited:
      (1)   Banners, pennants, balloons, posters, ribbons, streamers, spinners
or other similar devices, except as permitted in division (C)(6), above;
      (2)   No sign or device shall be permitted which contains animation or is
illuminated by any flashing, alternating, intermittent, or moving light or
lights;
      (3)   No signs shall be permitted to be erected or maintained upon trees
or painted or drawn upon rocks or utility poles;
      (4)   Billboards;
      (5)   Roof signs;
      (6)   Projecting signs and freestanding signs located within a public
right-of-way except when erected by the town, county, state or federal
government, provided, however, that political signs may be located pursuant to
the provisions of G.S. § 136-32; and
      (7)   No sign may be permitted which appears to direct the movement of
traffic or resembles any official sign, signal or device.
   (G)   Illumination. Signs may be illuminated unless the provisions of this
chapter explicitly state that they shall be unilluminated. Illuminated signs
may be internally illuminated unless the provisions of this chapter explicitly
limit them to illumination by indirect (external) light. Where illuminated
signs are permitted, they shall conform to the following requirements:
      (1)   All signs illuminated under the provisions of this section shall be
constructed to meet the requirements of the National Electric Code;
      (2)   Internally illuminated signs shall be limited to those with glass
or plastic panels bearing the advertisement; provided, however, that exposed
neon tubing shall be permitted;
      (3)   Indirect external flood and display lighting shall be shielded so
as to prevent direct rays or light from being cast into a residential area or
district and/or vehicles approaching on a public right-of-way from any
direction. The lighting shall also be shielded so as to prevent direct view of
the light source from a residence or residential district and/or vehicles
approaching on a public right-of-way from any direction; and
      (4)   Flame as a source of light is prohibited.
   (H)   Maintenance and removal of unsafe signs.
      (1)   All signs of any nature shall be maintained in a state of good
repair. No sign shall be allowed to remain which becomes structurally unsafe,
hazardous or endangers the safety of the public or property.
      (2)   Upon determination by the County Building Inspector or by the
Zoning Administrator in conjunction with the Town's Engineer or Public Works
Director that a sign is structurally unsafe, hazardous or endangers the safety
of the public or property, the Zoning Administrator shall order the same to be
made safe or removed subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   The owner of the sign, the occupant of the premises on which the
sign or structure is located, or the person or firm maintaining the same shall,
upon written notice by registered or certified mail from the Zoning
Administrator, forthwith in the case of immediate danger and in any case within
ten days, secure or repair the sign or structure; and
         (b)   No sign shall be erected or maintained in such a manner that any
portion of its surface or its supports will interfere in any way with the free
use of access to any fire escape, exit or standpoint, or so as to obstruct any
window so that light or ventilation is reduced below minimum standards required
by any applicable law or building code.
   (I)   Penalties and enforcement. Violation of the provisions of these sign
regulations shall be enforceable as set forth below in addition to any other
enforcement provisions set forth in this chapter. (However, any unsafe signs
shall be removed pursuant to division (H), above.)
      (1)   Notice of violation. The Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to issue a notice of violation for all violations of the sign
ordinance. Where the owner of the sign is indicated on the sign or is otherwise
apparent or known to the Zoning Administrator, a copy of the notice of
violation shall be delivered to the sign owner by hand delivery or by certified
mail. In all other cases, a copy of the notice of violation shall be posted on
the sign and a copy shall be delivered by hand delivery or certified mail to
the property owner as shown on the County tax records. In addition, service
hereunder may be made in accordance with Rule 4 of the State Rules of Civil
Procedure.
      (2)   Right to appeal. The sign owner and/or the property owner shall
have the right to file an appeal from the notice of violation of the Zoning
Administrator to the Board of Adjustment pursuant to the procedure set forth in
§
154.046, above.
      (3)   Time to remedy violation. The sign owner and/or the property owner
shall have 15 days to remedy all violations set forth in the notice of
violation unless an appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator is
sought by the aggrieved party. The 15-day period shall commence upon the
earlier of the posting of the notice of violation on the sign or the delivery
of a copy of the notice of violation to the sign owner or property owner.
      (4)   Extension of time for compliance. The Zoning Administrator shall
have the authority to grant a single 30-day extension of time within which the
sign owner must comply with the. notice of violation. The single extension of
time may be issued based upon a written request for extension of lime, which
sets forth valid reasons for not complying within the original 15-day period.
      (5)   Remedies for failure to comply. Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(f), the
Zoning Administrator may choose from the remedies set forth below to enforce
the ordinance when there is a failure to comply with the notice of violation.
These remedies are as follows.
         (a)   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in
this section, the Zoning Administrator may issue a citation setting forth a
civil penalty of $50. In the case of a continuing violation, each 24-hour
period during which the violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate violation. The citation shall be served upon the person(s) described
in division (I)(l) by the means set forth therein. In the even the offender
does not pay the penalty within ten days of service of the citation, the civil
penalty shall be collected by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt,
which shall not constitute a misdemeanor, and in so providing, the Town Council
hereby chooses to exercise the option provided by G.S. § 160A-175(b).
         (b)   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in the
section, the Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to issue a remove
order for any sign not repaired or brought into compliance within the time
required by the foregoing provisions. Remove orders shall be issued to and
served upon the person(s) described in division (I)(l) above by the means set
forth therein. The sign owner or the landowner shall be allowed a period of 30
days after the service of the remove order within which to remove the sign at
his or her own expense. The remove order shall describe specifically the
location of the sign to be removed and all of the reasons for issuance of the
remove order, including specific reference to the provisions of the ordinance
which have been violated.
         (c)   In addition to or in lieu of the other remedies set forth in
this section, the Zoning Administrator may seek injunctive relief in the
appropriate court.
      (6)   Removal and recovery of expense. If a sign owner or property owner
fails to comply with the requirements of a remove order, the Zoning
Administrator may cause the sign to be removed. The sign owner and property
owner shall be jointly and severally liable for the expense of removal.
      (7)   Notice; collection of sum. Notice of the cost of removal shall be
served upon the person(s) described in division (I)(l) by the means set forth
therein. If the sum is not paid within 30 days thereafter, the sum shall be
collected by the town in a civil action in the nature of debt, which shall not
subject the offender to the penalty provision of G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1117, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 3-25-2010; Am.
Ord. passed 12-15-2011; Am. Ord. passed 9-18-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-03, passed 2-
18-2016)
§ 154.113 VENDING MACHINES.
   All vending machines are hereafter prohibited from town sidewalks on the
following streets in the Central Business District: Mills Street, Ward Street,
Gibson Street and Courthouse Street.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1118, passed - -)
§ 154.114 BENCHES, DINING TABLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No benches, dining or café tables, umbrellas and chairs shall be
permitted on town sidewalks within the Central Business District, without first
obtaining a permit therefore from the Town Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   In the event the Zoning Administrator denies the permit, an
administrative review is provided in accordance with the same procedures set
forth in §
154.045(B) above.
   (C)   The following criteria shall be utilized by the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Whether the benches, dining or café tables, umbrellas and chairs
would block pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   Whether the benches, dining or café tables, umbrellas and chairs
would block the view of any adjoining business or property owner on the same
side of the street and their advertising and signs from both pedestrian and
vehicular traffic; and
      (3)   Whether the benches, dining or café tables, umbrellas and chairs
would block access to any adjoining business or property owner on the same side
of the street.
   (D)   A sketch showing the color scheme, the number of chairs and tables or
benches, and dimensional requirements both of the chairs, tables, umbrellas and
benches and it s location on the dimension measure for the sidewalk must also
be presented to the Zoning Administrator. A mere inquiry in the procedures made
to the Zoning Administrator or any town employee shall not be construed as
making a formal request for the issuance of a permit.
   (E)   (1)   Any permit granted by the Zoning Administrator, or by the Board
of Adjustment or by the Superior Court may subsequently be revoked if any of
these criteria should subsequently change.
      (2)   The owner may apply for any additional chairs, tables, umbrellas
and/or benches and must reapply for an additional permit pursuant to these same
procedures.
(Ord., Art. XI, § 1119, passed - -)
§ 154.115 FAMILY CARE HOMES.
   No family care home may be located within one-half mile of any other family
care home.
(Ord. passed 12-20-2012)
§ 154.116 ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS : MAXIMUM NUMBER OF TERMINALS.
   There shall be a maximum of six electronic gaming terminals in any location
where gaming terminals are allowed as permitted by the town in §
154.065 above.
(Ord. passed 11-21-2013)
EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS
§ 154.125 FRONT YARD SETBACK FOR DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter is mandatory;
however, under the specific conditions enumerated in the following sections,
the requirements may be waived or modified as so stated.
   (B)   The front yard setback requirements of this chapter for dwellings
shall not apply on any lot where the average setback of existing buildings
located wholly or in part within 100 feet on each side of the lot within the
same block and zoning district and fronting on the same side of the street is
less than the minimum required setback. In those cases, the setback may be less
than the required setback, but not less than the average of the aforementioned
existing buildings.
(Ord., Art. XII, § 1200, passed - -)
§ 154.126 COMPLETION OF BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall require any changes in the plans,
construction or designated use of a building under construction at the date of
the passage of this chapter. Provided that construction of the building is
diligently pursued and the entire building is completed within 18 months form
the date of passage of the ordinance.
   (B)   A building shall be deemed to be under construction upon the effective
date of this chapter if a building permit has been issued.
(Ord., Art. XII, § 1201, passed - -)
§ 154.127 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water
towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks,
conveyors, flag poles, radio towers, television towers, masts, aerials and
similar structures.
(Ord., Art. XII, § 1202, passed - -)
§ 154.128 TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The temporary use permit is a mechanism to allow a use on a
short-term basis and certain seasonal or transient uses not otherwise allowed.
Prior to conducting or establishing a temporary use or structure, approval of a
temporary use permit by the Zoning Administrator is required.
   (B)   Approval criteria.
      (1)   All temporary uses listed in this section require a temporary use
permit. The Zoning Administrator shall not approve or modify and approve an
application for a temporary use permit unless the following criteria, specific
regulations and time limitations are met.
      (2)   If any of the information provided to satisfy the approval criteria
is found to be falsified or intentionally inaccurate the permit shall be
immediately voided.
         (a)   Compatibility with/effect on surrounding area. The allowance of
the use shall not be detrimental to the public health, safety and general
welfare and the use shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of this
chapter and the specific zoning classification in which it is located. The use
must be compatible in intensity, characteristics and appearance with existing
land uses in the immediate vicinity of the temporary use, and the use, value
and qualities of the neighborhood surrounding the temporary use will not be
adversely affected by the use or activities associated with it. In addition, to
those listed herein, factors such as location, noise, light, dust control and
hours of operation shall be considered.
         (b)   Location (zoning classification). Temporary uses shall only be
allowed in the zoning classifications as specified in the table in division (K)
below. Any temporary use which is left blank or which is not listed is not
allowed.
         (c)   Location (permission required). The use shall not be on publicly
or privately owned property unless the applicant first obtains written approval
from the owner.
         (d)   Traffic. The location of the temporary use or structure shall be
such that adverse effects on surrounding properties will be minimal,
particularly regarding any type of traffic generated or impacted by the
temporary use or structure and impact upon traffic circulation in the area.
         (e)   Parking and access. Adequate off-street parking shall be
provided to serve the use. The use shall not displace the required off-street
parking spaces or loading areas of the principal permitted uses on the site.
The entrance and exit drives shall be designed to prevent traffic hazards and
nuisances.
         (f)   Property line setbacks. Structures and/or display or merchandise
shall comply with the yard and property line setback requirements of the zone
district within which it is located. The items shall be displayed so as not to
interfere with the sight triangle of the intersection of the curb line of any
two streets or a driveway and a street. In no case shall items be displayed, or
business conducted within the public right-of-way.
         (g)   Signs. Signage for temporary uses shall be permitted only within
the time frame from which the temporary use is permitted.
         (h)   Number per parcel. Only one temporary use shall be permitted for
a single parcel of land at any given time.
   (C)   Temporary retail sales uses.
      (1)   Seasonal sale of agricultural products (including Christmas trees).
Temporary use permits are required for all roadside stands in a zoning district
in which the stands are permitted under division (K) below. These sales are
limited to a period of time not to exceed four consecutive months per calendar
year. A maximum of one building/display booth shall be allowed and may cover a
maximum of 400 square feet. The structure must be portable and completely
removed at the end of the period.
      (2)   Other temporary retail sales. Temporary use permits are required
for the sale of food, cut flowers, beverages or merchandise from a stand in a
zoning district in which the stands are permitted under §
154.128(K) below. Temporary vendors shall have the following restrictions:
         (a)   A temporary use permit shall be valid for 180 days, and can be
renewed at the end of each 180-day period.
         (b)   Only one temporary use permit for a temporary vendor may be
issued at a time.
         (c)   Trailers, carts and related storage must be removed by the close
of each business day, and cannot be more than 100 square feet in size. Truck
trailers are not permitted except for short-term delivery.
         (d)   The use may only be located on a vacant lot or a lot occupied
with a nonresidential use.
         (e)   At the issuance and renewal of a temporary use permit, the
applicant shall supply the Zoning Administrator with a schedule of the days of
operation of the business, along with permission from the property owner to
locate on the property.
         (f)   The temporary use shall adhere to all setback requirements of
the zoning district in which the use is proposed to be located.
         (g)   The property on which the temporary use is proposed to be
located shall be large enough such that the difference between the area of the
lot and the area of the footprint of any existing buildings shall be at least
twice the minimum area required by §§
154.066 through
154.068 above.
         (h)   The temporary use permit shall be issued only after payment of
the fee set forth in the town's fee schedule, and completion of an application
providing the following information:
            (i)   The name, home and business address of the applicant, and the
name and address of the owner of the vending business, if other than the
applicant;
            (ii)   A description of the type of food, beverage or merchandise
to be sold;
            (iii)   The applicant's state sales tax number or, if the applicant
is a charitable organization, its tax exempt number;
            (iv)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor other than a minor traffic citation within the past ten years and,
if so, the crime convicted of and date and place of conviction;
            (v)   A site plan depicting the layout of the proposed temporary
use in relation to any existing buildings and property lines;
            (vi)   The size of the lot or parcel on which the use is proposed
to be located, the size of any existing buildings or structures on the subject
property, and the number of existing parking spaces on the property; and
            (vii)   A copy of any approval required by the County Health
Department pursuant to “Rules Governing the Sanitation of Restaurants and Other
Foodhandling Establishments,” 10 N.C.A.C., Ch. 10, Subchapter 10A.
         (i)   All temporary use permit applications shall be submitted at
least seven days prior to the commencement of the temporary use.
         (j)   It shall be unlawful for a temporary vendor to:
            (i)   Violate any federal, state, county or town law or regulation
that pertains to food, beverages or the selling thereof, or that pertains to
the operation of the vendor's business in the town;
            (ii)   Fail to permit any lawfully requested inspection by health
officials or to comply with any lawful request of a police officer;
            (iii)   Fail to carry and display at all times of operation the
permit issued under tins chapter;
            (iv)   Have a vending stand that is not in compliance with the
review regulations or any additional special restrictions or conditions stated
in the permit;
            (v)   Vend without insurance if such is a condition of the vendor's
permit;
            (vi)   Sell food or beverages for immediate consumption, unless the
vendor has available for public use a litter receptacle not more than ten feet
distant from the vendor's stand;
            (vii)   Leave his or her designated location without first picking
up, removing and disposing of all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by
the vendor;
            (viii)   Allow any item relating to the operation of the vending
business to be placed anywhere other than in, on or under the vending stand;
            (ix)   Offer to sell any goods other than those permitted by the
permit;
            (x)   Sound or permit the sounding of any device which produces a
loud and raucous noise, or engage in any hawking or harassment for the purpose
of attracting the attention of the public to the vending stand;
            (xi)   Have any advertising, except the posting of prices, the name
of the products, and the name of the vendor; or
            (xii)   Solicit or conduct business with persons in motor vehicles.
   (D)   Real estate development and construction-related temporary uses.
      (1)   Contractors office and equipment/storage shed. Placement of an
accessory to a residential or non-residential construction project is limited
to a period of time determined by an estimated project completion date with the
option of an extension of up to one year as and if approved by the
Administrator. A construction trailer may be used for a contractor's office or
for the contractor's storage of equipment and materials. All temporary
buildings and trailers shall be completely removed from the site within 30 days
of issuance of a certificate of occupancy or completion of the construction
project, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   Real estate office in a construction trailer or temporary modular
unit. One temporary structure, such as a construction trailer or temporary
modular unit may be used as a real estate sales office in any new construction
project for the sale of units within that project only. A temporary use may be
allowed in all zoning districts. The permit shall be valid for a period of six
months or until the first unit for the project is completed, whichever occurs
first.
      (3)   Real estate office in a model home. This use is limited to a period
of time not to exceed 24 months, with the option of two extensions of up to 12
months each, as and if approved by the Administrator. The number of employees
utilizing the office at any one time may not exceed five. A real estate office
may not contain sleeping or cooking accommodations unless located in a model
drawing.
      (4)   Single-family dwelling in temporary structure. During the active
construction period (after a building or grading permit has been issued) of a
construction project involving a non-residential use or a residential
development with building permit(s) for more than 50 units at one time, one
mobile home or trailer may be allowed on the same property to be used as a
temporary residence by a night watchman for a period not to exceed 12 months or
the active construction period, whichever is less. The temporary home shall be
removed from the site within 14 days of issuance of the certificate of zoning
compliance for a non-residential structure or the first residential unit if
within a residential development.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. No recreational vehicles shall be permitted as
a temporary use or structure.
   (F)   Manufactured homes as a temporary structure.
      (1)   Manufactured homes may be allowed on a temporary basis in a zoning
district in which the use is not listed as a permitted use, if a disaster
occurs which results in an occupied, single-family dwelling being destroyed
(i.e., it receives damage grater than 60% of its tax value as indicated on the
most current tax listings).
      (2)   In this instance, a manufactured home may be placed on the lot
containing the dwelling unit which was destroyed. The purpose of allowing the
manufactured home on the lot is to give the occupants of the destroyed dwelling
unit a place to live while a new dwelling unit is being constructed or damage
to the original dwelling unit is being repaired.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is used for such an occurrence, it is
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The manufactured home shall be placed in the side or rear yard
unless topography dictates placement in the front yard, and shall be located no
closer than 15 feet to another principal residential structure on another lot;
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall be given the authority to issue a
zoning permit for the temporary use on a one-time basis only for a period of up
to nine months; and
         (c)   The permit may be renewed on a one-time only basis (for a period
of no greater than nine months) by the Board of Adjustment if it is determined
that:
            1.   Construction of a new dwelling unit is proceeding in a
diligent manner;
            2.   The granting of the permit will not materially endanger the
public, health, welfare or safety; and
            3.   The location of the manufactured home on the site does not
have a negative effect on abutting properties.
   (G)   Temporary yard and garage sales. Yard, garage, tag, patio and
apartment sales are permitted without a permit, as an accessory use on any
residential or institutional property in any district. Sales on the same lot
shall be limited to no more than two days per calendar month.
   (H)   Amusement enterprises. Carnivals, circuses, fairs and amusement rides
may be allowed in any non-residential zoning district for a period not to
exceed 21 days within any calendar year. This classification excludes events
conducted in a permanent entertainment facility.
   (I)   Religious events. Religious events in a tent or other temporary
structure may be allowed for a period not to exceed 60 days.
   (J)   Special events and activities. Special events and activities conducted
on public property, such as school sites and public parks, including farmer’s
markets, shall be exempt from the provisions of this section of the Zoning
Ordinance, but must comply with any guidelines, regulations and permitting
processes required by the authorizing agent, and any other applicable
provisions of this code.
   (K)   Permitted temporary uses. Temporary uses shall only be allowed in the
zoning classifications as specified below and are subject to the applicable
restrictions of this section. Any temporary use which is left blank or which is
not listed is not allowed.
 RE R-1 LD R-2 MD CBD HC IND PS MU TND
                                          RE R-1 LD R-2 MD CBD HC IND PS MU TND
Seasonal sale of agricultural products    P  P      P      P   P  P   P  P  P
Temporary retail sales                                     P   P  P      P  P
Contractor's office/storage shed          P  P      P      P   P  P   P  P  P
Real estate office in temporary structure P  P      P      P   P         P  P
Real estate office in model home          P  P      P      P   P         P  P
Manufactured home as a temporary          P  P      P      P   P         P  P
structure
Single-family dwelling in temporary       P  P      P      P   P  P   P  P  P
structure
Temporary yard and garage sales           P  P      P      P   P  P   P  P  P
Amusement enterprises                                      P   P  P   P  P  P
Religious events                          P  P      P      P   P  P   P  P  P
Special events and activities             P  P      P      P   P  P   P     P
 
(Ord., Art. XII, § 1203, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-6, passed 8-18-2011; Am.
Ord. passed 3-16-2017)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.140 AMENDMENTS IN GENERAL.
   This chapter, including the zoning map, may be amended by the Town Council
in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord., Art. XIII, § 1300, passed - -)
§ 154.141 INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS.
   Proposed changes or amendments may be initiated by the Town Council, the
Planning Board, the Board of Adjustment or one or more owners of property
within the area proposed to be changed or affected. All proposed amendments
should be referred to the Planning Board for their review and recommendation to
the Town Council.
(Ord., Art. XIII, § 1301, passed - -)
§ 154.142 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before any action on a proposed change or amendment, an application
shall be submitted to the office of the Zoning Administrator at least ten days
prior to the Planning Board's meeting at which the application is to be
considered. The application shall contain the name(s) and address (es) of the
owner(s) of the property in question, the location of the property, and a
description and/or statement of the present and proposed zoning regulation or
district. The application shall also include a statement regarding the
consistency of the request with adopted town plans and surrounding areas.
   (B)   All applications requesting a change in the zoning map shall include a
description of the property in question. The Planning Board and the Town
Council will not consider an application for property denied within the
proceeding 12 months by the Town Council.
(Ord., Art. XIII, § 1302, passed - -)
§ 154.143 PLANNING BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   Before taking any action on a proposed amendment to the ordinance, the
Town Council shall consider the Planning Board's recommendations on each
proposed amendment. The Planning Board shall have 30 days after the first
consideration of the application within which to submit its recommendations to
the Town Council.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall include in their recommendation a statement
of consistency. Failure of the Planning Board to submit recommendations within
the 30 day period shall constitute a favorable recommendation.
(Ord., Art. XIII, § 1303, passed - -)
§ 154.144 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Before enacting any amendment to this chapter, the Town Council shall hold a
pubic hearing. Notice of public hearing shall be given as required by G.S. §
160A-384, as follows.
   (A)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail to all adjacent property
owners describing the proposed development plan at least ten days prior to the
public hearing.
   (B)   A notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the town once a week for two successive weeks, the first
publication shall not appear less than ten days or more than 25 days prior to
the date fixed for the public hearing. The notice shall include the time, place
and date of the hearing and include a description of the property or the nature
of the change or amendment to the ordinance and/or map.
   (C)   Adequate notice shall be posted prominently on the subject property on
at least each public street that it fronts upon continuously for at least ten
days prior to the public hearing.
(Ord., Art. XIII, § 1304, passed - -)
§ 154.145 DECISION.
   The Town Council shall make a decision on the proposed amendment within 60
days after the public hearing.
(Ord., Art. XIII, § 1305, passed - -)
§ 154.146 PROTESTS.
   If any resident or property owner in the town submits a written statement
regarding a proposed amendment, modification, or repeal to the zoning ordinance
to the clerk of the Council at least two business days prior to the proposed
vote on such change, the clerk to the Council shall deliver such written
statement to the Town Council. If the proposed change is the subject of a
quasi-judicial proceeding under G.S.§ 160A-388, the Clerk shall provide only
the names and addresses of the individuals providing written comment, and the
provision of such names and addresses to all members of the Council shall not
disqualify any member of the Council from voting.
(Ord., Art. XIII, § 1306, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 3-16-2017)
§ 154.147 REZONING COSTS.
   Costs associated with a rezoning request shall be born by the petitioner.
Included in the costs, but not by way of limitation, are legal fees,
advertising costs, and all expenses incurred in the notification of adjacent
property owners.
(Ord., Art. XIII, § 1307, passed - -)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. Whenever, by the provisions of this chapter, the
performance of any act is prohibited, or whenever any regulation, dimension or
limitation is imposed on the use of any land, or on the erection or alterations
or the use or change of use of a structure, or the uses within the structure, a
failure to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
separate violation and a separate offence.
   (B)   Penalties. Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished for each
offense by a fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not to exceed 30 days.
Each day the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offence.
   (C)   Remedies. If a building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, moved or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, moving, maintenance or use, to
restrain, correct or abate the violation, to prevent occupancy of the building,
structure or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct or business or use in
or about the premises.
(Ord., Art. XIV, passed - -)
APPENDIX A: ACCEPTABLE PLANT SPECIES
   The following list of plant species includes shade trees, ornamental trees
and shrubs which are acceptable for landscaping in this area of the state. A
few species are labeled as "discouraged" due to marginal hardiness in this
zone, to disease susceptibility, or to overuse.
Shade Trees
Botanical Name Common Name
Shade Trees
Botanical Name            Common Name
Acer rubrum               Red maple
Acer saccharum            Sugar maple
Amelanchier canadensis    Serviceberry
Betula nigra              River birch
Carya illinoensis         Pecan
Carya ovata               Shagbark hickory
Carya glabra              Pignut hickory
Carya cordiformis         Bitternut hickory
Cedrus deodara            Deodar cedar
Celtis occidentalis       Hackberry
Cupressocyparis leylandii Leyland cypress (discouraged)
Diospyros virginiana      Persimmon
Fagus grandiflora         American beech
Fraxinus americana        White ash
Fraxinus pennsylvanica    Green ash
Ginkgo biloba             Ginkgo
Juniperus virginiana      Eastern red cedar
Liquidambar styraciflua   Sweetgum
Liriodendron tulipifera   Tulip poplar
Magnolia grandiflora      Southern magnolia
Nyssa sylvatica           Black gum
Pinus echinata            Short leaf pine
Pinus nigra               Austrian pine
Pinus thunbergi           Japanese black pine
Pinus taeda               Loblolly pine
Pinus virginiana          Virginia pine
Platanus acerifolia       London planetree
Quercus acutissima        Sawtooth oak
Quercus alba              White oak
Quercus bicolor           Swamp white oak
Quercus coccinea          Scarlet oak
Quercus falcata           Southern red oak
Quercus laurifolia        Laurel oak
Quercus nigra             Water oak
Quercus phellos           Willow oak
Quercus borealis          Northern red oak
Quercus shumardi          Shumard oak
Quercus velutina          Black oak
Quercus virginiana        Live oak
Sophora japonica regent   Japanese pagoda tree
Taxodium distichum        Bald cypress
Ulmus parvifolia          Lacebark elm
Ulmus alata               Winged elm
Zelkova serrata           Japanese zelkova
 
Ornamental Trees
Botanical Name Common Name
Ornamental Trees
Botanical Name              Common Name
Acer buergeranum            Trident maple
Acer campestre              Hedge maple
Acer palmatum               Japanese maple
Carpinus betulus            European hornbeam
Carpinus caroliniana        American hornbeam
Cercis canadensis           Eastern redbud
Cornus florida              Flowering dogwood
Cornus kousa                Kousa dogwood
Crataegus phaenopyrum       Washington hawthorne
Eleganus angustifolia       Russian olive
Halesia carolina            Carolina silverbell
Hammamelis mollis           Chinese witch-hazel
Ilex fosteri                Foster holly
Ilex opaca                  American holly
Ilex opaca hume             Hume holly
Ilex x attenuata savannah   Savannah holly
Koelreutaria paniculata     Golden rain-tree
Lagerstroemia indica        Crapemyrtle
Magnolia soulangeana        Saucer magnolia
Magnolia stellata           Star magnolia
Malus hybrids               Flowering crabapple
Ostrya virginiana           Ironwood
Oxydendrum arboreum         Sourwood
Primus cerasifera pissardii Purpleleaf plum
Prunus serrulata kwanzan    Kwanzan cherry
Prunus subhirtella pendula  Weeping cherry
Prunus yedoensis            Yoshino cherry
Prunus caroliniana          Carolina cherry laural
Pyrus calleryana 'Redspire' Redspire pear (discouraged)
Pyrus calleryana 'Capital'  Capital pear (discouraged)
 
Shrubs
Botanical Name Common Name
Shrubs
Botanical Name                        Common Name
Abelia grandiflora                    Glossy abelia
Aucuba japonica                       Japanese aucuba
Azalea hybrida                        Glenn dale azalea
Azalea indica                         Indian azalea
Azalea obtusum Kaempferi              Kaempferi azalea
Bambusa multiplex                     Hedge bamboo
Berberis julianae                     Wintergreen barberry
Brberis thunbergii                    Japanese barberry
Camellia japonica                     Camellia
Camellia sasanqua                     Sasanqua Camellia
Chaenomeles speciosa                  Flowering quince
Cleyera japonica                      Cleyera
Euonymus alatus                       Winged euonymus
Euonymus japonicus                    Evergreen euonymus
Eleagnus pungens                      Eleagnus
Forsythia intermedia                  Forsythia
Hammamelis virginiana                 Witch-hazel
Hydrangea quercifolia                 Oakleaf hydrangea
Ilex aquifolium                       English holly
Ilex cornuta                          Chinese holly
Ilex cornuta burfordi                 Burford holly
Ilex cornuta burfordi nana            Dwarf burford holy
Ilex crenata 'convexa'                Convex Japanese holly
Ilex crenata 'hetzi'                  Hetzi Japanese holly
Ilex crenata 'rotundifolis'           Roundleaf Japanese holly
Ilex "Emily Brunner"                  Emily brunner holly
Ilex glabra                           Inkberry holly
Ilex latifolia                        Lusterleaf holly
Ilex pernyi                           Perny holly
Ilex vomitoria                        Yaupon holly
Juniperus chinensis pfitzeriana       Pfltzer juniper
Juniperus chinesis hetzi              Hetzi juniper
Laurus nobilis                        Laurel
Ligustrum japonicum                   Japanese privet
Ligustrum lucidum                     Glossy privet
Ligustrum vicaryi                     Vicary golden privet
Loropetalum chinense                  Lotopetalum
Mahonia bealei                        Leatherleaf mahonia
Myrica cerifera                       Wax myrtle
Nandina domestica                     Nandina
Osmanthus fortunei                    Fortune tea olive
Osmanthus fragrans                    Fragrant tea olive
Osmanthus heterophyllus               Holly osmanthus
Osmanthus heterophyllus rotundifolius Curly leaf tea olive
Pieris floribunda                     Mountain andromeda
Pieris japonica                       Japanese andromeda
Pittosporum tobira                    Pittosporum (discouraged)
Prunus laurocerasus                   English laurel
Prunus laurocerasus "Zabel"           "Zabel" Skip laurel
Podocarpus macrophyllus maki          Podocarpus (discouraged)
Prunus laurocerasus angustifolia      Narrow leafed english laurel
Pyracantha coccinea                   Scarlet firethorn
Raphiolepsis umbellata                Yeddo-hawthorn
Raphiolepsis indica                   India hawthorn
Spirea cantoniensis                   Reves spirea
Spirea thunbergi                      Thunberg spirea
Spirea prunifolia plena               Bridalwreath spirea
Spirea vanhouttei                     Vanhoutte spirea
Taxus cuspidata                       Japanese yew
Viburnum rhytidophyllum               Leatherleaf viburnum
Viburnum tinus                        Laurestinus viburnum
 
(Ord., Addendum, passed - -)
CHAPTER 155: ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES
Section
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Purpose; intent
   
155.03   Findings
   
155.04   Definitions
   
155.05   Level of service standards
   
155.06   Town Manager; written determination
   
155.07   Determination; application
   
155.08   Table of standards
   
155.09   Applicability
   
155.10   Final determination of adequacy
   
155.11   Non-availability of capacity; mitigation plans
   
155.12   Capital Improvements Program (CIP) and APF monitoring reports
   
155.13   Appeals and variances
   
155.14   Application submission and review process
   
155.15   Severability
§ 155.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as the town's "Adequate
Public Facilities Ordinance".
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.02 PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is:
   (A)   To ensure that public facilities needed to support new residential and
commercial development meet or exceed the level of service standards
established herein.) To ensure that public facilities needed to support new
development meet adopted level of service standards;
   (B)   To ensure that the town maintains realistic Capital Improvements
Programs to accommodate new development based on its ability to provide
adequate public facilities to that development;
   (C)   To protect the small town character of the town and to conserve the
value of buildings and encourage the most appropriate use of land throughout
the town;
   (D)   To ensure that adequate public facilities needed to support new
development are available within a reasonable period of time as new development
occurs;
   (E)   To establish uniform procedures for the review of adequate public
facilities applications subject to the standards and requirements of this
chapter;
   (F)   To encourage the efficient development of land in the town;
   (G)   To ensure that new growth occurs at a rate that is consistent with the
town's and its partnership agencies' obligation and ability to provide public
facilities;
   (H)   To encourage development in areas where public facilities are adequate
and/or planned in Capital Improvement Programs;
   (I)   To ensure that all applicable legal standards and criteria are
incorporated in these procedures and requirements; and
   (J)   To ensure that proposed development will not adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare of existing and future residents of
the town.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.03 FINDINGS.
   In adopting this chapter, the town hereby finds and determines as follows:
   (A)   The public facilities subject to the provisions of this chapter are
necessary for the public health, safety and general welfare;
   (B)   New growth and development within the town has an impact on the
availability and capacity of public facilities, the capacity of which can be
maintained if development is approved consistent with adopted level of service
standards;
   (C)   The town has prepared and adopted a Capital Improvements Program to
provide the public facilities needed to accommodate reasonable rates of growth
and development, which CIP will be reviewed and updated if necessary annually
to reflect changes in the town's growth rate, available financial resources,
and other relevant factors;
   (D)   The level of service standards adopted for each public facility are
necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and welfare, and will
not unduly inhibit new growth and development within the town; and
   (E)   This chapter is necessary so that continued growth does not outstrip
the town's ability to plan for and fund necessary public facilities.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The words, terms and phrases used in this chapter shall have the meanings
set forth in §§
154.004 and
154.005 of this code of ordinances, except as set forth below. For the purpose
of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use or structure on the same lot with and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal use or structure.
   ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES (APF) ALLOCATION. A reservation of capacity made
by the Administrator upon a determination of adequacy.
   ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES (APF) APPLICATION. An application for a
determination of adequacy of public facilities.
   ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES (APF) SCHEDULE. A schedule maintained by the
Administrator that tracks the capacity of public facilities.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The Columbus Town Manager or his or her designee
   ADVANCED FACILITY. A capital improvement proposed to be constructed,
dedicated or funded by an applicant pursuant to an approved mitigation plan.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached building subordinate to the main building on
a lot and used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or principal
building and located on the same lot.
   CAPACITY. The demand that can be accommodated by a public facility.
   CAPACITY, ALLOCATED. Capacity reserved pursuant to an unexpired APF
allocation made under this chapter.
   CAPACITY, AVAILABLE. The circumstance where public facilities have
sufficient capacity, based on adopted levels of service standards, to
accommodate the demand created by a proposed development, including where an
applicant has provided advanced facilities sufficient to mitigate the impacts
of the proposed development on public facilities.
   CAPACITY, COMMITTED. Capacity consumed by development approved prior to the
effective date of this chapter and not subject to the requirements of this
chapter.
   CAPACITY, RESERVED. Capacity reserved for a specified development or use,
other than those set aside pursuant to an APF allocation, including
developments proposed after the effective date of this chapter, which impact
public facilities, but which are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   CAPACITY, USED. Capacity dedicated to habitable structures and existing land
uses, served by the public facility at the time of the APF determination.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS. A physical asset, including land, that mitigates the
offsite impacts of new development on public facilities, the costs of which
generally are nonrecurring, may require multi-year financing, and provide
additional capacity needed to accommodate the demand for public facilities.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS, EXISTING. Capital improvements either constructed and
operational at the time of an APF application or the portion of a capital
improvement which was designed to serve existing residents and employees as of
the effective date of this chapter.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS, PLANNED. Capital improvements included on a CIP and
expected to be available by the end of the third fiscal year following the date
of the APF application.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS, TOTAL. Existing capital improvements and planned
capital improvements.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM or CIP. Plans and budgets adopted by the town,
or service provider of a particular public facility, which itemize planned
capital improvements and the timing and means of funding the improvements.
   DETERMINATION OF ADEQUACY. A determination by the Administrator, after
consultation with the responsible agency or town department, that each public
facility impacted by a proposed development has available capacity, which
determination may be based on an approved mitigation plan.
   DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL. Any of the following applications that specify the
amount of proposed floor area and/or number of units or lots, by land use type,
and which has not received a determination of adequacy:
      (1)   A special use permit;
      (2)   Any overlay district for which a site specific development plan is
required under the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   A conditional zoning district;
      (4)   A subdivision sketch plan or a preliminary plan when required by
the Subdivision Ordinance;
      (5)   A final plat when no sketch plan or preliminary plan is required;
or
      (6)   Building permit.
   ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES. Facilities operated by governmental or quasi-
governmental agencies that provide services on behalf of the public, which are
critical to the health, safety and welfare of the public. ESSENTIAL PUBLIC
SERVICES may include but are not limited to governmental offices, parks and
recreation facilities; public transit facilities; schools; gas, electric or
steam distribution systems; water and sewer services; solid waste systems;
communications systems; emergency services; publicly-owned housing; fire
protection services; and law enforcement services.
   FTE; FULL TIME EMPLOYEE. Refers to the number of full time personnel in a
department.
   LEVEL OF SERVICE (LOS). An indicator of the extent or degree of service
provided by a public facility, based upon and related to the operational
characteristics of the facility, in comparison to the capacity of the public
facility.
   MITIGATION PLAN. A voluntary plan, effectuated through a binding agreement,
to ensure the provision of available capacity through advanced facilities,
where capacity would not otherwise be adequate to support the demand resulting
from a proposed development.
   PHASED DEVELOPMENT PROPOSAL. A development proposal wherein the proposed
development will be constructed incrementally in a logical time and
geographical sequence according to an approved phasing schedule.
   PHASING SCHEDULE. A schedule that sets forth the timing of the development
of a development proposal, including, but not limited to, provision of
necessary public facilities, the number of units, as applicable, and their
location on the site.
   PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT. Development proposed pursuant to a development
proposal and an APF application.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Parks and recreation, law enforcement, fire protection
facilities, government administrative facilities, water system, sewer system
and street system
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.05 LEVEL OF SERVICE STANDARDS.
   The level of service standards applicable to public facilities are as
follows.
   (A)   Law enforcement.
      (1)   For purposes of determining compliance with the level of service
standard for law enforcement, an inventory of the number of law enforcement
service units (LESU) shall be maintained by the Town Manager.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall forward the application to the Chief of
Police of the town for his or her review and comments. The Town Manager shall
consider the comments and recommendations of the Chief of Police, but shall
remain the ultimate authority to determine whether LESLTs are adequate for the
purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   One police officer shall be added when 250 new residential and/or
commercial units are added.
   (B)   Fire protection. The Town Manager shall forward the application to the
Fire Chief of the town for his or her review and comments. The Town Manager
shall consider the comments and recommendations of the Fire Chief, but shall
remain ultimate authority to determine whether the current fire protection is
adequate for the purposes of this chapter.
   (C)   Community parks and greenways.
      (1)   This shall be according to
Chapter 153 of this code of ordinances. For purposes of determining compliance
with the level of service standard for parks, greenways and other recreational
facilities, an inventory of the number of PTEs shall be maintained by the Town
Manager.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall forward the application to the Public Works
Director of the town for his or her review and comments. The Town Manager shall
consider the comments and recommendations of the Public Works Director, but
shall remain the ultimate authority to determine whether FTEs are adequate for
the purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   Water services.
      (1)   For purposes of determining compliance with the level of service
standard for water infrastructure maintenance, an inventory of the number of
FTEs shall be maintained by the Town Manager.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall forward the application to the Public Works
Director of the town for his or her review and comments. The Town Manager shall
consider the comments and recommendations of the Public Works Director, but
shall remain the ultimate authority to determine whether FTEs are adequate for
the purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   Water requirements shall not apply to agricultural uses. The water
standard applies to water supply and water treatment needed to accommodate the
gallons per capita per day (gpcd) generated by residential and non-residential
uses. Usage figures for residential and non-residential usage are taken from
actual historical usage of water as pumped and the town water supply plan. Flow
rates used to estimate the demand produced by proposed development shall comply
with 15A NCAC § 18C.0409, which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a
part of this chapter, unless a different standard is identified in any local
water supply plan for the service area adopted pursuant to G.S. § 143- 55(1),
in which case the flow rates identified for the particular use in the water
supply plan may be used. If the category of development proposed in the
application is not identified in the above-referenced regulations, the
professional engineer shall use the applicable industry and manufacturer's
standards to calculate average and peak daily flows and demands, in gallons per
day. The capacity for elevated storage and distribution systems shall comply
with 15A NCAC §§ 18C.0805 to 18C.0901, which regulations are hereby
incorporated by reference. Approval through the adequate facilities process
outlined in this section shall in no manner imply approval of required
distribution systems.
   (E)   Wastewater.
      (1)   For purposes of determining compliance with the level of service
standard for water infrastructure maintenance, an inventory of the number of
FTEs shall be maintained by the Town Manager.
      (2)   The Town Manager shall forward the application to the waste water
treatment plant operator the town for his or her review and comments. The Town
Manager shall consider the comments and recommendations of the Wastewater
Treatment Plant Operator, but shall remain the ultimate authority to determine
whether FTEs are adequate for the purposes of this chapter.
      (3)   The wastewater standard applies to wastewater treatment plants
(WWTPs), interceptor sewers and pumping stations. The standard for source
facilities applies only to treatment capacity legally reserved for usage by the
town wastewater plan. Flow rates used to estimate the demand produced by the
proposed development shall be consistent with the assumptions set forth in 15A
NCAC 18A.1949 (Sewage Flow Rates for Design Units), as the section may be
revised from time to time. If the category of development proposed in the
application is not identified in 15A NCAC 18A.1949, the professional engineer
shall use the applicable industry and manufacturer's standards to calculate
average and peak daily flows and demands, in gallons per day. Approval through
the adequate facilities process outlined in this section shall in no manner
imply approval of required interceptor and collection systems.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.06 TOWN MANAGER; WRITTEN DETERMINATION.
   After completion of the preliminary finding, the Town Manager shall make a
separate written determination that:
   (A)   The application shall be approved because public facilities are at the
adopted level of service;
   (B)   The application shall be denied because public facilities are not at
the adopted level of service;
   (C)   The application shall be approved as to the portion of the development
for which public facilities are available and adequate and shall be approved
subject to the deferral of the remainder of the development until all public
facilities are available and adequate if public facilities in the impact area
are not adequate to meet the adopted level of service for the entire proposed
development, consistent with the requirements of this chapter; or
   (D)   The application shall be approved because the applicant has made an
agreement with the Town Council to construct or secure funding for the
necessary facilities, consistent with the requirements of §
155.11 below.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 155.07 DETERMINATION; APPLICATION.
   A determination of adequate public facilities for an application shall
remain valid until the earlier of:
   (A)   The expiration of the application; or
   (B)    If no expiration period is provided for in the approval of the
application, the determination shall expire upon expiration of the preliminary
plat application.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.08 TABLE OF STANDARDS.
   The following level of service standards shall apply to each applicable
public facility:
Facility (A) Applicability (B) Level of Service Impact Area
Facility (A)     Applicability (B) Level of Service         Impact Area
                                   1 LESU per 1,000
Law Enforcement  All applications  residents1; 7 Police     Town limits
                                   Vehicles
                                   1 full-time M-F Paid
Fire Protection2 All applications  Assistant Chief per      Town service area
                                   5,000 residents3; Fire
                                   station;2; 8 vehicles
EMS1             All applications  1 FTE per 1,600          County-wide
                                   residents4
Community parks  All applications  1 community park per     Town limits
                                   1,000 residents
Planning and     All applications  1 FTE per 5,000          Town limits
inspections                        residents
                                   1 FTE per 2,500
Streets          All applications  residents5; 1 dump       Town limits
                                   truck; 1 leaf machine; 1
                                   tractor
Facility (A)     Applicability (B) Level of Service         Impact Area
                                   4 FTEs per 2,500
                                   customers7; 2
                                   Administrative FTEs;
                                   3,500 gpd; 4 wells with
Water6           All applications  a 920 gpm capacity; 3    Town service area
                                   vehicles; 1 Public Works
                                   Office 2,000 sq.ft.; 1
                                   public works shed 3,000
                                   sq.ft.
                                   3 FTEs per 2,500
                                   customers7; 2
                                   Administrative FTEs per
Wastewater8      All applications  2,500 residents; 4,800   Town service area
                                   gpd; Five lift stations;
                                   3 vehicles; 1 waste
                                   water treatment plant
                                   800,000 gpd capacity
1 Police staff would need to increase by 3 staff members when population
reaches 2,500.
2 EMS and Fire protection are sections that function independently from the
Town; they are operated by the county.
3 Serves 5000 people actual capacity 10,000 before adding one additional full
time staff. No new buildings added until over 10,000. Additional vehicles
must be justified by the need for entire service area not just town corporate
limits.
4 EMS is currently understaffed by 3 FTEs and possibly 5 FTEs depending on
the demographics of the population and call volumes.
5 Streets would require the hire of one new full time employee when
population reaches 2,500
6 Serves 2,200 people recommended capacity is for 4,500 people without
additional wells or other water sources. This would only be pumping wells at
67% capacity.
7 Current water and sewer staff would need to be increased by one FTE each
when population reaches 2,500.
8 Serves 1,500 people recommended capacity is for 464,000 more gallons per
day which would utilize only 70% of available capacity with plant working at
optimal service standards
 
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.09 APPLICABILITY.
   Except as provided in division (D) below, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply only to development proposals submitted on or after the effective
date of this chapter, as follows.
   (A)   Residential uses. This chapter shall apply to major residential
subdivision proposals that involve more than six lots or dwelling units.
   (B)   Nonresidential uses. This chapter shall apply to nonresidential
development proposals that either:
      (1)   Involve 5,000 square feet or more of floor area; or
      (2)   Five hundred or more daily vehicle trips.
   (C)   Consecutive or sequential applications.
      (1)   Proposed developments may not be phased or subdivided in piecemeal
fashion to avoid application of this chapter.
      (2)   Two or more developments represented to be separate developments
shall be aggregated and treated as a single development under this chapter if
the Town Manager or his or her designee determines them to be part of a unified
plan of development and physically proximate to one another, based on the fact
there is unified ownership as indicated by the fact that:
         (a)   The same person has retained or shared control of the
developments;
         (b)   The same person has ownership or a significant legal or
equitable interest in the developments;
         (c)   There is common management of the developments controlling the
form of physical development or disposition of parcels of the development;
         (d)   There is a reasonable closeness in time between the completion
of 80% or less of one development and the submission to the town of a
development proposal for a subsequent development that is indicative of a
common development effort;
         (e)   The voluntary sharing of infrastructure that is indicative of a
common development effort or is designated specifically to accommodate the
developments;
         (f)   There is a common advertising scheme or promotional plan in
effect for the developments; and/or
         (g)   Any information provided by the applicant that the project is
not being phased or subdivided to avoid the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following development project proposals shall be
exempt from complying with the requirements of this chapter.
      (1)   Essential public services. The provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to essential public services.
      (2)   Agricultural and farm uses. Upon determination of the
Administrator, the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any lands or
structures dedicated to bona fide farm purposes.
      (3)   Accessory structure or use. The provisions of this chapter shall
not apply to any development proposal, or portion thereof, that is an accessory
structure or use.
      (4)   Previously-approved development. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to any development proposal that was part of a conditional
zoning plan or subdivision plan submitted prior to the effective date of this
chapter.
      (5)   Vested rights. This section shall not be interpreted or deemed to
affect any rights that have vested prior to the effective date of this chapter,
nor shall any provision of this chapter be applied to a specific property or
applicant in a manner that would result in a taking of a property.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.10 FINAL DETERMINATION OF ADEQUACY.
   (A)   Subject to the requirements of this chapter, a final determination of
adequacy by the Town Manager or his or her designee must be submitted in
conjunction with any development proposal.
   (B)   No development proposal will be accepted by the town unless a final
determination of adequacy is submitted with the application.
      (1)   Requirements for adequate public facilities (APF) application.
         (a)   Prior to submission of an adequate public facilities (APF)
application, the applicant must meet with the Town Manager or his or her
designee to confirm the scope and applicability of this chapter and to identify
potential public facility deficiencies that may need to be mitigated.
         (b)   At or following the pre-submittal meeting, the Town Manager or
his or her designee shall:
            1.   Provide the current APF schedule;
            2.   Identify planned and funded capital improvements that affect
available capacity for the project;
            3.   Provide other relevant and available demand and capacity
information for public facilities; and
            4.   Summarize the scope of the APF application requirements, which
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the information listed in
division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   General APF application requirements. The APF application shall
include:
         (a)   A description of the proposed development, including the type
and amount of each proposed land use;
         (b)   A phasing schedule, as applicable;
         (c)   A description of any past or proposed public facility dedicated,
constructed or funded in order to mitigate the impacts of the proposed
development;
         (d)   A mitigation plan, if applicable, proposing any improvements to
be completed by the applicant; and
         (e)   Other information required by the Administrator in order to
evaluate the APF application and to make a determination of adequacy.
      (3)   Completeness review. Within ten business days of its receipt, the
Manager or his or her designee shall determine whether the APF application is
complete and complies with the submission requirements set forth in division
(B)(2) above. If the APF application is complete and the submission
requirements have been met, the Manager or his or her designee shall provide
copies of the application to responsible agencies and town departments for
review and input regarding available capacity. If the APF application is not
complete, the Administrator will notify the applicant of its deficiencies in
writing within 15 business days of its receipt.
      (4)   Determination of adequacy and allocation of capacity. After
consultation with the responsible agency or town department, the Town Manager
or his or her designee shall determine whether available capacity exists for
each applicable public facility, based on the level of service standards set
forth in §
155.08 above, and the following:
         (a)   The total capital improvements shall be calculated by adding:
            1.   Capacity provided by existing capital improvements, based on
the LOS standards set forth in §
155.08 above; and
            2.   The capacity of any planned capital improvements.
         (b)   The total available capacity shall be calculated by subtracting
from the total capital improvements the sum of:
            1.   Used capacity;
            2.   Committed capacity;
            3.   Reserved capacity;
            4.   Allocated capacity; and
            5.   The demand on public facilities created by the proposed
development.
         (c)   The Manager, or his or her designee's determination of adequacy
shall be reflected in a written report that:
            1.   Identifies existing and planned capital improvements and any
available capacity of public facilities that serve the proposed development,
pursuant to the terms of this chapter;
            2.   Describes capital improvements funded and assumed to be in
place to serve the proposed development;
            3.   Identifies any previously dedicated, constructed or funded
public facility made in order to mitigate the impacts of the proposed
development;
            4.   Sets forth findings and conclusions related to the impact of
the proposed development on available capacity; and
            5.   After consultation with the responsible agency or town
department, states whether there is available capacity for each applicable
public facility sufficient to accommodate the proposed development.
         (d)   Where available capacity exists for each applicable public
facility, the Administrator shall issue a determination of adequacy.
            1.   Upon issuance of a determination of adequacy by the Town
Manager or his or her designee, the Manager or his or her designee shall:
               a.   Notify the applicant in writing within ten business days of
the determination of adequacy and APF allocation; and
               b.   Record the APF allocation on the adequate public facilities
schedule.
            2.   If a determination of adequacy is based on an advanced
facility, the APF allocation and approval of the APF application shall be
conditioned on the timely completion of the advanced facility.
         (e)   Once the Manager has made a determination of adequacy, this
shall be presented to Council at the next regular Council for their approval.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.11 NON-AVAILABILITY OF CAPACITY; MITIGATION PLANS.
   If the Town Manager or his or her designee determines that available
capacity does not exist for a particular public facility and no mitigation plan
has been proposed pursuant to division (B)(3) below, the Town Manager or his or
her designee shall deny the APF application and no determination of adequacy or
APF allocation shall be entered.
   (A)   Upon denial of an APF application, the Town Manager or his or her
designee shall notify the applicant in writing within ten business days of the
denial and shall state the reasons for the denial and any actions that the
applicant may take voluntarily to receive a determination of adequacy.
   (B)   Where there is no available capacity or upon a denial of an APF
application, the applicant may:
      (1)   Submit a development proposal that has a reduced amount of
development for which available capacity exists;
      (2)   Submit a phased development proposal that includes the following:
         (a)   A proposed phasing schedule setting forth the amount, location
and timing of development associated with each proposed phase;
         (b)   The available capacity that will exist for each phase of
development;
         (c)   The advanced facilities that are proposed and the location and
timing of the proposed facilities based on the phasing schedule and mitigation
plan as provided in division (B)(3) below; and
         (d)   Other additional information or materials identified by the Town
Manager or his or her designee as necessary to ensure the timely and adequate
provision of public facilities, based on the level of service standards and
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Propose a mitigation plan, at the applicant's expense, which
provides advanced facilities that would mitigate the proportionate-shared
impacts of the proposed development on public facilities, based on the level of
service standards in §
155.08 above.
   (C)   Should mitigation be required in conjunction with a development
proposal, nothing shall preclude the participation of third-parties (public or
private) in defraying all or a portion of the cost of the mitigation.
   (D)   Any mitigation plan that proposes the provision of advanced facilities
must provide an estimate of the incremental cost of providing the advanced
facilities, a schedule for commencement and completion thereof, and a
description of how the advanced facilities will mitigate the impact of the
proposed development.
   (E)   In order for a mitigation plan to be accepted, it must be approved by
the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.12 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM (CIP) AND APF MONITORING REPORTS.
   (A)   Capital Improvements Program (CIP).
      (1)   The CIP is the mechanism by which the town and its partnering
agencies provide new and expanded public facilities capacity needed to
accommodate anticipated future population and employment at adopted level of
service standards.
      (2)   Through the implementation of CIPs, the town will use all
reasonable means to ensure that the provision of public facilities capacity is
sufficient to accommodate new growth and development, consistent with the
reasonable availability of revenue sources; contributions of capital
improvements; and physical, environmental or topographical constraints on the
expansion of the capacity of public facilities. Standard municipal services
will be based on data from Rural Water, School of Government benchmarking or
other widely accepted standard in the state.
   (B)   Requirements for monitoring and evaluation. The town and/or its
partnering agencies shall maintain a CIP for the public facilities subject to
this Article and shall implement this chapter based on adopted CIPs.
   (C)   Monitoring reports.
      (1)   At the beginning of each fiscal year, the Town Manager or his or
her designee based on information from the responsible Department Head or agent
shall prepare an annual report addressing the following:
         (a)   The available capacity of public facilities;
         (b)   Anticipated increases in residential and nonresidential
development within the town;
         (c)   The current need for any public facilities resulting from
changes in population increase, employment growth or other relevant factors;
         (d)   The development of lots and land uses approved prior to the
effective date of this chapter;
         (e)   Other matters or actions recommended to effectuate the purpose
and intent of this chapter, including any related to demand assumptions, need
factors, level of service standards and other matters recommended by the
Administrator for reconsideration or revision; and
         (f)   The projected financing for any additional capacity resulting
from the factors set forth in divisions (1) through (5) above.
      (2)   The monitoring reports shall be made available to the Town Council
and each agency or department responsible for public facilities.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.13 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   An applicant may seek a variance from the terms of this chapter or appeal a
determination by the Town Manager or other town official or agency, may appeal
to the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.14 APPLICATION SUBMISSION AND REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Step 1: Pre-submittal meeting.
      (1)   Prior to submittal of an APF application, the applicant shall meet
with the APF Administrator to confirm the scope and applicability of the
ordinance, as well as to identify potential public facility deficiencies that
may need to be mitigated.
      (2)   At the pre-submittal meeting, the Administrator shall:
         (a)   Provide the current APF schedule;
         (b)   Identify planned and funded capital improvements that affect
available capacity for the project;
         (c)   Provide other relevant and available demand and capacity
information for public facilities; and
         (d)   Summarize the scope of the APF application requirements, which
shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the information listed in §
155.10(B)(2) above.
   (B)   Step 2: Submittal of APF application in accordance with §
155.10(B)(2) above.
   (C)   Step 3: Determination. Within ten days of receipt of an APF
application, the Administrator shall determine completeness of application.
      (1)   If application is complete, Administrator shall provide copies of
application to responsible agencies and town departments for review.
      (2)   If application is not complete, Administrator shall notify
applicant within 15 days of receipt of application.
   (D)   Step 4: Determination of adequacy (DOA) or determination of no
available capacity (DONAC) by Town Manager or his or her designee, after
consultation with agencies and town departments (goal of 20 working days).
      (1)   Where available capacity exists for each applicable public
facility, sufficient to accommodate the proposed development, the Manager or
his or her designee shall issue a determination of adequacy (DOA) in writing
within ten business days of determination
      (2)   Where no available capacity exists for a particular public
facility, and no mitigation plan has been proposed, the Administrator shall
issue a determination of no available capacity (DONAC), deny the APF
application and notify applicant in writing within 15 business days of denial,
stating the reasons for denial and any actions the applicant may take to
receive a DOA.
      (3)   Where there is no capacity, the applicant may:
         (a)   Submit a development proposal that has a reduced amount of
development for which available capacity exists; and/or
         (b)   Submit a phased development proposal that includes the
following:
            1.   A proposed phasing schedule setting forth the amount, location
and timing of development associated with each proposed phase;
            2.   A showing that available capacity will exist for each phase of
development;
            3.   Where advanced facilities are proposed, the location and
timing of the proposed facilities based on the phasing schedule and mitigation
plan as provided in division (D)(3)(c) below; and
            4.   Other additional information or materials identified by the
Administrator or other town staff as necessary to ensure the timely and
adequate provision of public facilities, based on the level of service
standards and requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   Propose a mitigation plan that provides advanced facilities that
would mitigate the impact of the proposed development on public facilities. Any
mitigation plan that proposes the provision of advanced facilities must provide
an estimate of the incremental cost of providing the advanced facilities, a
schedule for commencement and completion thereof, and a description of how the
advanced facilities will mitigate the impact of the proposed development.
      (4)   In order for a mitigation plan to be accepted, it must be approved
by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 155.15 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
CHAPTER 156: MOUNTAIN AND HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Authority and jurisdiction
   
156.03   Findings
   
156.04   Purpose; intent; objectives
   
156.05   Definitions
   
156.06   Applicability
   
156.07   Exemptions
   
156.08   Permit and plan required
   
156.09   Relationship to other development processes
   
156.10   Relationship to other regulations
   
156.11   Application requirements for all land-disturbing activity other than
that associated with a single-family or two-family dwelling
   
156.12   Application requirements for land-disturbing activity associated with
a single-family or two-family dwelling
   
156.13   Severability
Specific Provisions
   
156.25   All development and other land-disturbing activity
   
156.26   Requirements for roads and driveways
   
156.27   Fire protection
   
156.28   Best management practices
   
156.29   Submission and review of applications
   
156.30   Criteria for approval of applications
   
156.31   Action on application
   
156.32   Variances
   
156.33   Appeal
   
156.34   Procedures for variances and appeals
   
156.35   Administration and enforcement
   
156.36   Amendments
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Town of Columbus
Mountain and Hillside Development Ordinance."
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.02 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   This chapter, enacted in accordance with, and pursuant to the authority
granted by, G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 8 and 19, shall only apply to areas within the
corporate limits of the town and, more particularly, as noted in §
156.06 below.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.03 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The town contains and is bounded on the north and northwest by
mountains and hills, which contain soils that range in depth, including very
thin soils.
   (B)   Land-disturbing activities on high elevation, steep-slope mountain
sides potentially threaten the public health, safety, welfare and economic
progress of the town.
   (C)   The land-disturbing activity has the potential to cause the following:
      (1)   Endanger the quality of surface water by increasing erosion, stream
sedimentation and stormwater runoff;
      (2)   Induce landslides;
      (3)   Adversely affect ground water due to the difficulty of providing
proper sewage disposal and mitigating the potential for rainwater infiltration;
      (4)   Damage the habitat of some species of wildlife (plants and
animals); and
      (5)   Detract from the mountain's scenic and natural beauty, which is
vital to the recreation and tourism industry of the town.
   (D)   The Town Council finds the following.
      (1)   Steep hillsides are inherently unstable.
      (2)   Changes to slopes due to undermining by humans, flowing rivers,
heavy rains, or the focusing of stormwater runoff by human built channels or
storm drain outlets can cause erosion and/or landslides. Soil slips, which
cause avalanche-style failures, as well as slower moving earth flows can occur
on slopes of 20% or greater. Serious erosion can occur on much shallower
slopes; however, steeper slopes are far less forgiving of construction errors
than are shallower slopes.
      (3)   When steeper slopes fail, the failures can have disastrous
consequences. Development can result in the alteration of land surfaces that
can contribute to slope destabilization. Alterations that have the potential to
further the instability of slopes include placing fills on top of marginally
stable slopes, including organic matter such as tree limbs in the fill, cutting
slopes at too steep of an angle, undermining the toe of a slope, redirecting
storm water runoff in a way that artificially concentrates flows onto portions
of the landscape that are not prepared to receive the concentrated flows,
removing vegetation, and adding water to the slope by means of hillside septic
systems or by means of inadequately supplying storm water drainage systems. All
of these factors work together and can cumulatively decrease the stability of
slopes and eventually lead to disaster. Landslides and other slope failures
pose a variety of hazards to both life and property.
      (4)   Hillside development, if unregulated, can take place at the expense
of environmental concerns. Stormwater runoff from humanly altered slopes is
greater in both quantity and velocity than it would be from naturally graded
and vegetated ground. Preserving existing vegetation reduces erosion by
maintaining roots, which increase infiltration and bind soils. Vegetation also
reduces the velocity of raindrops and slows the velocity of surface water flow
by increasing the roughness and/or friction of the ground, thereby increasing
groundwater recharge. Constructing hillside roads involves cuts in the upslope
side and fill in the down slope side. Such cuts and fills are often much wider
than the minimum required road right-of-way and can be more susceptible to
failure.
      (5)   Hillsides and ridge lines are unique vegetation communities and
wildlife habitats. Hillsides in developing areas are often the last remaining
natural areas and are the final refuges for many species of wildlife.
Development needs to be sensitive to the hillside's function of providing
biodiversity.
      (6)   Hillsides have aesthetic value to the town and its surrounding
areas and contribute to the community's sense of identity, as well as its
tourism economy. Prominent mountains, peaks, hills and ridges have significance
as identifiable landmarks to area residents. Hillside development, if
unregulated, can take place at the expense of aesthetic concerns. Hills and
ridges are highly visible from surrounding areas.
      (7)   Vegetation clearances and landform grading practices, if
unregulated, can upset the natural shape of hills. The bulk, shape, height and
color of buildings can contrast with the natural landscape if unregulated and
thus intrude on the natural character of the landform. Regulations are needed
to ensure that buildings and structures blend in with the natural environment
through their placement on the land, shape, materials and colors.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.04 PURPOSE; INTENT; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide development regulations
applicable to mountains, hillsides and ridge tops to ensure that development
occurs in the following manner:
      (1)   Protects the natural conditions and respects existing topography;
      (2)   Prevents inappropriate development;
      (3)   Preserves the aesthetic and scenic qualities of the areas; and
      (4)   Ensures the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter are intended to prevent developments
that will erode hillsides, result in sedimentation of lower slopes and bodies
of water, cause damage from landslides or create the potential for damage from
landslides, flood downhill properties, or result in the severe cutting of trees
or the scarring of the landscape.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to encourage a sensitive form of
development and to allow for a reasonable use that complements the natural and
visual character of the community. These purposes cannot be met fully with
existing development regulations such as subdivision, zoning, and flood damage
prevention. This chapter shall be considered the minimum necessary to attain
these purposes. These regulations are also intended to encourage the
application of principles of landscape architecture, architecture, planning and
civil engineering to preserve the appearance and protect the resources of
mountains and hills.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING AND GRADING ENVELOPE (BGE). The limits of disturbance affected by
the establishment of a building and grounds. All buildings, walls, lawns, site
amenities and associated disturbance from construction activity shall be
confined within this zone. The BGE may be sited in one mass or apportioned into
several smaller compounds connected by walks or drives. Driveways are not
included in the overall BGE, but parking areas and garages are.
   DIRECTOR. The Town Zoning Administrator or his or her designee.
   EXCAVATION. A land-disturbing activity involving the mechanical removal of
earth material.
   FILLING. A land-disturbing activity involving the placement of fill
material, including the temporary stockpiling of fill material.
   FILL MATERIAL. A deposit of earth or other natural or man-made material
placed by artificial means.
   GRADING. Any scraping, excavating or filling of the Earth's surface or
combination thereof.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste which has been defined as a hazardous waste in
regulations promulgated by the administrator of the United States Environment
Protection Agency,
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any grading of land, any clearing of vegetation,
and any construction or rebuilding of a building or structure. This term shall
not include activities such as ordinary maintenance and landscaping operations,
individual home gardens, the upkeep of yard and grounds, repairs and the
cutting of firewood for personal use.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot included within a plat which has been recorded in the
office of the register of deeds of Polk County or a lot described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING. A structure that contains multiple dwelling units.
   NATURAL GROUND SURFACE. The ground surface in its original state before any
land-disturbing activity.
   PROTECTED MOUNTAIN RIDGES. All mountain ridges whose elevation is at least
1,500 feet and whose elevation is 400 feet or more above the elevation of an
adjacent valley floor.
   QUADRANGLE MAP. The most recently published U.S. Geological Survey 7.5-
minute topographic map prepared at a scale of one:24,000.
   REFORESTATION PLAN. A plan, prepared by a registered forester, for replacing
harvested timber by replanting or by natural regenerative processes (such as
coppicing, seed trees and the like), consistent with recommended best
management practices for forestry in the state.
   SENSITIVE NATURAL AREA. Any area, which is sensitive or vulnerable to
physical or biological alteration, as identified now or hereafter by the State
Natural Heritage Program and which contains one or more of the following:
      (1)   Habitat, including nesting sites, occupied by rare or endangered
species;
      (2)   Rare or exemplary natural communities;
      (3)   Significant landforms, hydroforms or other geologic features; or
      (4)   Other areas so designated by the State Natural Heritage Program,
which are sensitive or vulnerable to physical or biological alteration.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling structure that is designed for the use of
one family. For purposes of this chapter only, the term includes manufactured
homes.
   SLOPE. An inclined earth surface, the inclination of which is expressed as
the ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance. In this chapter, slopes
are generally expressed as a percentage ,-percentage of slope refers to a given
rise in elevation over a given run distance. A 50% slope, for example, refers
to a 100 foot rise in elevation over a distance of 200 feet. A 50% slope is
expressed in engineering terms as a two:one slope.
   SLOPE DISTRICT. An area of land within a tract that is proposed to be
developed that is no greater than 20 acres in size, for which an average slope
shall be computed in order to certify compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. These districts shall be contiguous with one another and the
boundaries of such shall coincide with proposed lot and open space boundaries.
   UNDISTURBED. The natural ground surface remains in its natural state; no
land-disturbing activity occurs; no vegetation is removed, except as exempted
by this chapter; and no impervious surface is constructed thereon.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.06 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to any subdivision plat, master subdivision plan,
Planned Unit Development, land-disturbing activity permit, building permit or
any other development proposal on property situated on a protected mountain
ridge, as defined herein, or for which the average slope, as determined by §
156.25(N) below, is 20% or greater. This chapter shall apply, and the Director
shall apply and enforce the provisions of this chapter, to the earliest
application for development for building approval required of the applicant.
When an application for preliminary subdivision plat, master subdivision plan,
Planned Unit Development, or preliminary development plan as may be required by
other provisions of this code of ordinances, land-disturbing activity or a
building permit pertaining to property regulated by this chapter is filed, the
application shall be required to demonstrate compliance with applicable
provisions of this chapter, unless compliance has already been satisfactorily
demonstrated by prior application and approval as determined by the Director.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses or activities are exempt from the requirements of
this chapter provided they comply with any limitations or conditions specified
herein.
   (A)   Agriculture and forestry. Agriculture and forestry on protected
mountains, provided those uses or activities, including associated roads, are
consistent with the best management practices established by the State Division
of Forest Resources or the State Natural Resources Conservation Service,
consistent with all state and federal laws, and all applicable regulations
promulgated by the state. Logging roads shall be reclaimed in accordance with
practices of the Division of Forest Resources when they are no longer in
service.
   (B)   Landscape maintenance. Landscape maintenance activities, including the
removal of diseased, dead or damaged trees may be carried out; provided,
however, that those activities shall be carried out in conformance with
applicable regulations of this and other applicable ordinances.
   (C)   Additions to single-family dwellings or two-family dwellings.
      (1)   On lots of record with existing single-family dwellings or two-
family dwellings that were approved prior to the effective date of this
chapter, the existing single-family dwellings or two-family dwellings may be
expanded without demonstrating compliance with this chapter, provided that the
height of the building addition does not exceed the height limitation contained
in §
156.25(G) below, no more than minimal land disturbance is required to
accomplish the building addition, and the building addition is in conformity
with the purposes and intent and consistent with regulations and guidelines of
this chapter as determined by the Director.
      (2)   Existing lots of record shall not be exempt from the requirements
of this chapter. However, if a lot of record, existing at the time of adoption
of this chapter, is rendered unbuildable or unusable due to the standards
contained herein, then the requirements within this chapter may be relaxed to
the minimum extent necessary to render the subject lot usable. The relaxation
of applicable requirements of this chapter shall be at the discretion of the
approving administrator, board or council, whichever has the authority to grant
final approval of the subject development proposal.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.08 PERMIT AND PLAN REQUIRED.
   No preliminary subdivision plat, master subdivision plan, planned unit
development, preliminary development plan, as may be required by other
provisions of the ordinances of the town, land-disturbing activity permit, or
building permit shall be issued by the Director or other administrative
official of the town for any land-disturbing activity , land use, building, or
structure on property subject to the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the
activity, land use, building or structure conforms to the requirements of this
chapter. All development activities or site work conducted after approval of
the site plan shall conform to the specifications of the site plan as approved
by the Director. The Director or his or her designee shall have the authority
to inspect property developed under these regulations to ensure compliance
therewith.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.09 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER DEVELOPMENT PROCESSES.
   Prior to any land-disturbing activity permit, development approval or
building permit being issued, the Director shall require a site plan in
sufficient detail to review the proposed development for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter. The application requirements of this chapter hereof
shall apply in addition to the submission requirements for subdivision plats,
master subdivision plans, planned unit developments, preliminary development
plans, land-disturbing activity permits, and building permits as specified in
other ordinances or regulations of the town, as applicable. The Director shall
determine if the application provides the information required by this chapter
and shall refuse to process any such application that does not contain the
information required for an application for development approval, subdivision,
land-disturbing activity or building and for a permit under the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.10 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to modify or exempt development
from applicable requirements of the state and other ordinances and/or
regulations of the town, including but not limited to the following.
   (A)   Land disturbance. Proposed land-disturbing activity shall meet all
applicable state standards and any other applicable regulations of the town.
The provisions of this chapter may be more restrictive and may require the
submission of plans and a permit which may not be required by the land
disturbance and soil erosion requirements.
   (B)   Septic tanks. Where one or more septic tanks are to be used for
individual sewage disposal, the proposed land-disturbing activity shall meet
all state standards and all applicable regulations of the county as well as any
standards set forth by the town relating to septic tanks.
   (C)   Sewage disposal. If sewage is to be provided by any means other than
one or more individual septic tanks, the sewage treatment shall meet all
applicable state standards and all applicable regulations of Polk County and
all applicable regulations of the town relating to sewage disposal.
   (D)   Individual wells. Where one or more wells are to be used for a potable
water supply, the proposed land-disturbing activity shall meet all applicable
regulations of the state, the county and the town relating to water wells.
   (E)   Water systems. If a public water supply system is to be provided, the
water supply system shall meet all applicable standards and regulations of the
state and the town.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.11 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY OTHER THAN
THAT ASSOCIATED WITH A SINGLE-FAMILY OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
   (A)   The information described in division (C) below, shall be submitted as
part of the first town application requirement encountered by the applicant,
including, without limitation, approval of a preliminary subdivision plat, a
phased subdivision master plan, permit for land-disturbing activity,
development plan approval or permit for a building, road or driveway for
anything other than a single-family dwelling or two-family dwelling.
   (B)   Family subdivisions, two-lot subdivisions, and any other subdivision
of land that may be exempt as defined in §
153.26(B)(1) through (4) are excused from submitting a soils report, a
hydrological report and plan, and a geotechnical analysis and plan; provided,
however, if the subdivision is excused from the requirements, the plat shall
contain, in a prominent location and of a prominent size, the following note:
"This subdivision is located in an area of steep slopes as determined by the
town. Steep slopes are inherently unstable and may be subject to severe erosion
or landslides. No soils, hydrological or geotechnical analyses or reports have
been prepared for this subdivision to determine the suitability of the lots
contained herein for development."
   (C)   Once a topographic survey, as defined in division (C)(1) below, is
performed for a slope district, and the slope is found to be greater than 20%,
but less than 30%, then the application requirements for that slope district
shall comply with §
156.12(D)(2) below. If the slope for the given slope district is found to be at
or above 30%, then all of the following information must be submitted for the
slope district. This division (C) shall not prevent the submission of one
analysis or report for multiple slope districts. (See §
156.25(N) below for more details concerning slope calculations and
submissions).
      (1)   Topographic survey. A topographic survey of the project site shall
be required for preliminary subdivision plat approval. Notes and details of
existing terrain shall be included in the required topographic information. A
topographic survey may be required by the Director for any other application
for land-disturbing activity or building approval where reliable data on
existing topography including town and/or county GIS maps or other topographic
maps which may be available do not provide sufficient detail to administer the
requirements of this chapter. The topographic survey, if required by this
section or by the Director pursuant to this section, shall provide contour
intervals of no more than two feet unless otherwise approved by the Director.
      (2)   Certification of maximum structure height. Plans submitted with an
application for a building permit shall contain a certification that the
maximum height of any proposed structure complies with the height restrictions
contained in this chapter.
      (3)   Soils report. This report shall include conclusions and
recommendations regarding the effect of soil conditions on the proposed
development. This report shall be prepared by a registered professional
engineer, soil scientist, engineering geologist or other qualified professional
approved by the Director. The report may use the soil survey prepared and
published by the Natural Resources Conservation Service for the county, as its
basis, although site specific soil tests may be required at the discretion of
the Director.
      (4)   Hydrology report and plan. This report shall include a complete
description of the hydrology of the site, conclusions and recommendations
regarding the effect of hydrological conditions on the proposed development,
and the capacity of the site to be developed. Hydrology reports shall be
completed by a registered professional engineer experienced and knowledgeable
in the practice of hydrology, or other qualified professional approved by the
Director. A hydrological control plan, prepared by a professional engineer
experienced and knowledgeable in the practice of hydrology, or other qualified
professional approved by the Director, shall also be required. At a minimum the
plan shall show and take into account the direction of flow within the local
drainage basin; all natural drainage channels directed toward and away from the
site within 50 feet of the perimeter of the site, and other natural drainage
ways which may affect or be affected by the development proposal. Field
verification of existing drainage channels shall be required as there has not
been a comprehensive survey of streams in the United States and therefore many
available maps underestimate the presence of headwater streams. Alterations of
natural drainage ways shall be prohibited except for approved road crossings
and drainage structures. Natural drainage shall be rip-rapped or otherwise
stabilized below drainage and culvert discharge points for a distance
sufficient to convey the discharge without channel erosion. Special notations
shall be included which highlight details of the terrain, existing natural
surface drainage and areas subject to seepage or spring flow.
      (5)   Geotechnical analysis and report. This analysis and report shall
address the existing geology, topographic and hydrological conditions of the
site, including an evaluation of the ability of the site to accommodate the
proposed activity. The analysis and report shall contain a professional opinion
regarding the slope stability, soil bearing capacity, the potential for
landslide or other geological hazards and their potential impact on structures
or surrounding properties, and any other pertinent information. The
geotechnical report and analysis shall also contain a recommendation regarding
foundation design, cut or fill slope design, soil bearing potential, and
building restrictions or setbacks, such as are necessary to satisfy the intent
of this chapter and to protect the public health, safety and welfare. Upon
completion of all improvements shown on approved plans but prior to the
issuance of any final approval of improvements by the town, the applicant shall
submit a declaration by the geotechnical engineer or engineering geologist that
all work was done in substantial accordance with the recommendations contained
in the geotechnical analysis and report as approved and in accordance with
approved plans.
      (6)   Assessment. Applications for preliminary and final plat approval
for maj or and minor subdivisions (including multi-phased maj or subdivisions)
shall be accompanied by a written assessment addressing the environmental,
scenigraphic, and public safety impacts of the effect that the project will
have on the environment of the mountain or hill after the project has been
completed and is in operation.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.12 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY ASSOCIATED WITH
A SINGLE-FAMILY OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLING.
   (A)   For land-disturbing activity associated with development of a single-
family dwelling or a two-family dwelling, a plot plan of the lot or site on
which the building is to be located shall be submitted to the building
inspector for review and approval by the Director.
   (B)   The plot plan shall be prepared by a registered surveyor, professional
civil engineer, or other qualified professional approved by the Director and
shall show the finished floor elevation of the building in relation to the
natural ground surface and in relation to the uppermost point of the crest,
summit or ridge top of the mountain or hill on which the building is
constructed.
   (C)   The plot plan shall also indicate the limits of the area to be
disturbed and the slope of the buildable area. Areas proposed or required to
remain undisturbed shall be marked on the plot plan and in the field with tape,
orange plastic fencing, or other approved marker until a certificate of
occupancy is issued or as otherwise approved by the Director.
   (D)   The following additional information shall be submitted along with the
plot plan.
      (1)   Level I requirements. Every application for authorization to
undertake land disturbing activities associated with development of a single-
family dwelling or two-family dwelling within a subdivision that was previously
approved under the provisions of this chapter shall contain a topographic
survey and/or analysis as outlined in §
156.11(C)(1) above.
      (2)   Level II requirements. Every application for authorization to
undertake land disturbing activities associated with development of a single-
family dwelling or two-family dwelling not within a subdivision that was
previously approved under the conditions of this chapter shall contain a
topographic survey of the lot with contour intervals of no more than two feet
and a certification of maximum structure height as per §
156.11(C)(1) and (2) above. An analysis of the county soils map shall accompany
the application. If the soils map indicates the presence of problematic soils
or the topographic survey indicates that the average slope of the proposed
building and grading envelope is greater than 30%, then the application
requirements found in division (D)(3) below shall apply.
      (3)   Level III requirements.
         (a)   Level III requirements apply to any application to develop a
single-family dwelling or two-family dwelling where:
            1.   The soils report confirms the presence of problematic soil
types; and/or
            2.   The natural slope of the proposed building and grading
envelope equals or exceeds 30%.
         (b)   In addition to the topographic survey and certification of
maximum building height required in division (D)(2) above, level III
applications shall also contain the following information:
            1.   A soils report meeting the requirements of §
156.11(C)(3) above, if one has not already been provided;
            2.   A hydrological report and plan meeting the requirements of §
156.11(C)(4) above; and
            3.   A geotechnical analysis and report meeting the requirements of
§
156.11(C)(5) above.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 156.25 ALL DEVELOPMENT AND OTHER LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY.
   The following minimum standards shall apply to earth moving and land-
disturbing activity which is not otherwise exempt.
   (A)   Minimum alterations. Earth moving shall be limited to the minimum
required for building foundations, driveways and drainage control structures,
and immediate areas surrounding the building, structure, road, driveway or
drainage structure required by this chapter. With the exception of approved
stockpiling or restoration efforts, substantial earth moving beyond that which
is required for the installation or construction of approved buildings,
structures, driveways, roads or drainage structures shall not be permitted.
   (B)   Cut and fill. Unless otherwise specifically approved by the Director
and a registered professional engineer, cut slopes shall be no steeper than one
foot horizontal to one foot vertical (one:one) and fill slopes shall not be
steeper than one-and-one-half feet horizontal to one foot vertical, except in
circumstances where stable exposed rock is the intended end result of the
manufactured slope and/or when sufficient evaluation is provided to support
stabilization by a professional engineer registered in the state. Manufactured
slopes exceeding 35 feet in height shall be benched at 35-foot intervals.
Reforestation of manufactured slopes other than stable exposed rock shall
consist of the placement of native species in a plan prepared by a professional
landscape architect or arborist familiar with steep slopes and stabilization
requirements. A maintenance plan shall be required for reforestation areas and
the plan shall include provisions for replacement of dead vegetation when
greater than a 30% mortality rate occurs.
   (C)   Compaction of fill. All fill shall be stabilized in conformance with
generally accepted engineering standards, including a compacted density of at
least 95%. Vegetation which has been cut or cleared shall be removed from the
site and shall not be covered by, or imbedded in, fill material. Extra care
shall be taken in removing the woody and/or vegetative debris from fill
materials, as it has been found and shown by the State Geological Survey that
the material can increase the probability of slope destabilization and lead to
such events as an embankment failure or other such earth moving phenomenon. The
Director may require certification of compaction by a qualified professional if
necessary to determine compliance with this section.
   (D)   Control of stormwater runoff. Runoff from concentrated impervious
surfaces shall be collected and transported in a pipe or other approved manner
to an approved storm water system if available, or if unavailable, to the
bottom of the drainage way or other location specified by the Director and/or a
registered professional engineer and in a safe, adequate, and non-erosive
manner. Where required by other ordinances or regulations or by an engineer,
storm water retention facilities shall be installed. Where required,
interceptor ditches shall be established above steep slopes in such a way as
not to avoid saturation or erosion of soil, and intercepted water shall be
conveyed in a pipe or other manner to the bottom of the drainage way or other
location specified by an engineer. The overall drainage system shall be
completed and made operational at the earliest possible time during
construction. The proposed storm water control system shall utilize the
principles and recommendations of the State Department of Environment and
Natural Resources Stormwater Best Management Practices ("BMPs") Manual.
Specifically, the methods of storm water management chosen, shall take into
account the compatibility of the method with steeper slopes, applicable depth
to the water table, soils present and the expected amount of sediment. Careful
control of stormwater runoff and other surface waters is critical for the
stability of steeply sloped lands. Marginally stable land can be rendered
unstable by the increased pore pressure due to infiltrating water. So, while it
is encouraged to retain and help storm water infiltrate the ground on site, it
is important that proper analyses show the proper location on a site for that
infiltration to take place. As a general rule of thumb, when an entire site is
comprised of steeper slopes, it may be necessary to use a variety of smaller
BMPs to fit the contours of the subject site. For proposed developments that
are governed by this chapter, a comprehensive storm water management plan shall
accompany the submitted application. The proposed method of managing storm
water shall utilize appropriate site specific mitigation and structural
practices to effectively provide no net increase in storm water runoff versus
pre-development conditions.
   (E)   Stream and wetlands protection. It is recognized that areas of steep
terrain produce higher amounts of storm water runoff at higher velocities.
Development on those areas will only contribute to that trend. The direct
discharge of the storm water to local drainage ways and wetlands can have
significant negative effects on the quality of the waters within the drainage
way or wetlands and the diversity of wildlife that the areas can sustain. While
efforts are to be made to properly control and manage the runoff, there is no
substitute to a stream's or wetland's health for the role of a riparian buffer.
As such, a riparian buffer shall be provided by the developer and/or protected
by the developer for all perennial and intermittent streams and wetlands. The
buffers shall extend a minimum of 50 feet from the center line of a stream and
50 feet from the edge of any wetlands areas. See the below figure: All required
riparian buffers shall be included as common areas within a development,
instead of being included within the boundaries of individual lots. No land-
disturbing activity may take place within the required stream or wetlands
buffer except for approved street crossings. However, an encroachment into the
required stream or wetlands buffer may be allowed at the discretion of the Town
Council. The Town Council shall take into account the recommendation of town's
staff in granting or denying an encroachment. There are multiple examples of
when such an encroachment might be granted. For example in certain instances
the allowance of a roadway within the buffer zone may prevent large cut and
fill and tree clearing operations further uphill of the stream or wetlands,
especially if logging roads or some other pre-defined path exists within the
prescribed stream or wetlands buffer. In such a case, the allowance of an
encroachment may do more to protect the health of the stream or wetlands than
adhering to the prescribed buffer requirement contained herein. The siting of a
stormwater management facility may be optimal within a stream buffer due to
soil conditions, slope conditions, the necessity to treat stormwater runoff
before the runoff enters the applicable stream or wetlands, or some other
characteristics. In this case, it may be more appropriate to allow an
encroachment of the required stream buffer as well. In order for such an
allowance to be granted, the applicant shall demonstrate to the Town Council
that such an encroachment will be within the intent of this §
156.26(E) below, and will benefit the stream's health more so than strict
adherence to the prescribed stream buffer requirement. In the case where
impervious surface is allowed within the stream buffer, the impervious surfaces
shall not count towards the buffer width and so additional width shall be added
to the buffer in order to comply with this division (E). All proposed ponds
and/or lakes shall be built outside of stream channels. When built in-line
(within stream channels) , ponds and lakes pose many negative impacts to local
streams.
   (F)   View-sheds. It is recognized that the scenic and aesthetic qualities
of the mountains and hillsides in this region play an important role in the
economy and the quality of life for residents within the community. As such,
whenever a building is to be constructed which is governed by this chapter, its
building and grading envelope shall be sited so that the structure to be placed
thereon shall not be readily visible from public rights-of-way or public lands,
the elevation of which is equal to or less than the structure. This may be
accomplished through natural terrain, existing vegetation, or some other means
consistent with accepted industry standards and approved by the Director. Views
of the surrounding mountains from prominent state roads, such as N.C. 108,
which generate significant amounts of traffic, shall especially be considered.
   (G)   Building height. The height of any building shall not extend closer
than 50 feet to the uppermost point of any protected mountain ridge, as that
term is defined herein, on which the building is constructed. Nor shall any
building be constructed closer than 20 feet to the shoulder of any protected
mountain ridge. See §
156.28(R) for more information on construction near and around the shoulder of
a ridge). For the purposes of this chapter, the uppermost point of the crest,
summit or ridge top refers to geological formations and not vegetation. Items,
such as chimneys, flues, flag poles and wires may be allowed to extend to
within the 50-foot setback only at the Director's discretion.
   (H)   Disturbance limits. No more than 20 acres may be disturbed at one time
throughout the course of a development. If 20 acres is currently being
disturbed, then all or a portion of that 20 acres must be re-stabilized before
continuation of the project to other land disturbing activities within the
tract.
   (I)   Impact on neighboring properties. Any negative externalities generated
by a development shall be remedied at the expense of the party(ies) financially
responsible for the development. As an example, if a stream is polluted by
sediment washing off of a development, then the party responsible for creating
the erosion shall incur the cost of repairing the stream. If such a situation
arises, then the final plat of a development or phase of development shall not
be approved until a written plan of remediation has been submitted to the town
and corrective work has commenced. Depending on the scope of the repair work, a
monetary surety of completion may be required.
   (J)   Realignment of streams. Realignment of streams and natural drainage
channels shall not be permitted except for the purpose of affecting a stream
crossing and only as specifically approved by the Director upon issuance of all
necessary state and federal permits. In such cases, natural or typical flow of
surface or subsurface water shall not be altered or obstructed in any way by
grade changes if the alteration may adversely affect the property of another by
either contributing to pooling or collection of waters, the increased
deposition of sediment into neighboring waterways and/or lands, or to the
concentration or intensification of surface water discharge.
   (K)   Impervious surface limits. Development on lands that are subject to
this chapter shall meet the impervious surface and grading requirements shown
in the table below.
 
Average Slope of Land to be Maximum Amount of Grading Maximum Amount of
Developed or Subdivided                               Impervious Surface
20% - 25%                   50%                       10%
26% - 30%                   40%                       8%
31% - 35%                   20%                       4%
36% - 40%                   10%                       2%
> 40%                       5%                        1%
NOTE: These grading requirements shall not be construed to allow a violation
of the town land Clearing, Grading and Tree Protection Ordinance.
 
   (L)   Density limits.
      (1)   Development on lands that are subject to this chapter shall meet
the density requirements shown in the appropriate table below.
 
Maximum Density for Developments with Public Water and Sewer Systems
Average Slope of Land to be Developed or Maximum Density (Lots per Acre)
Subdivided
20% - 25%                                0 . 50
26% - 30%                                0 .33
31% - 35%                                0 .20
36% - 40%                                0 . 13
>40%                                     0 .08
 
 
Maximum Density for Developments with Private Water or Single Family
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems, But Not Both
Average Slope of Land to be Developed or Maximum Density (Lots per Acre)
Subdivided
20% - 25%                                0.40
26% - 30%                                0 . 24
31% - 35%                                0 .13
36% - 40%                                0 . 07
>40%                                     0 . 05
 
 
Maximum Density for Developments with Private Water and Single Family
Wastewater Treatment and Disposal Systems
Average Slope of Land to be Developed or Maximum Density (Lots per Acre)
Subdivided
20% - 25%                                0 .25
26% - 30%                                0 . 14
31% - 35%                                0 . 08
36% - 40%                                0.05
>40%                                     0.04
 
      (2)   Whenever a conflict arises in the allowable density of a
development or minimum lot size as determined by this Mountain and Hillside
Development Ordinance, the town Zoning Ordinance, or the town Subdivision
Ordinance, the more restrictive regulation shall apply.
   (M)   Recognition. Developers that undertake exemplary developments that
provide housing and/or commercial opportunities to the town while protecting
view-sheds, avoiding habitat fragmentation, and protecting water quality shall
be recognized as good stewards of the region's resources. It is the intent of
this division to promote quality development and careful site design.
Therefore, those that utilize the practices shall be granted a certificate from
the town attesting to the quality of such a developer's work. Recognition of
the developer's integrity and quality will also be posted on the town's
official web site. Both the certificate and the web site posting may be used
for the purposes of marketing the developer's services.
   (N)   Determining slope. The following shall offer guidance and procedure
for the purposes of calculating slopes for parcels, tracts and/or slope
districts.
      (1)   Prior to commencing any development or land-disturbing activity and
prior to making application for any permits and/or other approvals, the
calculated average slope for a particular land tract shall be approved by the
Director. Average slope calculations and supporting documentation shall be
submitted to the Director for review. Within ten days of receipt, the Director
shall: request additional information; request revisions to the average slope
calculation submittal; or issue written concurrence with the determination of
average slope, as submitted.
      (2)   It is recognized that one average slope calculation may not be
suitable for analyzing larger tracts of land that are proposed to be developed.
As such, tracts of land that are proposed to be developed and are greater in
size than 20 acres shall be broken down into smaller divisions. These smaller
divisions of land shall be referred to as slope districts. When an application
is submitted for a land-disturbing activity regarding a project that is greater
than 20 acres, the submitted slope calculations shall be for each created slope
district. The applicant may arrange these slope districts in a manner suitable
to him or her so long as any given slope district does not exceed 20 acres in
size, the borders are contiguous with one another, and the borders coincide
with proposed lot lines, the tract boundary, or the boundary of any delineated
open space area. The slope districts shall exclude any areas proposed to be
dedicated open space. For each slope district:
         (a)   Calculate each slope district's percent slope according to §
156.25(N)(7) below;
         (b)   Find each district' s corresponding percent impervious surface,
density and grading limits based on the calculated slope in accordance with the
tables found in divisions (K) and (L) above;
         (c)   For each requirement (i.e. density, grading and impervious
surface) multiply the result of (ii) above by the number of acres within the
slope district. This will give the actual amount of impervious surface, grading
and lots allowed per slope district; and
         (d)   Add the outcomes of division (c) above, for each slope district
together. This will give the total limit for each requirement (i.e. density,
grading and impervious surface) for the entire site.
      (3)   Each slope calculation submitted to the Director for review shall
include a scaled map, accurately showing (a) topography for the entire land
tract, (b) a closed perimeter line delineating a single area proposed for the
occurrence of any type(s) of land-disturbing activity , (c) the deeded land
tract boundary, and (d) the boundaries of any slope districts. The accuracy and
detail of the map shall be acceptable to the Director for site specific
conditions and the particular land disturbing activities proposed.
      (4)   Tracts of land greater than 20 acres. When a tract of land is
proposed for any type of land-disturbing activity and the subject tract of land
is greater than 20 acres, the applicant shall divide the tract into slope
districts. The submitted slope calculation shall contain an average slope for
each slope district.
      (5)   Tracts of land equal to or less than 20 acres. When a tract of land
is proposed to be developed and is less than or equal to 20 acres in size, an
average slope calculation shall be submitted for the entire tract.
      (6)   Single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings. The slope
calculation submitted with an application for the construction of a single-
family or two-family dwelling project only needs to incorporate the areas of
land within the proposed building and grading envelope.
      (7)   Slope calculation preparation. The submitted slope calculation
shall be prepared by a professional land surveyor, engineer, architect or other
approved professional that is registered in the state. If such a professional
does not prepare the submitted calculation, then the town's Planning Department
shall keep a slope database in its GIS system and shall use the highest slope
contained within the proposed tract of land to determine the slope of the tract
for the purposes of administering the regulations contained within this
chapter.
      (8)   Slope calculation submittal. When a slope calculation is submitted,
the methodology used by the approved professional, responsible for creating the
calculation shall be submitted as part of that slope calculation submittal.
   (O)   Hazardous waste facilities. Handling areas for the receiving and
storage of hazardous waste or solid waste disposal facilities are prohibited in
areas regulated by this chapter.
   (P)   Mining. Mining activity which requires a new permit from the State
Department of Environment and Natural Resources shall be prohibited in the
areas regulated by this chapter. Expansion of an existing mining activity that
would require a permit modification from the North Carolina Department of
Environment and Natural Resources shall be prohibited in the areas regulated by
this chapter.
   (Q)   Antennas and towers. Water, radio, television, cell or other towers
shall not extend more than 40 feet, as measured from the highest point at which
the foundation of the structure intersects the natural ground surface, above
the uppermost point of the crest, summit, or ridge top of the protected
mountain on which the structure is constructed.
   (R)   Division of area. Where there is a drastic variation in the landform
character within one site, the site may be divided into several distinct areas
for the purposes of slope determination. This division must be approved by the
Director. Generally, this provision shall only be used in cases where large
tracts of property encompass flat land as well as significant mountain and
hillside terrain. Details for each division must be provided.
   (S)   Landslide hazard advisory. The following statement shall be recorded
on the final plat with the Polk County register of deeds for any lot created
whose surface slope is equal to or greater than 20%: "While landslides and
other slope moving events have occurred as a result of less precipitation,
storm events that produce five inches of rainfall during a 24-hour period
significantly increase the risk of landslides on areas of 20% slope or more.
Slopes that have been modified with excavations, embankments, and/or structures
are at higher risk of earth movement than unmodified/natural slopes."
   (T)   Lot design. All water supply sources and conveyance systems and all
wastewater conveyance, treatment, disposal and reuse systems, if any, shall be
sited prior to or in conjunction with lot layout in order to ensure adequate
space is provided for each system. While this is preferred for all
developments, it is especially important to consider well and septic
considerations on steeper terrain as such topography will usually mandate the
provision of greater space for each system.
   (U)   Ground water monitoring. Developments regulated by this Mountain and
Hillside Development Ordinance that propose to use groundwater for any reason,
to include non-potable uses, shall initiate a well monitoring program. The
program shall provide for the monitoring of all wells on site at a minimum of
once every three years. A site specific groundwater monitoring plan shall be
described in detail and shall be submitted as part of the hydro-geological
report required by §
156.11(C)(4). The groundwater monitoring plan shall include the monitoring of
ground water levels as well as those regulated and unregulated contaminants
defined by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the State Department
of Environment and Natural Resources' Public Water Supply Section. A
groundwater monitoring plan shall not be required if the proposed development
is not proposed to extract more groundwater than 6,000 gallons per day (four
gallons per minute).
   (V)   Conservation design. All subdivisions regulated by this chapter shall
utilize the town Subdivision Ordinance's clustering option. The clustering of
structures shall be located on flatter and less sensitive lands, while
preserving steep, more sensitive, and more fragile lands as open space.
   (W)   Golf courses. No development regulated by this chapter shall be
provided with a golf course.
   (X)   Grading contractor selection. The grading contractor selected to work
within a development governed by this chapter shall have either completed an
accredited formal certification program or have completed the Clear Water
Contractor© program. A list of grading contractors that have completed the
Clear Water Contractor© program since 1999 can be found at
www.themayberrygroup.org.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.26 REQUIREMENTS FOR ROADS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   No new public road, private road or driveway, including undeveloped lots of
record, shall be permitted or constructed unless it complies with the
appropriate requirements of the Town Subdivision Ordinance and this section.
   (A)   All new public and private roads and driveways shall be designed and
constructed to minimize the potential for landslides, erosion and runoff.
   (B)   Roads and driveways shall be located such that the maximum number of
existing trees on the site is preserved.
   (C)   Roads and driveways shall be designed to create the minimum feasible
amounts of land coverage and the minimum feasible disturbance of the soil.
Variations in road design and road construction specified by the town in its
subdivision ordinance regulations shall be permitted, as may be approved by the
town, to prevent the dedication of unnecessarily large amounts of land to the
roads or driveways. One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where
appropriate for the terrain and where public safety would not be jeopardized in
the opinion of the town. For instance, a two-way road may have the directions
of flow split into one-way pairs that differ in elevation, circumnavigate
difficult terrain, or avoid tree clearance.
   (D)   While it is a benefit to the environment and the natural world to
allow for narrower road widths and steeper road slopes, it is also recognized
by the town that minimum standards for access drives are designed to provide
emergency responders the ability to protect residents and their respective
structures. So, while variations to the town's and the state's street standards
will be heard and considered, the input from the Town Fire Department and the
Polk County EMS will be collected. The applicant for any project that is to be
governed by this chapter wherein new streets are proposed to be built shall
hold a preliminary conference with appropriate emergency response personnel to
discuss the proposed provisions of access. It shall be considered by both
parties that in these cases, care of the environment and care of safety issues
may be conflicting issues and so compromises shall be considered. The overall
objective of these preliminary meetings is to reach an understanding of how the
development can be built in a way that reduces the environmental impacts
associated with it, while preserving the safety of those who will be living in
the development. Any agreements made at these meetings shall be submitted in
writing upon application for any appropriate land-disturbing activity.
   (E)   When roads are approved to cross over streams and rivers, the use of
bridges shall be preferred over the use of culverts. If a culvert is to be used
it must be properly designed and installed to prevent erosion and to allow the
passage of aquatic wildlife in either direction of the stream or river.
   (F)   If a specific roadway is the only access to other structures, then it
shall remain unblocked at all times.
   (G)   All developments shall be provided with at least two points of access.
Each access provided shall provide access to the entire development in case one
access point is compromised. For phased subdivisions both points of access
shall be open and unobstructed during any time in which one or more persons is
living in the subdivision.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.27 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Adjacent to residences or structures to be occupied in areas of high
risk of forest fires, there shall be required a fire-buffer zone of no less
than 30 feet on all sides of the residence or structures, or to the property
line, whichever is nearer. within the fire buffer zone, all brush, flammable
vegetation or combustible growth shall be maintained in a fire safe manner.
This provision shall not apply to single specimens of trees, ornamental
shrubbery, or similar plants used as ground cover, provided that they do not
form a continuous means of rapidly transmitting fire from the native growth to
a residence or structure to be occupied.
   (B)   In areas of high risk of forest fires as determined by the Fire
Marshal, the following provisions may be made a condition of development or
building permit approval:
      (1)   Roofs shall be covered with noncombustible materials, such as clay
or concrete shake, or tile, or other fire retardant materials;
      (2)   Exterior walls shall be surfaced with noncombustible or fire-
resistant materials; and
      (3)   Chimneys shall be provided with approved spark arresters.
   (C)   Where no public water is available to serve a development or
subdivision, the planning director may, in the interest of public safety,
require the establishment of ponds and dry hydrants to serve such development
or subdivision.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.28 BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   Applications for development authorization shall demonstrate compliance with
the best management practices set forth herein unless waived by the Director in
those circumstances where: strict compliance would result in practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship; the public safety and welfare are assured;
and the purposes of this chapter are not compromised.
   (A)   Accepted professional practices. All development proposals subject to
the requirements of this chapter shall be designed to meet generally accepted
principles of land use planning, soil mechanics, engineering geology, civil
engineering, environmental management, civic design, architecture, landscape
architecture, landscape ecology and related disciplines.
   (B)   Planning. Planning of the development shall take into account the
topography, soils, geology, hydrology, vegetation and other features of the
proposed site. Areas not well suited for development due to soil
characteristics, geology, vegetation, existing plant and animal life, or
hydrology limitations, shall not be developed.
   (C)   Innovation. Site designers are encouraged to propose and apply
innovative concepts for slope and soil stabilization, grading, landscaping and
building placement and design to meet the purposes and intentions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Land disturbance and grading. When grading is necessary, rigid
contouring should be avoided; contours should be rounded to appear undulating
and natural. Projects involving more than one use or phase should be phased
into workable units in a way that minimizes the amount of soil disturbance at
any given point in time. When grading must occur, it should blend with the
natural land form as much as possible. Grading to form level pads and building
sites is strongly discouraged and when required such grading should be
minimized. Earth berms, rock forms or stone retaining walls should be used to
minimize visual impacts of cuts. Hedges and fences may also be appropriate in
some locations. Large, continuous surfaces of smooth concrete and related
structures are considered inappropriate. The height of any retaining wall
should not exceed four feet unless required to be higher for engineering
reasons. In areas where cuts are steeper, a stepped or terraced wall should be
used.
   (E)   Vegetation, landscaping and habitat. Plans for development should
consider any characteristics of the area that make it unique or significant in
the conservation of flora and fauna including threatened, rare and endangered
species. Existing deep-rooted vegetation, including trees, bushes and ground
covers, should be removed only in cases where necessary for buildings, roads,
driveways, parking and minimal yards. Use of plant materials that blend with
the mountainside or hillside shall be used. Landscape schemes that are rough,
natural and/or subdued in character are encouraged. Extensive areas of exotic
plants and sod are discouraged where they would be visible from the public
right-of-way. Within stream protection areas, pesticides, herbicides and other
similar chemicals should only be used in accordance with existing state and
federal pesticide management rules and manufacturers' literature. The
pesticides, herbicides, and similar chemicals should be avoided if possible,
especially by selecting native plants that are resilient in the sites natural
conditions.
   (F)   Historic and archaeological resources. Plans for development should
consider the preservation of significant state historical and archaeological
resources (defined as properties on or eligible for the National Register of
Historic Places) within areas subject to the requirements of this chapter.
Cemeteries and grave sites shall be protected and family members shall be
assured access thereto. Anyone developing properties containing roads, trails,
and other travel ways connecting to national forests and other public lands
shall assure continued public access thereto.
   (G)   Sensitive natural areas. Plans for development shall be sensitive
toward and mitigate any negative effects of development activities on sensitive
natural areas both on site and in immediately adjacent areas.
   (H)   Building colors. Exterior colors for new buildings and structures,
including roofs, should be coordinated with the predominant colors of the
surrounding landscape to minimize contrast between the structure and the
natural environment. It is strongly encouraged that dark or earth-toned colors
be used to make the home less conspicuous as seen from off site.
   (I)   Clustering of buildings and building locations. Buildings and
structures should be clustered where possible to reduce disturbance and removal
of vegetation. Buildings should be sited with different floor elevations to
achieve height variation. For multi-family projects, alignments of buildings
both horizontally and vertically shall be staggered to create unit identity,
privacy at entry ways, private outdoor space, and to share common open space.
   (J)   Building setbacks. Where appropriate, buildings and structures should
be located as close to the road as possible to preserve the natural terrain of
the land, to minimize disturbance thereto, and to shorten the length of
driveways.
   (K)   Screening and view corridors. The thinning of limbs of individual
trees is preferred over tree removal as a means to provide a view corridor.
Dwellings or buildings that are proposed to be sited to maximize views from the
lot or that require removal of vegetation to produce a view corridor are
strongly discouraged.
   (L)   Road and driveways should follow the natural terrain. Road and
driveway alignments should follow the natural terrain unless the project
engineer can justify additional cuts or fills. Roads, walkways and parking
areas should be designed to parallel the natural contours of the site.
   (M)   Shared driveways and parking. Combinations of collective private
driveways, shared parking areas and on-street parallel parking bays should be
used where possible to minimize land and soil disturbance, minimize impervious
surface coverage and achieve excellence of design and aesthetic sensitivity.
   (N)   Lighting. Outside lighting shall be muted and directed so that it does
not spill over on to neighboring properties. A reduced amount of light
emanating from a development on a mountainside or hillside shall be provided,
since lighting from buildings located on mountain or hillsides can be highly-
visible at night and may affect the night character of the community. High-
pressure sodium lights are prohibited. See the town Lighting Ordinance for
specific requirements.
   (O)   Building pads. For subdivisions and developments with multiple
buildings, building pads (i.e., clearing and grading for buildings and
structures) should be varied in elevation above or below road level to avoid
the appearance of monotonous, flat, level pads.
   (P)   Step-down design. Single family dwellings and other structures should
"step down" the hillside or mountainside to limit the amount of grading
required. Large building pads and footings should be split into more than one
(i.e., split level homes that step down the hillside{'}'} where possible to
allow the building pad and structure to more closely follow the existing slope
of the land. Building footprint coverage should be minimized where possible by
using multiple-level (two or more stories) buildings. The visible mass of
larger buildings and structures should be reduced by utilizing below-grade
rooms cut into the natural slope.
   (Q)   Natural drainage channels. Natural drainage channels shall be
preserved to the maximum extent possible.
   (R)   Setbacks. Setbacks should be used to protect natural features of the
mountain and hillside terrain. Placing structures away from the shoulder
reduces the visual impact of development as well as erosion on steep slopes.
All structures should be set back a minimum of 20 feet from the shoulder of a
ridge line. The shoulder is defined as the plane at which the slope of the land
changes from greater than 15% to a ridge top of less than 15% . Natural
vegetation should be maintained undisturbed within the setback area except for
access to a lot or limited cutting to provide a view. All other setbacks
including, but not limited to, those from streams, creeks, springheads, and
property lines shall be met as required by the town or Polk County ordinances,
and/or state regulations.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.29 SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   Upon the filing of a request for approval of a subdivision, land-disturbing
activity , development or building permit, the following procedures shall be
required and followed to determine whether the proposed action is governed by
provisions of this chapter and whether a permit pursuant to this chapter is
required for a lot, parcel, part of a lot, or part of a parcel. The application
shall be reviewed by the Director or his or her designee. Applications for
development authorization that are allowed by the regulations of the town to be
authorized administratively shall be so done by the Director; in cases when
approval is required by the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of Adjustment, or
the Town Council the approval shall be made by the appropriate board or
council.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.30 CRITERIA FOR APPROVAL OF APPLICATIONS.
   No land-disturbing activity, development, building, structure, road,
driveway or other development related activity which requires a permit under
the terms of this chapter or other ordinance of the town shall be permitted
unless the Director, the Planning Board, the Zoning Board of Adjustment, or the
Town Council, whichever has final authority over the application, has
determined that the project as designed and sited meets all of the requirements
of this chapter and substantially conforms to the best management practices set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.31 ACTION ON APPLICATION.
   An application that meets the requirements of this chapter shall be approved
by the Director who shall be authorized to place conditions on the land-
disturbing activity, development, building, structure or other development
related activity to ensure that the minimum requirements and the purposes and
intentions of this chapter are met. Applications that do not meet the standards
contained in §
156.30 above, shall be denied in writing, stating the reasons for denial.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.32 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The purpose of a variance is to provide relief when a strict
application of this chapter would impose practical difficulties or unnecessary
hardships on the applicant.
   (B)   Owners of approved lots of record at the time of this regulation shall
be given every assistance and consideration to overcome problems in the
application and construction of personal single-family dwellings.
      (1)   Standards. A variance from the requirements of this chapter may be
granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment if it finds the following:
         (a)   Strict enforcement of the regulations would result in practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships to the applicant for the variance;
         (b)   The variance is in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of the Ordinance and preserve its spirit; and
         (c)   In the granting of the variance the public safety and welfare
have been secured and substantial justice has been done.
      (2)   Considerations. These findings shall be based on the following
considerations.
         (a)   The fact that the property could be utilized more profitably or
conveniently with the variance than without the variance shall not be
considered as grounds for granting the variance.
         (b)   The hardship relates to the applicant's property rather than to
personal circumstances.
         (c)   The hardship results from the application of the ordinance and
from no other cause, including the actions of the owner of the property or
previous owners.
         (d)   The hardship is peculiar to the property in question rather than
a hardship shared by the neighborhood or the general public.
      (3)   Conditions. Reasonable conditions may be imposed in connection with
a variance as deemed necessary to protect the best interests of the surrounding
property or neighborhood, and otherwise secure the purpose and requirements of
this chapter. Guarantees and evidence may be required that the conditions will
be and are being complied with.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.33 APPEAL.
   An applicant or other party aggrieved by a decision of the Director in the
administration, interpretation or enforcement of this chapter may appeal the
decision to the Town Council by filing a written appeal application with the
Director. The application for appeal shall be filed within 30 days of receipt
of the order of denial. The decision of the Director may be overturned only by
vote of four-fifths of the members of the Town Council entitled to vote upon
the matter. The decision of the Town Council shall be final, subject, however,
to any subsequent action in the County Superior Court or other court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.34 PROCEDURES FOR VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   Upon filing of any complete application for a variance or appeal with the
Director, a public hearing shall be scheduled and held on the proposed variance
or appeal. Notice of the public hearing shall be given at least ten days in
advance of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
town. The Town Council shall make findings and render a decision in writing
within 30 days of the time of the hearing. The Director shall notify the
applicant in writing of the decision on the variance or appeal within five days
after the Council has rendered its decision. The Town Council shall serve as
the board for which variance requests and appeals are heard.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.35 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director to administer and enforce this
chapter and to bring to the attention of the town attorney any violations or
lack of compliance therewith.
   (B)   The Director may delegate enforcement functions, powers and duties
assigned by this chapter to other staff as may be appropriate, without the need
to reflect the delegation by formal action.
      (1)   Refusal of permits or permissions. The Director is hereby
authorized and directed to deny and withhold permits or permissions on any new
project or application pursuant to this chapter or other regulations of the
town where the applicant, the applicant's business, or agent has failed or
refused to comply with this chapter.
      (2)   Stop work order. The Director is hereby authorized to issue written
"stop work" and "cease and desist" orders for any activity that fails to comply
with the provisions of this chapter. The stop work or cease and desist orders
may be lifted at such time as the Director is satisfied that a good faith
effort is being made to comply with applicable provisions of this chapter.
Nothing shall prevent the Director from reissuing stop work and cease and
desist orders where warranted.
      (3)   Injunction. If any land is used or building, structure or other
activity is established or maintained in violation of this chapter, the
Director is authorized to and may institute, in addition to other remedies, an
injunction or undertake other appropriate action to cause the violation to
cease or to be corrected.
      (4)   Rule-making. The Director shall have authority to promulgate such
rules as may be necessary to facilitate the administration of this chapter;
provided, however, any such rule shall not be contrary to the express
provisions of the ordinance and shall be in harmony with its purposes.
      (5)   Violations and remedies. Appropriate actions and proceedings may be
taken at law or in equity to:
         (a)   Prevent any violation of this chapter;
         (b)   Prevent unlawful construction;
         (c)   Recover damages;
         (d)   Restrain, correct or abate a violation; and/or
         (e)   Prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises.
      (6)   Enforcement procedures. When the Director becomes aware of a
violation of this chapter, it shall be his or her duty to notify the owner of
the land of the violation. The owner shall immediately remedy the violation.
         (a)   Notice of violation. If the owner of the land fails to take
prompt corrective action, the Director shall give the owner or occupant written
notice (by certified or registered mail to his or her last known address, by
personal service, or by posting notice conspicuously on the property) of the
following;
            1.   That the activity is in violation of this chapter;
            2.   The nature of the violation, and citation of the section(s) of
this chapter violated;
            3.   The measures necessary to remedy the violation; and
            4.   Mechanisms available to appeal the decision of the Director.
         (b)   Appeal. Any owner who has received a notice of violation may
appeal in writing the decision of the Director to the Town Council within 15
days following the date of the notice of violation. The Town Council shall hear
an appeal within a reasonable time, and it may affirm, modify or revoke the
notice of violation. In the absence of an appeal, the decision of the Director
shall be final.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.36 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended by the Town Council in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (A)   General procedure. Amendments shall be regulated by the general
provisions contained herein.
      (1)   The text of this chapter may be amended in order to:
         (a)   Correct an error or clarify statements; or
         (b)   Change the regulations in the text.
      (2)   Proposed changes or amendments to this chapter may be initiated by
the Town Council, the Planning Board, a member of the staff of the town, or one
or more owners of property within the town as applicable.
      (3)   All proposed changes to this chapter shall first be reviewed by the
Planning Board prior to consideration by the Town Council.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   In order for a person authorized by division (A) above, to initiate
a change to the text of this chapter, an application accompanied by the
application fee shall be submitted to the town Planning Department at least 30
days prior to the date of the Planning Board meeting at which the application
is to be considered. The application shall contain the name(s) and address(es)
of the applicant(s), a copy of the proposed text change and a statement from
the applicant(s) which explains the purpose for the amendment.
      (2)   Application forms may be modified by the Planning Department, as
necessary.
      (3)   The Planning Board and the Town Council will not consider an
application for an amendment denied within the preceding 12 months by the Town
Council.
   (C)   Planning Board action. Before taking any action on a proposed
amendment to this chapter the Town Council shall consider the Planning Board's
recommendation on the proposed amendment. The Planning Board shall have 45 days
after the first consideration of an amendment at a regular meeting to submit
its recommendations to the Town Council. Failure of the Planning Board to
submit a recommendation within the 45-day period shall constitute a favorable
recommendation, except that, if by agreement of the Planning Board and the
applicant 45 days is insufficient due to the complexity of the request, or
similar circumstances, the Planning Board shall have 90 days to submit such
recommendation. Time limitations, however, shall not be applied to text
amendments initiated by the Planning Board, a member of the staff of the town,
or the Town Council.
   (D)   Public hearing. Before enacting any amendment to this chapter the Town
Council shall hold a public hearing. In accordance with G.S. § 160A-364, a
notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the town once a week for two successive weeks, the first
publication of which shall not appear less than ten days or more than 25 days
prior to the date fixed for the public hearing. The notice shall include the
time, place and date of the hearing and include a description of the nature of
the amendment to the ordinance.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Criminal penalty. Any violation of this chapter or amendments thereto
shall constitute a misdemeanor. Those convicted of such violations shall be
punished as provided by G.S. § 14-4a. Each day that a violation continues shall
be considered a separate violation and punishment assigned accordingly.
   (B)   Civil penalty. The owner of any land and any developer, builder,
contractor, agent or other person who participates or acts in concert, assists,
directs, creates or maintains any condition that is in violation of this
chapter may be held responsible for the violation and subject to the civil
penalties and remedies provided herein.
      (1)   Notice. No civil penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged
to be in violation has been notified in accordance with §
156.35(B)(6)(a). If after receiving a notice of violation under §
156.35(B)(6)(a), the owner or other violator fails to take corrective action, a
civil penalty may be imposed under this section in the form of a citation. The
citation shall be served in the same manner as of a notice of violation. The
citation shall state the nature of the violation, shall state the civil penalty
to be imposed upon the violator, and shall direct the violator to pay the civil
penalty within 15 days of the date of the citation.
      (2)   Continuing violation. For each day the violation is not corrected,
the violator will be guilty of an additional and separate offense and subject
to additional civil penalties.
      (3)   Penalties. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter
shall be subject to an assessment of a civil penalty in accordance with the
following schedule:
         (a)   First violation. The assessment of a first violation shall be
construed to mean that a developer has violated one part of this chapter for
the first time. The fine for the assessment of a first violation shall be $50;
         (b)   Second violation. The assessment of a second violation shall be
construed to mean that a developer has violated two different parts of this
chapter (and the second part shall be the second violation) or has violated the
same part on a second occasion after corrective action had taken place for the
first violation. The fine for the assessment of a second violation shall be
$100;
         (c)   Third violation. The assessment of a third violation shall be
construed to mean that a developer has violated three different parts of this
chapter (and the third part shall be the third violation) or has violated the
same part on a third occasion after corrective action had taken place for the
previous second violation. The fine for the assessment of a third violation
shall be $200; and
         (d)   Fourth violation. The assessment of a fourth violation shall be
construed to mean that a developer has violated four different parts of this
chapter (and the fourth part shall be the fourth violation) or has violated the
same part on a fourth occasion after corrective action had taken place for the
previous third violation. The fine for the assessment of a fourth violation
shall be $500.
(Ord. passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 157: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
157.01   Authorization; findings; purpose; objectives
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   General provisions
   
157.04   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
157.05   Floodplain development application; permit and certification
requirements
   
157.06   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
157.07   Corrective procedures
   
157.08   Variance procedures
   
157.09   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
157.10   Legal status provisions
   
157.11   Severability
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS; PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The State Legislature has in G.S. Ch. 143,
Art. 21, Part 6; G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Parts 3, 5 and 8; and G.S. Ch. 160A,
Art. 8, delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to adopt
regulations designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare.
Therefore, the Town Council does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of the town are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
   (D)   Objectives. The objectives of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Protect human life, safety and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e. water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a
special flood hazard area.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban accessory structures. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter. "Area of Special Flood Hazard"
see "Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA)".
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a "Special Flood Hazard Area", it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
"Freeboard", establishes the "Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation".
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate), flood
hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The flood insurance study report includes flood
insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs), if
published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation (BFE) plus the
freeboard establishes the "regulatory flood protection elevation".
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. § 130A, Article 9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the US Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a "Certified Local Government (CLG) Program"; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a "Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program".
      (2)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the US
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the State Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in
1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a "recreational vehicle".
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (Actual Cash Value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in
1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM
are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the "start of construction" commenced
on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management regulations
and includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the "start of
construction" occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL. The top of the lowest floor for structures within Special
Flood Hazard Areas designated as Zone Al-A30,AE,A, orA99.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The "Base Flood Elevation" plus the
"Freeboard". In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where Base Flood Elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus two feet of
freeboard. In "Special Flood Hazard Areas" where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing Federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
157.03(B) below.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to it's before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of "substantial
improvement". SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-related damage sustained by a
structure on two separate occasions during a ten-year period for which the cost
of repairs at the time of each such flood event, on the average, equals or
exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any one-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
   THREAT TO PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the
safety or health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable
number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the
customary manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
157.04 through
157.09 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to mean sea level, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction, including any extra-
territorial jurisdictions (ETJs), of the town and within the jurisdiction of
any other community whose governing body agrees, by resolution, to such
applicability.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas. The special
flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating Technical State
(CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its flood insurance study (FIS)
for Polk County dated September 3, 2008 and its accompanying Flood Insurance
Rate Map Panels (0535J, 0536J, 0545J, and 0546J), which are adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of division (B)
above.
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and
is based on scientific and engineering consideration. Larger floods can and
will occur. Actual flood heights may be increased by man-made or natural
causes. This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within those areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or by
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008; Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 157.04 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Manager or his or her designee, hereinafter referred to as the
"Floodplain Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.05 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION; PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
157.03(B), or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood
hazard area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
157.03(B);
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
157.03(B);
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §
157.03(B); §
157.06 or §
157.09(D);
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (g)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE or A will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures.
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
157.09(B)(4)(c) below when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones
A, AE, and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor.
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received.
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
157.09(B)(6) and (7) of this chapter are met. A description of proposed
watercourse alteration or relocation, when applicable, including an engineering
report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of
the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream and
downstream; and a map (if not shown on plot plan) showing the location of the
proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
157.03(B) above;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable;
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE or AI -30; and/
or
      (8)   Limitations of below BFE enclosure uses (if applicable). (i.e.,
parking, building access and limited storage only).
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates:
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit; and
         (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81 -31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit
holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance.
In some instances, another certification may be required to certify corrected
as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate
of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form
81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea
level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by the
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AE or A1-30 and the
elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
157.09(B)(3)(b).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   The following structures, if located within Zone A, AE or Al-30,
are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements
specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2) above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
157.09(B)(6)(a) below;
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
157.09(B)(7); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
157.09(B)(8).
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.06 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
157.09(F) are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
157.05(C) above;
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
157.05(C) above;
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
157.05(C) above;
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §
157.05(C) above, and §
157.09(B) below;
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this chapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data have not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
157.03(B), obtain, review and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
157.09(D)(2)(b) below, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data are provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data have been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
157.03(B) above, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or
non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   When the lowest floor and the lowest adjacent grade of a structure or
the lowest ground elevation of a parcel in a special flood hazard area are
above the base flood elevation (BFE), advise the property owner of the option
to apply for a Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) from FEMA. Maintain a copy of the
LOMA issued by FEMA in the floodplain development permit file;
   (N)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that the information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended;
   (O)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (P)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (Q)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (R)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (S)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
157.07 below;
   (T)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (U)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of §
157.03(B) above, including any revisions thereto including letters of map
change, issued by FEMA. Notify state and FFMA of mapping needs; and
   (V)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.07 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in the
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in the lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.08 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment as established by the town, hereinafter
referred to as the "Appeal Board", shall hear and decide requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
the decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Ch. 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
157.02 above, provided provisions of divisions (I)(2), (3) and (4) have been
satisfied, and such facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood
damages during the base flood and create no additional threats to public
safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the requirements
of this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
157.02 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. The
notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances;
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge;
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval; and
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.09 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas the following
provisions are required.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (3)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (4)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as
to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during
conditions of flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These
include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/
kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
      (6)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (8)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a
structure, which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall
meet the requirements of "new construction" as contained in this chapter.
      (9)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction,
or replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of
this chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-
encroachment area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional
encroachment below the regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway,
non-encroachment area, or stream setback, and provided that the repair,
reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of this
chapter.
      (10)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
157.08(J) above. A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to
an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
157.05(C) above.
      (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (14)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
      (15)   When a structure is partially located in a Special Flood Hazard
Area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      (16)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations (BFEs), the
provisions for the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest BFE
shall apply.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data have been provided, as set forth in §
157.03(B), or division (D) below, the following provisions, in addition to the
provisions of division (A) above, are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
157.02 above.
      (2)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
157.02 above. Structures located in A, AE and A1-30 Zones may be floodproofed
to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this division are
satisfied. The certification shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator
as set forth in §
157.05(C) above, along with the operational plan and the inspection and
maintenance plan.
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
157.02.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the state regulations for manufactured homes adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
         (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of division (B)(4) below.
         (d)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
      (4)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
         (a)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall
only be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of the enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
         (b)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at
least to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
         (c)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of flood waters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow flood waters to automatically enter and
exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
            5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions; and
            6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (5)   Additions/improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non-conforming than the existing structure; and
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (b)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; and
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (6)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
         (b)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
      (7)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of the structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
      (8)   Accessory structures. When accessory structures (sheds, detached
garages and the like) are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the
following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood
waters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of division (A)(1) above;
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of division (A)(4) above; and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of division (B)(4)(C) above.
         (h)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square
feet that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation
or floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
157.05(C) above.
   (C)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
157.03(B), where no base flood elevation (BFE) data have been provided by FEMA,
the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of this division (C),
shall apply:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
      (2)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be determined based on the following criteria:
         (a)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data are available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within those areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in divisions (A) and (B)
above;
         (b)   When floodway or non-encroachment data are available from a
federal, state or other source, all new construction and substantial
improvements within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with
the requirements of divisions (B) and (F) of this section;
         (c)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. The
BFE data shall be adopted by reference in accordance with the provisions of §
157.03(B) and utilized in implementing this chapter; and
         (d)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data are not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
157.02 above. All other applicable provisions of division (B) above shall also
apply.
   (D)   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways or non-encroachment areas. Along rivers and
streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided by FEMA or is
available from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas
are identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS
report, the following requirements shall apply to all development within those
areas:
      (1)   Standards of §
157.09(A) and (B); and
      (2)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated,
no encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
   (E)   Floodways and non-encroachment areas. Areas designated as floodways or
non-encroachment areas are located within the special flood hazard areas
established in §
157.03(B) above. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely
hazardous areas due to the velocity of flood waters that have erosion potential
and carry debris and potential projectiles, The following provisions, in
addition to the standards outlined in divisions (A) and (B) above, shall apply
to all development within those areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (E)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of division (B)(3)
above; and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of division (E)(1) above.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.10 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance. This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted
September 20, 2007 as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather
to re-enact and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing
provisions, so that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are
reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect
any action, suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the
flood damage prevention ordinance of the town enacted on September 20, 2007, as
amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter; provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under the outstanding permit
within a period of six months subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. The date of the initial flood damage prevention
ordinance for the unincorporated area of the county is April 18, 1988.
   (C)   Effective date. This chapter shall become effective upon adoption. Any
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter, including but
not limited to all previously adopted flood damage prevention ordinances and
regulations of the town, are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
§ 157.11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter as now or later amended or its application
to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2008-09, passed 7-17-2008)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   TEMPORARY PRIVILEGES AND MORATORIUMS
TABLE I: TEMPORARY PRIVILEGES AND MORATORIUMS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        4-2-1998    Establishes one-day privilege licenses and regulates
                     electrical use during the Fourth of July festival
-        11-19-2002  Establishes a temporary moratorium on sexually oriented
                     businesses in the town
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Section Code Section
G.S. Section              Code Section
1-593                     10.05
                          152.24,
1A-1, Rule 4              152.27,
                          152.99
Ch. 7A                    157.08
7A-228                    151.22
                          55.03,
                          71.01,
                          91.19,
                          91.99,
                          92.50,
                          111.04,
14-4                      111.05,
                          112.01,
                          112.10,
                          130.01 -
                          130.04,
                          132.99,
                          153.99,
                          154.112
                          10.99,
14-4(a)                   52.99,
                          156.99
14-145                    154.112
14-286                    92.03
14-288.4                  117.01
14-288.12                 30.29
14-288.16                 30.29
14-288.17                 30.29
Ch. 15, Art. 4A           91.06
15-27.2                   151.15
Ch. 18B                   Ch. 130
18B-101(4)                130.02 -
                          130.05
Ch. 19A, Art. 3           91.09
19A-45                    91.04
Ch. 20                    Ch. 73, Sch. I,
                          75.05
20-4.01(12a)              75.02
20-14(j)(1)               Ch. 73, Sch. I
20-162.1                  72.02
20-169                    Ch. 73, Sch. III
20-219.11                 90.43
42-29                     151.22
42-30                     151.22
42-42(a)                  151.61
42-42.1                   151.61
42-43(a)                  151.62
Ch. 44A, Art. I           90.45
44A-2(d)                  72.01
47-30                     153.05,
                          153.49
Ch. 47A                   154.083
58-79-1                   30.24,
                          30.26
Ch. 74, Art. 7            152.04
90-171.19 et seq.         111.03
Ch. 105                   31.01
Ch. 105, Art. 3           31.01
Ch. 105, Art. 9, Subc. 1  31.01
Ch. 105, Art. 39          31.03
Ch. 105, Art. 44          31.03
Ch. 105, Subc. 1          31.01
105-164.4(a)(3)           31.02
105-164.16                31.01
105-520                   31.03
Ch. 113A, Art. 4          153.73
113A-1 et seq.            152.06
113A-50 et seq.           152.03
113A-54                   154.104
113A-54.1(b)              152.06
113A-54.1(e)              152.06
113A-56(a)                152.04
113A-57(2)                152.06
113A-57(3)                152.29
113A-61(c)                152.26
113A-61.1                 152.06
113A-64                   152.27,
                          152.99
113A-64(b)                152.06
115C-457.2                152.99
122C-3(11)                154.005
Ch. 130A, Art,9           157.02
Ch. 130A, Art. 10         151.61
130A-290(a)(6)            157.02
130A-290(a)(35)           157.02
130A-290(a)(36)           157.02
132-1                     31.02
136-32                    154.112
136-102.6                 153.69
136-102.6(f)              153.49
136-141 et seq.           90.48
136-143                   90.48
Ch. 139                   152.03
Ch. 143, Art. 8           31.04
Ch. 143, Art. 21, Part 6  157.01
Ch. 143, Art. 33B         154.044
143-34.12                 153.73
143-55(1)                 155.05
143-128                   118.01
143-143.15                157.09
143-215.23 et seq.        153.73
143-318(a)(3)             30.50
143-318.11(a)             30.50
143-318.11(a)(1)          30.50,
                          30.54
143-318.11(a)(3)          30.50,
                          30.54
150B-14(c)                152.03
153A-122                  91.03
153A-140                  93.07
159-24                    30.20
Ch. 160A, Art. 8          156.02,
                          157.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 10         151.23
Ch. 160A, Art. 19         156.02
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3 157.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 5 157.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 8 157.01
Ch. 160A-360              153.02
Chs. 160A-381 - 160A-392  154.002
160A-61                   30.02
160A-63                   30.05
160A-67                   30.03
160A-70                   30.04
160A-71                   30.40
160A-147                  30.75
160A-148                  30.22,
                          30.78
160A-171                  30.82
160A-173                  30.83
160A-174(a)               30.29
160A-175                  10.99,
                          92.99
160A-175(b)               154.112
160A-175(f)               154.112
160A-193                  90.09
160A-211                  117.10
160A-303                  90.36
160A-303.2                90.36
160A-364                  156.36
160A-376                  153.26
160A-384                  154.144
160A-385(a)               30.53
160A-385.1                153.13,
                          153.32
160A-386                  30.53
160A-388                  154.146
160A-400.9(e)             154.046
160A-400.14(a)            151.19
160A-400.20-32            153.13,
                          153.32
160A-441                  151.02,
                          151.25
160A-443                  151.18
160A-443(7)               151.22
160A-443(8)               151.26
160A-444                  151.03
160A-445                  151.20
160A-446(g)               151.27
160A-447                  151.29
160A-499                  31.04
160A-499(d)               31.04
Ch. 163, Subc. 9          30.42
163-166.40                154.112
164-7                     10.14
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.             Date Passed Code Section
–                  - -         53.30 -
                                 53.35
–                  - -         54.01
                                 90.01 -
–                  - -         90.09,
                                 90.99
–                  - -         112.01 -
                                 112.10
–                  - -         150.01
–                  - -         153.65
–                  - -         154.067
–                  - -         155.06
–, § 1            - -         90.35
–, § 2            - -         90.36
–, § 3            - -         90.37
–, § 4            - -         90.38
–, § 5            - -         90.39
–, § 6            - -         90.40
–, § 7            - -         90.41
–, § 8            - -         90.42
–, § 9            - -         90.43
–, § 10           - -         90.44
–, § 11           - -         90.45
–, § 12           - -         90.46
–, § 13           - -         90.47
–, § 14           - -         90.48
–, § 15           - -         90.49
–, Art. I          - -         154.001
–, Art. II         - -         154.002
–, Art. III        - -         154.003
–, Art. IV, § 400 - -         154.004
–, Art. IV, § 401 - -         154.005
–, Art. V, § 500  - -         154.020
–, Art. V, § 501  - -         154.021
–, Art. V, § 502  - -         154.022
–, Art. V, § 503  - -         154.023
–, Art. V, § 504  - -         154.024
–, Art. V, § 505  - -         154.025
–, Art. V, § 506  - -         154.026
–, Art. V, § 507  - -         154.027
–, Art. V, § 508  - -         154.028
–, Art. VI, § 600 - -         154.040
–, Art. VI, § 601 - -         154.041
–, Art. VI, § 602 - -         154.042
–, Art. VI, § 603 - -         154.043
–, Art. VI, § 604 - -         154.044
–, Art. VI, § 605 - -         154.045
–, Art. VI, § 606 - -         154.046
–, Art. VII, § 700- -         154.060
–, Art. VII, § 701- -         154.061
–, Art. VII, § 702- -         154.062
–, Art. VII, § 703- -         154.063
–, Art. VII, § 704- -         154.064
–, Art. VIII       - -         154.065
–, Art. IX         - -         154.066
–, Art. IX, § 900 - -         154.067
–, Art. IX, § 901 - -         154.068
–, Art. X, § 1000 - -         154.080
–, Art. X, § 1001 - -         154.081
–, Art. X, § 1002 - -         154.082
–, Art. X, § 1003 - -         154.083
–, Art. XI, § 1100- -         154.095
–, Art. XI, § 1101- -         154.096
–, Art. XI, § 1102- -         154.097
–, Art. XI, § 1103- -         154.098
–, Art. XI, § 1104- -         154.099
–, Art. XI, § 1105- -         154.100
–, Art. XI, § 1106- -         154.101
–, Art. XI, § 1107- -         154.102
–, Art. XI, § 1108- -         154.103
–, Art. XI, § 1109- -         154.104
–, Art. XI, § 1110- -         154.105
–, Art. XI, § 1111- -         154.106
–, Art. XI, § 1112- -         154.107
–, Art. XI, § 1113- -         154.108
–, Art. XI, § 1114- -         154.109
–, Art. XI, § 1115- -         154.110
–, Art. XI, § 1116- -         154.111
–, Art. XI, § 1117- -         154.112
–, Art. XI, § 1118- -         154.113
–, Art. XI, § 1119- -         154.114 
–, Art. XII, § 120- -         154.125
–, Art. XII, § 120- -         154.126
–, Art. XII, § 120- -         154.127
–, Art. XII, § 120- -         154.128 
–, Art. XIII, § 13- -         154.140
–, Art. XIII, § 13- -         154.141
–, Art. XIII, § 13- -         154.142
–, Art. XIII, § 13- -         154.143 
–, Art. XIII, § 13- -         154.144
–, Art. XIII, § 13- -         154.145
–, Art. XIII, § 13- -         154.146
–, Art. XIII, § 13- -         154.147
–, Art. XIV        - -         154.999
–, Addendum        - -         Ch. 154, App. A
–, § 2-1          - -         30.01
–, § 2-2          - -         30.02
–, § 2-3          - -         30.03
–, § 2-4          - -         30.04
–, § 2-5          - -         30.05
–, § 2-6          - -         30.06
–, § 2-7          - -         30.07
–, § 2-8          - -         30.08
–, § 2-11         - -         30.20
–, § 2-12         - -         30.21
–, § 2-13         - -         30.22
–, § 2-15         - -         30.23
–, § 2-16         - -         30.24
–, § 2-17         - -         30.25
–, § 2-19         - -         30.26
–, § 2-20         - -         30.27
–, § 2-21         - -         30.28
–, § 2-22         - -         30.29
–, § 2-50         - -         30.75
–, § 2-51         - -         30.76
–, § 2-52         - -         30.77
–, § 2-53         - -         30.78
–, § 2-54         - -         30.79
–, § 2-55         - -         30.80
–, § 2-56         - -         30.81
–, § 2-57         - -         30.82
–, § 2-58         - -         30.83
–, § 2-59         - -         30.84
–, § 2-60         - -         30.85
–, § 4-1          - -         94.01
–, § 4-2          - -         94.02
–, § 4-3          - -         94.03
–, § 4-4          - -         94.04
–, § 4-5          - -         94.05
–, § 4-6          - -         94.06
–, § 4-41         - -         94.20
–, § 4-42         - -         94.21
–, § 4-43         - -         94.22
–, § 4-44         - -         94.23
–, § 4-45         - -         94.24
–, § 4-46         - -         94.25
–, § 4-61         - -         115.01
–, § 4-62         - -         115.02
–, § 4-63         - -         115.03
–, § 4-64         - -         115.04
–, § 4-65         - -         115.05
–, § 4-66         - -         115.06
–, § 4-67         - -         115.07
–, § 4-68         - -         115.08
–, § 5-1          - -         92.01
–, § 5-2          - -         92.02
–, § 5-3          - -         92.03
–, § 5-4          - -         92.04
–, § 5-5          - -         92.05
–, § 5-6          - -         92.06
–, § 5-7          - -         92.07
–, § 5-8          - -         92.08
–, § 5-9          - -         92.09
–, § 5-20         - -         92.20
–, § 5-21         - -         92.21
–, § 5-22         - -         92.22
–, § 5-24         - -         92.23
–, § 5-25         - -         92.24
–, § 5-26         - -         92.25
–, § 5-27         - -         92.26
–, § 5-29         - -         92.99
–, § 5-30         - -         92.27
–, § 5-31         - -         92.28
–, § 5-32         - -         92.29
–, § 5-33         - -         92.30
–, § 5-51         - -         92.40
–, § 5-52         - -         92.99
–, § 6-1          - -         130.01
–, § 6-2          - -         130.02
–, § 6-3          - -         130.03
–, § 6-4          - -         130.04
–, § 6-5          - -         130.05
–, § 6-7          - -         130.06
–, § 8-1          - -         117.01
–, § 8-36         - -         117.02
–, § 8-37         - -         117.03
–, § 8-38         - -         117.04
–, § 8-39         - -         117.05
–, § 8-40         - -         117.06
–, § 8-41         - -         117.07
–, § 8-42         - -         117.08
–, § 8-43         - -         117.09
–, § 8-44         - -         117.99
–, § 8-61         - -         117.10
–, § 8-62         - -         117.11
–, § 8-63         - -         117.12
–, § 8-64         - -         117.13
–, § 8-65         - -         117.14
–, § 8-66         - -         117.15
–, § 14-161       - -         111.01
–, § 14-162       - -         111.02
–, § 14-163       - -         111.03
–, § 14-164       - -         111.04
–, § 14-165       - -         111.05
–, § 14-166       - -         111.99
–, § 14-191       - -         111.06
–, § 14-192       - -         111.07
–, § 14-193       - -         111.08
–, § 14-194       - -         111.09
–, § 14-195       - -         111.10
–, § 14-196       - -         111.11
–, § 14-197       - -         111.12
–, § 14-198       - -         111.13
–, § 14-200       - -         111.14
–, § 14-281       - -         113.01
–, § 14-282       - -         113.02
–, § 14-283       - -         113.99
–, § 14-284       - -         113.03
–, § 14-285       - -         113.04
–, § 14-286       - -         113.05
–, § 14-287       - -         113.06
–, § 14-288       - -         113.07
2                    10-2-1956   131.01
–                  10-6-1964   Ch. 73, Sch. I
–                  4-1-1969    50.02
–                  6-11-1969   90.99
–                  9-9-1969    Ch. 73, Sch. I
–                  2-9-1971    70.01,
                                 70.99
                                 91.26,
–                  2-9-1971    91.27,
                                 91.99
I-72                 1-2-1972    72.01
–                  4-1-1975    150.02,
                                 150.99
–                  2-9-1978    91.01,
                                 91.99
–                  3-6-1986    91.25,
                                 91.99
–                  11-8-1990   92.50
–                  10- -1991   31.02,
                                 31.99
–                  1-7-1993    72.02
–, § 4            7- -1993    90.99
                                 52.99,
97-11-07             11-6-1997   53.02 -
                                 53.18,
                                 53.99
–                  12-4-1997   90.60,
                                 90.99
–                  4-2-1998    T.S.O. I
61                   2-15-2000   Ch. 73, Sch. I
–                  10-16-2001  90.99
–                  - -2002     31.01,
                                 31.03
–                  11-19-2002  T.S.O. I
                                 72.15 -
–                  4-15-2003   72.20,
                                 Ch. 74, Sch. I
–                  4-15-2003   114.01
–                  4-15-2003   116.01
–                  6- -2003    118.01
–                  - -2007     51.01 -
                                 51.05
                                 93.01 -
–                  - -2007     93.11, Ch. 93, Apps.
                                 A and
                                 B
                                 151.01 -
                                 151.04,
                                 151.15 -
–                  - -2007     151.29,
                                 151.40 -
                                 151.48,
                                 151.60 -
                                 151.63
2007-01              3-15-2007   50.01
                                 153.01 -
                                 153.13,
                                 153.25 -
                                 153.33,
–                  5-17-2007   153.45 -
                                 153.49,
                                 153.60 -
                                 153.77,
                                 153.99
2007-02              6-21-2007   71.01,
                                 71.99
                                 52.01 -
2007-06              10-25-2007  52.08,
                                 52.99
–                  - -2008     51.05
–                  - -2008     155.01 -
                                 155.14
                                 156.01 -
                                 156.12,
–                  - -2008     156.25 -
                                 156.36,
                                 156.99
2008-01              1-23-2008   Ch. 73, Sch. II
2008-02              1-23-2008   Ch. 73, Sch. I
2008-03              2-21-2008   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                                 157.01 -
2008-09              7-17-2008   157.10,
                                 157.99
                                 152.01 -
                                 152.10,
2007-11              10-16-2008  152.20 -
                                 152.29,
                                 152.99
2008-12              11-20-2008  30.40 -
                                 30.60
2009-01              2-17-2009   157.03
2009-07              9-17-2009   91.25
2009-09              3-18-2009   50.04
                                 154.004,
2010-01              3-25-2010   154.040 -
                                 154.046
2010-02              3-25-2010   154.112
2010-04              6-17-2010   154.040
                                 154.005,
2010-05              7-14-2010   154.060,
                                 154.064,
                                 154.065
2010-07              12-16-2010  51.02
                                 132.01,
2011-01              5-17-2011   132.02,
                                 132.99
2011-02              7-21-2011   51.02
2011-03              7-21-2011   53.04
2011-4               7-21-2011   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                                 112.01 -
                                 112.10,
2011-5               8-18-2011   113.01 -
                                 113.07,
                                 113.99
2011-6               8-18-2011   154.128
–                  12-15-2011  154.112
2012-1               1-19-2012   51.02
                                 154.005,
–                  12-20-2012  154.065,
                                 154.115
–                  11-21-2013  154.110,
                                 154.116
–                  4-17-2014   154.040 -
                                 154.046
–                  4-17-2014   154.081,
                                 154.082
–                  9-18-2014   154.112
–                  11-20-2014  54.01
                                 152.01 -
                                 152.11,
2015-01              1-8-2015    152.20 -
                                 152.29,
                                 152.99
                                 30.40,
2015-02              2-19-2015   30.45,
                                 30.83
2015-03              3-26-2015   154.005,
                                 154.098
2015-05              6-18-2015   31.04
2015-06              9-17-2015   Ch. 73, Sch. III
2015-07              10-15-2015  30.40 -
                                 30.60
                                 52.99,
                                 55.01 -
2015-10              11-19-2015  55.03,
                                 90.60,
                                 90.99
2016-01              1-21-2016   51.02
2016-03              2-18-2016   154.112
                                 154.060,
                                 154.064 -
–                  3-16-2017   154.066,
                                 154.080,
                                 154.128,
                                 154.146
2018-02              11-15-2018  94.40 -
                                 94.44
2020-02              9-17-2020   75.01 -
                                 75.05
2020-03              8-20-2020   94.07
2021-01              1-21-2021   133.01
                                 90.21 -
–                  9-16-2021   90.26,
                                 90.99
                                 91.02 -
–                  9-16-2021   91.24,
                                 91.99
–                  4-18-2024   55.01
–                  2-20-2025   30.40,
                                 154.044
                                 55.03,
                                 71.01,
                                 90.60,
                                 111.04,
                                 111.05,
–                  3-20-2025   112.01,
                                 113.03,
                                 113.06,
                                 130.01 -
                                 130.05,
                                 132.02
                                
 
 
