TOWN OF CONWAY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2018 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 9-5-2017
State Legislation current through 2017 Legislative Service #5
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend code; effect of new ordinances
   
10.18   Section histories; section headings; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Conway shall be
designated as the Code of Conway, North Carolina and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.  The Mayor and Board of Commissioners, or
governing body, of the Town of Conway, North Carolina.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the Town of Conway, North Carolina.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This  municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first and the last day; and if the last day is
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  The County of Northampton, North Carolina.
      G.S. or GENERAL STATUTES.  The latest edition of the GENERAL STATUTES of
North Carolina, as amended.
      GENDER.  Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine
and neuter.
      GOVERNOR.  The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY.  All words giving a joint authority to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving the authority to a majority of
persons or officers.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      NUMBER.  Words used in the singular include the plural, and the plural
includes the singular number.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named in this code,
they shall mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use
in this town.
      OWNER.  Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY.  Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY.  Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK.  Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
      STREET.  Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the town and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT.  When applied to a building or land, shall include
any person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether
alone or with others.
      TENSE.  Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
      TOWN.  The Town of Conway, in the County of Northampton, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
      ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  One designated by the Board of
Commissioners.
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see G.S. § 1-593
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of an act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and the word
or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this town for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication.
   (B)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall be
construed to repeal or otherwise affect the validity of any of the following:
      (1)   Any offense or act committed or done or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred or any contract or right established or accruing before the effective
date of this code;
      (2)   Any ordinance or resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment
of money for the town or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the town or
any evidence of the town's indebtedness;
      (3)   Any contract or obligation assumed by the town;
      (4)   Any ordinance fixing the salary of any town officer or employee;
      (5)   Any right or franchise granted by the town;
      (6)   Any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating,
relocating, opening, widening, paving and the like, any street or public way in
the town;
      (7)   Any appropriation ordinance;
      (8)   Any ordinance which, by its own terms, is effective for a stated or
limited term;
      (9)   Any ordinance providing for local improvements and assessing taxes
therefor;
      (10)   Any zoning ordinance or zoning map amendment;
      (11)   Any ordinance dedicating or accepting any subdivision plat;
      (12)   Any ordinance describing or altering the boundaries of the town;
      (13)   The administrative ordinances or resolutions of the town not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
      (14)   Any ordinance levying or imposing taxes not included herein;
      (15)   Any ordinance establishing or prescribing street grades in the
town; and/or
      (16)   Any personnel ordinance.
   (C)   Nor shall any ordinance be construed to revive any ordinance or part
thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent ordinance which is repealed by
this chapter; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full
force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length herein.
Statutory reference:
   Statutes not repealed by General Statutes, see G.S. § 164-7
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND CODE; EFFECT OF NEW ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section or division, or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence that the subsequent ordinances numbered
or omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending provisions by specific reference to the section number of this code in
language substantially similar to the following: “Section                of the
Code of Ordinances, Town of Conway, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows....” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Conway, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered               , which section shall read as
follows:....” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number, as the case may be.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; SECTION HEADINGS; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any and all amending ordinances, if any, are
listed following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-
13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-
1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:  (G.S. §
160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 132-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the town, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(Prior Code, §       ).”  The history notes following sections and the
references scattered throughout the code are not part of the code, but are
merely for the benefit for the user of the code.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of any
section or division of this code of ordinances for which no other penalty is
provided, or failing or neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the
provisions of this code of ordinances are violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
32.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
33.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
34.   FINANCE
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Criminal history check
§ 30.01  CRIMINAL HISTORY CHECK.
   (A)   This section, adopted by the Town Board of Commissioners, is to
provide a policy and procedure for conducting criminal history checks through
SBI/DCI on final applicants for employment with the town. This section is
adopted pursuant to the authority vested in the town by the General Assembly of
the state, in G.S. §§ 160A-11 and 160A-12.
   (B)   In order to protect the citizens of the town, and their properties,
the procedures herein are established to provide for fingerprinting and
criminal history checks on all final applicants for regular full and part time
positions in the town.
   (C)   Subject to division (C)(3) below, employment with the town may be
denied for those persons convicted of any crime against a person, or crimes
against property where intent is an element, or any drug or gambling related
offense.
      (1)   The Town Administrator, or designee, may conduct an investigation
of any final candidate for a permanent full- or part-time position with the
town, and it shall be precondition of employment that the applicant for the
position shall, upon request, provide fingerprints and all other necessary
personal identification including a birth certificate, Social Security number
and driver’s license, if available, so that the Town Administrator, or designee
may cause a thorough search to be made of local and state criminal records to
determine if the applicant has a history of criminal convictions or the crimes
enumerated above by use of the Division of Criminal Information Network (DCI).
      (2)   The Police Chief for the town shall provide the findings from the
use of the DCI to the Town Administrator or designee, provided that all
necessary agreements with the State Bureau of Investigation Division of
Criminal Information have been executed.
      (3)   An evaluation of any crime for the purposes of employment will take
into account the nature and the circumstances of the offense and the time frame
of the offense as it relates to the essential job functions or the positions
applied.
      (4)   Prior to denial or termination of employment based upon criminal
history recorded received for the Police Chief shall verify the existence of a
record by either obtaining a certificated public record or by submitting a
fingerprint card of the individual to the criminal information and
identification section for the verification that the CHRI record belongs to the
individual.
   (D)   If the ordinance or the application thereof to any circumstance is
held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications
of the ordinance which can be given separate effect and to that end the
provisions of this section are declared to be severable.
(Ord. passed 7-2-2007)
CHAPTER 31:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
31.01   State of emergency; restrictions authorized
   
31.02   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.03   Evacuation
   
31.04   Curfew
   
31.05   Restrictions on possession, consumption or transfer of alcoholic
beverages
   
31.06   Restriction on possession, transportation and transfer of dangerous
weapons and substances
   
31.07   Restrictions on access to areas
   
31.08   Proclamation may prohibit or restrict
   
31.09   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
31.10   Superseding and amendatory proclamations
   
31.11   Termination of proclamation
   
31.12   In case of absence or disability of Chairperson
   
31.13   Territorial applicability
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01  STATE OF EMERGENCY; RESTRICTIONS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public emergency, for
any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protection for lives, safety or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town
or any part thereof, or threatening damages to or destruction of property, the
Mayor of the town is hereby authorized and empowered under G.S. § 166A-8 to
issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the existence of such a
state of emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect the lives and
property of people within the county, to place in effect any or all of the
restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the county and to specific hours of
the day or night; and to exempt from all or any part of the restrictions, while
acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties, law
enforcement officers, firefighters and other public employees, rescue squad
members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities;
on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of
public utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine,
radio broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for
profit; and other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of
public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare
needs of people within the county.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.02  PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor of the town, by proclamation, may impose the prohibitions
and restrictions specified in §§
31.03 through
31.08, in the manner described in those sections. The Mayor may impose as many
of those specified prohibitions and restrictions as he or she finds are
necessary, because of an emergency, to maintain an acceptable level of public
order and services and to protect lives, safety and property. The Mayor shall
recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable
steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those affected by it
and shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall send reports of
the substance of the proclamation to the mass communications media which serves
the affected area. The Mayor shall retain a text of the proclamation and
furnish upon request certified copies of it.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.03  EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the
population of town, to prescribe routes, modes of transportation and
destination in connection with evacuation; and to control ingress and egress of
a disaster area, the movement of persons within the area and the occupancy of
premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in a
subsequent proclamation which shall be well publicized.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.04  CURFEW.
   (A)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The
Mayor may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people
whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes
and the restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by proclamation removes
the curfew.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.05  RESTRICTIONS ON POSSESSION, CONSUMPTION OR TRANSFER OF ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage; including beer, wine, and spirituous liquor other than on one’s own
premises, and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale or purchases of
any alcoholic beverage within the area of town described in the proclamation.
The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic beverages by
employees of alcoholic beverage control stores as well as by anyone else within
the geographical area described.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.06  RESTRICTION ON POSSESSION, TRANSPORTATION AND TRANSFER OF DANGEROUS
WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase of any dangerous weapon or
substance. The Mayor may exempt from some or all of the restrictions classes of
people whose possession, transfer or transportation of certain dangerous
weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the public’s health,
safety or welfare. The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE.
      (1)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device, as defined in G.S. § 14-288.8(c), gasoline or
other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of
serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
      (2)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used to
inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that the instrument or
substance will be so used; or
      (3)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that such a part or
ingredient will be so used.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of town or the part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be punishable as provided by state
law.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.07  RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area, designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates or other law enforcement
officer when directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting
under this authority, the Chief of Police and his or her subordinates may
restrict or deny access to any area, street, highway or location within the
town if that restriction or denial of access or use is reasonably necessary to
promote efforts being made to overcome the emergency or to prevent further
aggravation of the emergency.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.08  PROCLAMATION MAY PROHIBIT OR RESTRICT.
   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.09  REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall by proclamation terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions when the emergency
no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.10  SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor, in his or her discretion, may invoke the restrictions authorized
by this chapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by
means of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedures set forth
in §
31.02 above.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.11  TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation issued under this chapter shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same procedures
set forth in §
31.02 above for proclamations.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.12  IN CASE OF ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF CHAIRPERSON.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro-Tem of the
Town Council, or other person as may be designated by the Town Council, shall
have an exercise all of the powers herein given the Mayor.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.13  TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply within the corporate limits of the town over which
the municipality has jurisdiction to enact general police power ordinances,
unless the municipality by resolution consents to its application of county
authority or the Mayor of the municipality has requested its application, in
which event it shall apply to those areas as fully and to the same extent as
elsewhere in the town.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   Except as provided in §
31.06 above, any person violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a
proclamation authorized by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50, or imprisonment not
exceeding 30 days, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 7-2-1990)
CHAPTER32:  BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Office of Mayor; duties
   
32.02   Committees
   
32.03   Power over employees
   
32.04   Resignation of members
   
32.05   Compensation
   
32.06   Division of duties
Meetings
   
32.20   Regular meetings; time and place
   
32.21   Adjourned meetings
   
32.22   Order of business
   
32.23   Rules of procedure
   
32.24   Three-fourths vote required
   
32.25   Meetings open to the public
   
32.26   Minutes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  OFFICE OF MAYOR; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to:
   (A)   Preside over all meetings of the Board;
   (B)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town’s business;
   (C)   Make a monthly report to the Board concerning the business of the town
and its employees and make any recommendations as he or she may deem advisable
for the welfare of the town;
   (D)   See that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
   (E)   Act with the several Commissioners in the expenditure of funds duly
appropriated for improvement or repair of properties in the various departments
as agent of the full Board; and
   (F)   Countersign all checks of the town.
§ 32.02  COMMITTEES.
   The Board may create any committees of the Board for special purposes as it
deems best.
§ 32.03  POWER OVER EMPLOYEES.
   The Board shall have the power to:
   (A)   Assign according to classification.  Assign any employee of the town
to any department or branch thereof requiring services appropriate to the
personnel system classification of the employee so assigned;
   (B)   Prescribe rules.  Prescribe any rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative agencies subject to
its authority, and it shall have the power to revoke, suspend, or amend any
rule or regulation;
   (C)   Investigate.  Either by itself or by any officer or person designated
for the purpose by it, investigate and to examine or inquire into the affairs
or operation of any department, division, bureau, or office; and shall have
power to employ consultants and professional counsel to aid in the
investigations, examinations, or inquiries;
   (D)   Overrule officials.  Set aside any action taken by a department head
and may supersede him or her in the functions of his or her office;
   (E)   Delegate duties.  Direct any department, division, or bureau to
perform the work for any other department, division, or bureau;
   (F)   Appoint administrative committees.  Designate from the administrative
service the committees and the officers thereof as it shall find necessary for
the proper consideration of administrative problems.  The committees shall meet
at the request of the Board and shall make any recommendation on matters
referred to them as they shall find necessary for the best interests of the
town; and
   (G)   Appear before the Board.  Require any employee of the town to appear
before and address the Board at any meeting.
§ 32.04  RESIGNATION OF MEMBERS.
   Resignation of members of the Board shall be in writing, and no final action
shall be taken thereon by the Board until the next regular meeting.
§ 32.05  COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of Board members shall be provided in the annual budget
ordinance.
§ 32.06  DIVISION OF DUTIES.
   The Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the Board, shall appoint
the following Commissioners, whose duties shall be to act under instructions of
the full Board in a supervisory capacity over the respective departments of the
municipal government from the membership of the Board:
   (A)   Commissioner of Town Preservation;
   (B)   Commissioner of Cemetery;
   (C)   Commissioner of Public Safety;
   (D)   Public Works Director; and
   (E)   Commissioner of Streets.
MEETINGS
§ 32.20  REGULAR MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   The Board shall hold its regular meetings on first Tuesday in each month at
7:30 p.m. at the Town Hall.
§ 32.21  ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   If a quorum fails to attend, the meeting shall stand adjourned to a day
agreed upon by the majority of the members present.  Any regular or special
meeting may be adjourned to a date prior to the next regular meeting date of
the Board.
§ 32.22  ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The Town Administrator shall prepare and submit the order of business
(agenda) for every meeting of the Board of Commissioners.
§ 32.23  RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   Except where otherwise provided by law or ordinance, the procedure of the
Board shall generally be governed by Robert’s Rules of Order.
§ 32.24  THREE-FOURTHS VOTE REQUIRED.
   No proposition to appropriate money, to alter or repeal any ordinance or
rule of the Board, or to enact any new ordinance or establish any new rule
shall be made or decided at any other than a regular meeting, except by a vote
of three-fourths of those present.
§ 32.25  MEETINGS OPEN TO THE PUBLIC.
   All sessions of the Board, whether regular or special, shall be open to the
public.
§ 32.26  MINUTES.
   Every resolution or order adopted or made by the Board and every petition
submitted to it, which is not set out in full in the minutes, shall be filed in
an exhibit book and by reference shall be made part of the minutes.  The
minutes of each meeting shall be submitted to the Board prior to subsequent
meetings and, upon being approved by the Board, shall be signed by the Clerk. 
The minutes shall constitute part of the archives of the town.
CHAPTER33:  TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
   
33.01   Town Administrator
   
33.02   Town Clerk
   
33.03   Town Attorney
§ 33.01  TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator shall:
   (A)   Be authorized to inspect at any reasonable time all books and records
pertaining to town affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the town;
   (B)   Settle any dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointed officers of the town after consultation with the Town Attorney;
   (C)   Have the power to delegate to any appointed officer any duty which is
to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform that
duty;
   (D)   Make any financial reports and statements as the Board may require of
him or her;
   (E)   Keep the books of accounts of the town which shall show:
      (1)   Accurate and detailed statements of all moneys collected for the
town by the town officers and other persons;
      (2)   In detail the property owned by the town and the income derived
therefrom;
      (3)   Separate accounts of every appropriation made by the Board, the
date thereof, and the purpose for which made;
      (4)   Each payment of public money, its purpose, and to whom paid;
      (5)   Separate accounts for each department of the town government; and
      (6)   Any other accounts as may be necessary for a complete financial
statement of the town.
   (F)   Require from time to time all persons receiving money or having
disposition or management of any town property, of which an account is kept in
his or her office, to render a statement thereof to him or her;
   (G)   Call on all persons who may have moneys or securities belonging to the
town which should be paid or delivered into the treasury, to receive and to
safely keep the same for the use of the town and to disburse the funds upon the
appropriation of the Board according to the order as may be duly drawn on him
or her in the manner hereinafter specified; he or she shall keep in a book
provided for that purpose a fair and correct account of all moneys received and
disbursed by him or her, together with the source from whence they came and the
purpose for which they were appropriated;
   (H)   Make daily deposits of his or her collections in the town depository
and take a receipt therefor;
   (I)   Collect all property and license taxes due the town;
   (J)   Issue receipts for all collections;
   (K)   Keep an accurate record of all collections made by him or her;
   (L)   Supervise the town facilities and property; and
   (M)   Perform the duties specified in G.S. § 160A-148.
§ 33.02  TOWN CLERK.
   The Town Clerk shall:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the Board;
   (B)   Keep an accurate and complete record of all the proceedings of the
Board and file them in a well-bound book;
   (C)   Preserve all town papers and records turned over to him or her;  and
   (D)   Perform the duties specified in G.S. § 160A-171.
§ 33.03  TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Board shall, at its first regular meeting following its election
and qualifications, elect a Town Attorney.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall:
      (1)   Prosecute and defend suits for and against the town;
      (2)   Advise the Mayor, Board, or any officer of the town in regard to
matters connected with the town’s business;
      (3)   Attend all meetings of the Board when requested to do so;
      (4)   Draw any deeds, contracts, bonds, notes, and other legal papers as
may be required for the proper conduct of the town’s business;
      (5)   Draw all ordinances granting franchises; and
      (6)   Approve all ordinances as to form before their introduction.
CHAPTER 34:  FINANCE
Section
Purchasing
   
34.01   Disbursement of funds
   
34.02   Purchasing; generally
   
34.03   Personal interest
Fiscal Procedures
   
34.15   Official depository
   
34.16   Surplus funds
PURCHASING
§ 34.01  DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
being G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq., no bill or claim against the town may be paid
unless it has been approved by the Finance Officer.
   (B)   No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it bears on its
face the certificate of the Town Administrator as follows.
      (1)   “This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, being G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.”
      (2)   “This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the
Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, being G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.”
§ 34.02  PURCHASING; GENERALLY.
   Each purchase by the town shall be made by a purchase order signed by the
authorized purchasing agent.
§ 34.03  PERSONAL INTEREST.
   It shall be unlawful for any officer or employee of the town, directly or
indirectly, to become a contractor for work done for the town, or to become
directly personally interested in or receive profits from any purchase of
supplies for any department of the town; and any person so offending shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and removed from office.
Penalty, see §
10.99
FISCAL PROCEDURES
§ 34.15  OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY.
   The official depository for the funds of the town shall be the Southern
Bank, Jackson, NC.
§ 34.16  SURPLUS FUNDS.
   Investment of all idle funds shall be managed by the Town Finance Officer
pursuant to G.S. § 159-30.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND TRASH
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
      
53.   SEWER RATES
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE AND TRASH
Section
   
50.01   Special or bulk collections
   
50.02   Contractor responsibility
§ 50.01  SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Tree limbs, shrubbery cuttings and other refuse will be collected and
removed by the town according to the following terms and conditions.
      (1)   Tree limbs less than one inch in diameter, and shrubbery cuttings
shall be placed in trash cans or neatly piled at roadside by the property
owners or their tenants for easy collection.
      (2)   No tree trunks or stumps will be collected by the town.
      (3)   Tree limbs that have fallen as a result of natural occurrences such
as high winds, lightning, snow, ice or other “acts of God” shall be collected
based upon the following requirements:
         (a)   Tree limbs must be cut into sections not exceeding six feet in
length; and
         (b)   Tree limbs must not exceed six inches in diameter.
   (B)   No special or bulk collections shall be made from vacant lots, nor
shall any large rocks, appliances or other heavy objects shall be collected by
the town. HEAVY OBJECTS shall be determined by the Director of Public Works in
his or her sole discretion.
   (C)   No building materials or other waste resulting from structures under
construction or completed, renovation or demolition shall be collected by the
town.
   (D)   No waste resulting from the clearing of any lot shall be collected by
the town.
   (E)   The property owner or his or her tenant shall place items to be
collected in neat piles at the curbside or roadside for easy loading by the
town employees. The piles shall not impede sight or movement of vehicular
traffic on roads or streets.
(Ord. passed 6-1-1998; Ord. passed 12-6-2004; Ord. passed 7-1-2014)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 50.02  CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any person or company who is compensated for activities which generate
building material scraps, garbage, solid waste, or tree trimmings shall be
responsible for the removal and disposal of such items.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2014)  Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 51:  WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Control and supervision
   
51.02   Connection to water system
   
51.03   Deposit
   
51.04   Fees; monthly bill
   
51.05   Disconnection
   
51.06   Service termination and reinstatement
   
51.07   Tampering, damaging or obstructing system
   
51.08   Mandatory connection to water system
   
51.09   Municipal water required for sewer use
 
   
51.98   Late payment of water and sewer bills; civil remedies only
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The municipal water system of the town shall be under the general
control and supervision of the Board of Commissioners, and the system shall be
regulated and operated as the Board of Commissioners shall from time to time
direct.
   (B)   The regulations and rules that may be adopted by the Board of
Commissioners and recorded in the minutes of a regularly constituted or special
meeting of the Board of Commissioners shall have the force and effect of law as
if incorporated in this chapter.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a qualified person to
supervise the operation and regulation of the water system under the direction
of the Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners may assign the duties
of supervising the town water system to an employee of the town in addition to
other duties.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
§ 51.02  CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall make any connection to the
municipal water system unless and until application has been made to the town
for a connection and the required fees paid.
   (B)   Any connection made to the municipal water system shall be made by and
under the supervision of personnel of the town and any water meter installed
with the connection shall be deemed to be the property of the town.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1985)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03  DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Every applicant, lessee or homeowner for water service shall pay a
deposit and all other applicable fees. Deposit and additional fees shall be
paid prior to service activation and after submission of the service
application form.
   (B)   Where a new water service connection is installed for an applicant
(inside or outside town limits) the applicant shall pay all fees associated
with said installation.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1987; Ord. passed 7-1-2003; Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  FEES; MONTHLY BILL.
   (A)   Every person, firm, corporation or user connected to the municipal
water system shall pay a monthly fee based upon the amount of water consumed
and as recorded through the water meter for the connection.
   (B)   A current list of water rates shall be maintained on record in the
office of the Town Clerk and shall be available to any water customer upon
request.
   (C)   A monthly bill shall be generated each month for the water consumed
during the past billing period. Water consumption is based on the reading of
the water meter at each service location. Water meters are typically read
during the last week of each month, with consumption calculated as the
difference between the current meter reading and the reading of the prior
month.
   (D)   The monthly bill shall be generated on the last business day of each
month. For outstanding balances equal to or greater than $10 a past due charge
shall be assessed during the monthly billing process. In the event of technical
problems with the billing system, bills shall be generated on the earliest
business day.
   (E)   Any meter larger than two inches, and used in an industrial capacity,
shall be assessed a "meter fee" in addition to the monthly water consumption
charge.
   (F)   All fees and charges shall be reviewed each year by the Board of
Commissioners. The current water rate schedule, fees, and charges is hereby
incorporated by reference.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1985; Ord. passed 7-1-2003; Ord. passed 11-17-2005; Ord.
passed - - )  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  DISCONNECTION.
   If any water customer shall fail to pay his or her water bill and any
penalty within the prescribed time as set forth in the rules, orders or
regulations of the Board of Commissioners as set forth in the minutes of a
regularly constituted or special meeting, the Board may direct authorized
personnel to disconnect or cut off the water to the customer until the past due
bill and all penalties have been paid including a reconnection or cut-on fee as
prescribed by the Board. The Board of Commissioners does declare that the
timely payment of water bills by its customers is imperative and each customer
is hereby put on notice of this policy. Upon any disconnection or cut-off of
water from the main or meter to a customer, that customer or anyone in his or
her behalf shall not reconnect or cut on water from the main to the customer
until all fees and penalties have been paid to the town. Only authorized town
personnel are permitted to connect or cut the water back on from the main to
the customer.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1985)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  SERVICE TERMINATION AND REINSTATEMENT.
   (A)   When water service is terminated for non-payment of bills, the water
service application deposit shall be applied to the outstanding bill.
   (B)   If there are deposit funds remaining after the deposit is applied to
the outstanding bill, the excess shall be refunded to the customer. If a
portion of the bill remains outstanding, the town may proceed to collect the
balance, using any lawful procedure.
   (C)   Before service will be reinstated, the customer shall be required to
make full payment of any charges still outstanding on his or her account. In
addition, the customer shall also redeposit with the town an amount equal to
his or her application deposit or a deposit equaling the amount of the bill
outstanding at the time of termination, whichever is greater.
(Ord. passed 3-2-1987)
§ 51.07  TAMPERING, DAMAGING OR OBSTRUCTING SYSTEM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, damage or otherwise to
do harm to the water main, pipes, meters, tank or any other apparatus or other
part of the municipal water system or to place or cause to be placed any
substance or object of any nature whatsoever into the system that will be
harmful to the water, block or obstruct or impede the normal flow of the water
system. Only authorized personnel of the town are allowed to operate any phase
of the municipal water system including cut-off and cut-on valves and matters
concerning the water meter.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1985)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08  MANDATORY CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM.
   Every person, group of persons, firm or corporation owning or occupying a
dwelling, building or other structure which is used for either human
habitation, manufacturing, production of goods or materials, or occupancy for
any other purpose within the town situated on a lot or parcel of land which
abuts or adjoins a street or other public way, along which is located a
municipal water main or line, or to which a water main or line is accessible,
shall connect the dwelling, building or structure to the municipal water system
of the town. Water from private wells on the property shall not be used for
human consumption and habitation nor for manufacturing and other commercial
purposes in and at the dwelling, building or other structure.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09  MUNICIPAL WATER REQUIRED FOR SEWER USE.
   Every person, group of persons, firm or corporation, owning or occupying a
dwelling, building or other structure connected to the municipal sanitary sewer
system shall use only municipal water from the municipal water system in the
use of the municipal sewer system and in discharging sewage from the structures
into the municipal sanitary sewer system. It shall be illegal for any person,
groups of persons, firm or corporation to use water from a private well or
source other than the municipal water system in using the sewer system and
discharging sewage in the municipal sewer system.
(Ord. passed 6-4-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.98  LATE PAYMENT OF WATER AND SEWER BILLS; CIVIL REMEDIES ONLY.
   Notwithstanding any provision or application contained in this chapter, or
contained elsewhere in this code, failure to make timely payment of water and
sewer user bills is not a criminal offense and shall not be enforced under the
criminal laws of the State of North Carolina. The collection remedies,
including late fees, disconnection, and reconnection charges, are enforceable
by civil process only.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.07, and the rules and regulations adopted hereunder by the Board of
Commissioners as set forth in the minutes of a regular or special meeting of
the Board of Commissioners concerning the municipal water system, which are
incorporated herein, shall be subject to a civil penalty of $25, and
furthermore a violation of §§
51.01 through
51.07 shall be deemed a misdemeanor as provided by state law.
      (2)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously or willfully or
intentionally or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover deface or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of municipal
water system. Any person violating the provisions of §§
51.01 through
51.07 shall be subject to immediate arrest, and in addition that person shall
be liable to reimburse the town for any damages resulting from those
violations.
   (B)   Anyone violating provisions of §
51.08 shall be subject to a penalty of $50 in addition to being prosecuted for
the violation. Each and every violation of §
51.08 shall constitute and be deemed a continuing offense and shall be subject
to a penalty of $50, and continuing prosecution for the violation.
   (C)   Anyone violating provisions of §
51.09 shall be subject to a penalty of $50, in addition to being prosecuted for
the violation. Each and every violation shall constitute and be deemed a
continuing offense and shall be subject to a penalty of $50, and continuing
prosecution for the violation.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1985; Ord. passed 6-4-1990)
CHAPTER 52:  SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Purpose and policy
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Abbreviations
   
52.04   Regulations
   
52.05   Discharge of industrial wastewater
   
52.06   Sampling and monitoring
   
52.07   Enforcement
   
52.08   Revenue system
   
52.09   Authority, control and requirements
 
   
52.98   Late payment of water and sewer bills; civil remedies only
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
discharges into the wastewater disposal system for the town, and enables the
local government to comply with all applicable state and federal laws required
by the Clean Water Act of 1977 and the general pretreatment regulations (40
C.F.R. part 403).
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the discharge of pollutants into the wastewater disposal
system which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the discharge of pollutants into the wastewater disposal
system which will pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the wastewater
disposal system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
discharges to the POTW through the issuance of permits to certain nondomestic
users and through enforcement of general requirements for the other users,
authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires user reporting,
assumes that existing customer’s capacity will not be preempted and provides
for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution of costs resulting from
the program established herein.
   (D)   This chapter shall apply to the town and to persons outside the town
who are, by contract or agreement with the local government, users of the POTW.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Superintendent shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, as
amended.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY.  The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the Administrator of the EPA in a non-NPDES state or
NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.  An authorized representative
of an industrial user may be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
      (3)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated above
if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates.
   BILLABLE EXCESS BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).  A user’s loading in pounds
of BOD calculated using the billable flow and concentration of BOD in the
wastewater in excess of 400 mg/l.
   BILLABLE EXCESS CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD).  The user’s loading in pounds
of COD calculated using the billable flow and concentration of COD in the
wastewater in excess of 1,000 mg/l.
   BILLABLE EXCESS TOTAL KJELDAHL NITROGEN (TKN).  A user’s loading in pounds
of TKN calculated using the billable flow and concentration of TKN in the
wastewater in excess of 50 mg/l.
   BILLABLE EXCESS TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).  A user’s loading in pounds of
TSS calculated using the billable flow and concentration of TSS in the
wastewater in excess of 400 mg/l.
   BILLABLE FLOW.  A user’s recorded water usage as metered by the appropriate
water utility, plus metered water from wells and other sources, and less any
sewer-exempt metered data, times the local government approved percentage
factor for wastewater entering the wastewater disposal system out of the
metered water. Residential users on un-metered wells and users with no history
of BILLABLE FLOW shall have their billable flow estimated by averaging the
billable flow of other residential users of the same class.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD).  The quantity of oxygen, expressed in
milligrams per liter (mg/l) utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives sanitary or industrial wastewater only and is located
inside the walls of a building and conveys the wastewater to the building
sewer, which begins five feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal and conveys only sanitary or industrial wastewater.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS.  National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD).  The total amount of oxygen required to
oxidize all of the organic matter in a waste to carbon dioxide, water and
ammonia nitrogen by potassium dichromate under acid conditions as describe in
Standard Methods.
   CLASSES OF USERS.  The division of POTW customers by waste characteristics
and process discharge similarities or function, such as residential,
commercial, institutional, industrial or governmental.
   COLLECTION SEWER.  A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewaters
from individual point source discharges.
   COMMERCIAL USER.  A user engaged in the purchase or sale of goods or in a
transaction or business or who otherwise renders a service.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria; plus any additional pollutants’ identified in the POTW
NPDES permit, where the POTW is designed to treat the pollutants and, in fact,
does treat the pollutants to the degree required by the NPDES permit.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Approval Authority, defined hereinabove; or the
Superintendent if the local government has an approved pretreatment program
under the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.11.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   EASEMENT.  An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The US Environmental Protection
Agency, or where appropriate the term may also be used as a designation for the
Administrator or other duly authorized official of the agency.
   FLOATABLE OIL.  Oil, fat or grease in a physical state so that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility. A
wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is properly pre-
treated and the wastewater does not interfere with the wastewater disposal
system.
   GARBAGE.  The animal or vegetable wastes from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the commercial handling,
storage and sale of produce.
   HEALTH OFFICER.  Any person designated by the local government to be
responsible for maintaining sanitary conditions and reporting violations.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  All pollutants other than compatible pollutants as
defined.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE.  The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants from any source regulated under § 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1317), into the POTW (including holding tank waste).
   INDUSTRIAL USER.  A manufacturing or processing facility which is engaged in
a production or profit making venture. A source of indirect discharge which
does not constitute a “discharge of pollutants” under regulations issued
pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INFILTRATION.  The water unintentionally entering the public sewer system,
including sanitary building drains and sewers, from the ground through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW.  The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW.  The water discharge into the public sewer system, including
building drains and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to: roof
leaders, cellar, yard and area drains; foundation drains; unpolluted cooling
water discharges; drains from springs and swampy areas; manhole covers; cross
connections from storm sewers and/or combined sewers; catch basins; storm
waters; surface runoff; street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER.  A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport wastewater
to a treatment facility.
   INTERFERENCE.  The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirements of the
POTW’s NPDES permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the POTW in accordance with § 405 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1345) or
any criteria, guidelines or regulation developed pursuant to the Solid Waste
Disposal Act (SWDA), being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§
2601 et seq., or more stringent state criteria (including those contained in
any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Title IV of SWDA, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq.) applicable to the method of disposal or use employed
by the POTW.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  The Town of Conway, Northampton County, North Carolina
acting through its Mayor and Board of Commissioners.
   MAY.  Permissive.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in
accordance with § 307(b) and (c) or the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1347) which applies to
a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION PERMIT.  A permit issued under the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) for discharge of
wastewaters to the navigable waters of the United States.
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act, being 42
U.S.C. § 1317(b), and 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
surface water or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any source, the construction of which is commenced after the
publication of proposed regulations prescribing a § 307(c) (33 U.S.C. § 1317)
Categorical Pretreatment Standard which will be applicable to the source, if
the standard is thereafter promulgated within 120 days of proposal in the
federal register. Where the standard is promulgated later than 120 days after
proposal, a NEW SOURCE means any source, the construction of which is commenced
after the date of promulgation of the standard.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS.  Include all costs, direct and indirect,
not including debt service and capital related expenditures, but inclusive of
expenditures attributable to administration, monitoring, inspections, reviewing
applications, maintenance of equipment and treatment and collection of
wastewaters, necessary to ensure adequate wastewater collection and treatment
on a continuing basis which conforms to applicable regulations and assures
optimal long term facility management.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity or any
other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or assigns. The
masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the
plural where indicated by context.
   pH.  The term used to express the intensity of the acid or base condition of
a solution as determined by Standard Methods.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes of other means, except as prohibited by 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a National Pretreatment Standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRIVATE SEWER.  A sewer which is not owned by the Town of Conway.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).  A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned by the town. This definition
includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant, but
does not include pipes, sewers or other conveyances not connected to a facility
providing treatment. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include
any sewers that convey wastewaters from persons outside the town who are, by
contract or agreement with the local government, users of the POTW.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS.  The capital expenditures for obtaining and installing
equipment, accessories or appurtenances necessary during the service life of
the POTW to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works were
designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sanitary and/or industrial
wastewaters from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions. SANITARY SEWERS are separate and distinct from storm sewers and
are not intended to carry surface runoff or groundwater.
   SHALL.  Mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.  Any industrial user of the POTW who: has a
discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work day; or has a flow
greater than 5% of the flow in the POTW; or has in his or her wastes toxic
substances as defined pursuant to § 307 of the Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 1317, or
(state) statutes and rules; or is found by the local government, Division of
Environmental Management, (DEM) or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries on the wastewater disposal system, the quality of
sludge, the system’s effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the
system.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period duration longer
than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration or flow
during normal operation and shall adversely affect the wastewater disposal
system so as to prevent attainment of effluent limitations or to substantially
increase operation and maintenance requirements.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STANDARD METHODS.  The laboratory procedures set forth in the following
sources: Standard Method for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 14th
Edition, as amended, prepared and published jointly by the American Public
Health Association, American Water Works Association and Water Pollution
Control Federation; Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes, 1971,
prepared and published by the Analytical Quality Control Laboratory, U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency; Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for
the Analysis of Pollutants, enumerated in 40 C.F.R. §§ 136.1 et seq. (1975), as
amended; and/or any other procedures recognized by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency and the North Carolina Division of Environmental Management.
   STATE.  The State of North Carolina.
   STORM SEWER.  A sewer that carries only storm waters, surface runoff, street
wash and drainage, and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastewater is not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Board of Commissioners of the Town of Conway, or its
authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   TOTAL KJELDHAL NITROGEN (TKN).  The organic nitrogen and ammonia nitrogen
content of a wastewater as determined by “Standard Methods”.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).  Total suspended matter that either floats on
the surface of, or is in suspension with, water, wastewater or other liquids
and is removable by laboratory filtration as prescribed in Standard Methods.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCES. Any substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid, which
when discharged into the wastewater disposal system in sufficient quantities
may tend to interfere with any wastewater treatment process, or to constitute a
hazard to recreation in the receiving waters of the effluent from the POTW.
These substances in elude but are not limited to those listed as toxic in
regulations promulgated by the EPA under the provisions of CWA § 307(a), being
42 U.S.C. § 1317(a), or other acts.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER.  Water of a quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that is of sufficient quality that it would not be
in violation of federal or state water quality standards if the water were
discharged into navigable waters of the state.
   USEFUL LIFE.  The anticipated term in years of physical and/or functional
productivity of elements and/or the whole of the wastewater disposal system.
   USER.  Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   USER CHARGE SYSTEM.  The system of charges levied on users for the cost of
operation and maintenance, including replacement reserve requirements on new
and old wastewater collection and treatment facilities.
   WASTEWATER.  The combination of the liquid- and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, including
polluted cooling water and unintentionally admitted infiltration/inflow.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER.  A combination of liquid and water carried
wastes discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment and shall include the wastes
from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water.
      (2)   SANITARY WASTEWATER.  The combination of liquid and water carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT.  As set forth in §
52.05 below.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  The structures, equipment and processes owned
and controlled by the town (unless specified otherwise) required to collect,
transport and treat domestic and industrial wastes and to dispose of the
effluent and accumulated residual solids.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, water courses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained with, flow
through or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
§ 52.03  ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD.  Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R.  Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD.  Chemical oxygen demand.
   CWA.  Clean Water Act.
   DEM.  Division of Environmental Management, Department of Natural Resources
and Community Development of the State of North Carolina.
   EPA.  Environmental Protection Agency.
   l.  Liter.
   mg.  Milligrams.
   mg/l.  Milligrams per liter.
   NH3-N.  Ammonia nitrogen.
   NPDES.  National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   POTW.  Publicly owned treatment works.
   SIC.  Standard industrial classification.
   SWDA.  Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
   TKN.  Total kjeldhal nitrogen.
   TSS.  Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C.  United States Code.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
§ 52.04  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Use of public sewers required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to
be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town any wastewater or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and with regulations of
the Division of Environmental Management, Department of Natural Resources and
Community Development of the state. Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be
unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool
or other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
      (3)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town, is hereby
required at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provision of this chapter, within 90 days after date of
official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within 150 feet of
the property line.
   (B)   Private wastewater disposal.
      (1)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available, the building sewer
shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal system complying with the
provisions of this section.
         (a)   Before commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner(s) shall first obtain written approval by the
Superintendent.
         (b)   The application for the permit shall be made on a form furnished
by the local government which the applicant shall supplement by any plans,
specifications and other information as are deemed necessary by the
Superintendent.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee established by the Superintendent shall
be paid to the local government at the time the application is filed. Approval
for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become effective until the
installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent. The
Superintendent shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction.
      (3)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the Department of
Public Health and Division of Environmental Management of the state. No permit
shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal system employing subsurface
soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 20,000 square
feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural
outlet.
      (4)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
local government.
      (5)   At a time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within 60 days. Under unusual and/or special circumstances,
the local government may waive this provision.
   (C)   Building sewers and connections.
      (1)   Except as provided herein, each separate dwelling, structure or
other building shall have a separate connection to the system, however,
apartments or other multi-use, or occupancy building, and approved bonafide
trailer courts may have one combined connection.
      (2)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining written approval from the Superintendent.
      (3)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be born by the owner(s). The owner(s)
shall indemnify the local government from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer provided,
however, that the indemnification shall not extend to loss or damage due solely
to willful misconduct or negligence on the part of the local government.
      (4)   Excluding industrial plant sites or other sites which have written
approval from the Superintendent for single discharge points, a separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private
sewer is available or can be constructed up the rear building through an
adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway, the front building may be extended to
the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer; but the local
government does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for
damage caused by or resulting from any such single connection aforementioned.
Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when they
are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Existing building sewers may be kept in service if, in the opinion
of the Superintendent, they are in acceptable structural condition and operate
satisfactorily. All new building sewers including any necessary replacement of
existing building sewers must comply with the State Building Code, Volume II,
Plumbing. The connection of the building sewer into the public sanitary sewer
shall be made at the “Y” branch, if the branch is available at a suitable
location. If the public sewer is 12 inches in diameter or less, and no properly
located “Y” branch is available the owner shall, at his or her expense, install
a “Y” branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the
Superintendent. Where the public sewer is greater than 12 inches in diameter,
and no properly located “Y” branch is available, a neat hole may be cut into
the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the downstream
direction at an angle of about 45 degrees. A 45-degree ell may be used to make
the connection, with the spigot end cut so as not to extend past the inner
surface of the public sewer. The invert of the building sewer at the point of
connection shall be at the same or at a higher elevation than the invert of the
public sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the connection made secure
and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the
connection only when approved by the Superintendent.
      (6)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof down spouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of infiltration/inflow to a building
sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a
public sanitary sewer.
      (7)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the local government.
      (8)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to keep and
maintain the building sewer connected to the public sewer in good repair. The
owner shall be responsible for making necessary repairs, at his or her own
expense, to the building sewer when notified in writing by the local government
that repairs are necessary. Should the owner fail to repair the building sewer
within 60 days after receiving written notification by the local government
that the repairs are necessary, the local government may make the necessary
repairs to the building sewer and shall assess the owner for the cost of
repairs.
      (9)   Grease, oil and sand interceptor sewers shall be provided when, in
the opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing floatable oil in excessive amounts, sand or other
harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Superintendent, and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Where installed, all
grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner at his or
her expense in continuously efficient operation at all times. In the
maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the
proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the captured material and
shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently
licensed waste disposal firms.
   (D)   Prohibited discharges.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
and/or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all the
users of the POTW whether or not the user is subject to National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or any other national, state or local pretreatment
standards or requirements.
      (2)   A user may not discharge the following substances to the POTW:
         (a)   Any unpolluted waters such as infiltration/inflow to any
sanitary sewer. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to the sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a
natural outlet approved by the Superintendent and DEM. Unpolluted industrial
cooling water or process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Superintendent and DEM to a storm sewer or natural outlet. No sanitary
wastewater shall be discharged into a storm sewer system;
         (b)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at
any point in the system) be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the
lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter. Materials specifically prohibited
from discharge into the POTW include gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, fuel oil and
any other substances which the local government, the state or EPA has notified
the user is a fire hazard or a hazard to the system;
         (c)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the POTW such as,
but not limited to: floatable oil, garbage with particles greater than one-half
inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair,
hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand,
spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas,
tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
         (d)   Any wastewater having a pH less than six or greater than nine,
or wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment and/or personnel of the POTW;
         (e)   Any wastewater containing toxic substances in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or
interfere with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans
or animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or to
exceed the limitation set forth in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard;
         (f)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
         (g)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process where the
POTW is pursuing a reuse and reclamation program. In no case shall a substance
discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to fail to be in compliance with sludge
use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under § 405 of
the Act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or
disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act,
the Toxic Substances Control Act or state criteria applicable to the sludge
management method being used;
         (h)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
and/or state disposal system permit or the receiving water quality standards;
         (i)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
         (j)   Any wastewater, liquid or vapors having a temperature higher
than 150°F;
         (k)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and
the like) released at a flow and/or pollutant concentration which a user knows
or has reason to know will cause interference;
         (l)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
a half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the local
government in compliance with applicable state and/or federal regulations; and
         (m)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
slug as defined herein.
      (3)   When the Superintendent determines that a user(s) is discharging
any of the above enumerated substances in amounts as to interfere with the
operation of the POTW, the Superintendent shall:
         (a)   Advise the user(s) of the impact of the discharge; and
         (b)   Develop effluent limitation(s) for the user to correct the
discharge.
   (E)   Federal categorical pretreatment standards. Upon the promulgation of
the federal categorical pretreatment standards for a particular industrial
subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent than limitations imposed
under this chapter for sources in that subcategory, shall immediately supersede
the limitations imposed under this chapter. The Superintendent shall notify all
affected users of the applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. §
403.12.
   (F)   Modification of federal categorical pretreatment standards.
      (1)   Where the POTW achieves consistent removal of pollutants limited by
federal pretreatment standards, the local government may apply to the approval
authority for modification of specific limits in the federal pretreatment
standards.
      (2)   CONSISTENT REMOVAL shall mean reduction in the amount of a
pollutant or alteration of the nature of the pollutant by the POTW to a less
toxic or harmless state in the effluent which is achieved by the system 95% of
the samples taken when measured according to the procedures set forth in §
403.7(c)(2) of 40 C.F.R. part 403, General Pretreatment Regulations for
Existing and New Sources of Pollution promulgated pursuant to the Act. The
local government may then modify pollutant discharge limits in the Federal
Pretreatment Standards if the requirements contained in 40 C.F.R. part 403, §
403.7 are fulfilled and prior approval from the Approval Authority is obtained.
   (G)   Specific pollutant limitations.
      (1)   No discharge shall contain pollutant concentrations exceeding the
following prohibitive limits (maximum for any day based on composite samples).
If a user is not a significant industrial user as defined herein; can
demonstrate that he or she is making every feasible effort to comply with the
provisions of division (D) above; and can demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Superintendent that attempting to comply with the provisions of this
division (G) is economically and practically infeasible and will cause economic
hardship; then the local government may waive the provisions of this division
(G).
      (2)   The local government may require payment to cover the costs of
handling and treating the pollutants in excess of that enumerated below from
user’s which have received waiver:
         (a)   0.01 mg/l arsenic;
         (b)   1.5 mg/l antimony;
         (c)   0.1 mg/l cadmium;
         (d)   5.0 mg/l copper;
         (e)   20.0 mg/l iron;
         (f)   0.5 mg/l lead;
         (g)   0.01 mg/l mercury;
         (h)   5.0 mg/l nickel;
         (i)   0.5 mg/l hexavalent chromium;
         (j)   5.0 mg/l total chromium;
         (k)   0.1 mg/l selenium;
         (l)   0.1 mg/l silver;
         (m)   5.0 mg/l zinc;
         (n)   10.0 mg/l total of above heavy metals (excluding iron);
         (o)   1.0 mg/l cyanide;
         (p)   5.0 mg/l phenolic compounds;
         (q)   800 mg/l biochemical oxygen demand;
         (r)   1600 mg/l chemical oxygen demand;
         (s)   100 mg/l oil and grease;
         (t)   600 mg/l total suspended solids; and
         (u)   80 mg/l total kjeldahl nitrogen.
   (H)   State requirements. State requirements and limitations on discharges
shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than federal requirements
and limitations or those in this chapter.
   (I)   Local government’s right of revision. The local government reserves
the right to establish by amendment more stringent limitations or requirements
on discharges to the wastewater disposal system if deemed necessary to comply
with the objectives presented in §
52.01 above.
   (J)   Dilution prohibition. No user shall ever increase the use of process
water or, in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations
contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standards, or in any other
pollutant-specific limitation developed by the local government or state.
   (K)   Accidental discharge.
      (1)   Each user shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter.
         (a)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge of prohibited
materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner or user’s own cost and
expense.
         (b)   Detailed plans showing facilities and operating procedures to
provide this protection shall be submitted to the Superintendent for review,
and shall be approved by the local government before construction of the
facility.
         (c)   All existing users shall complete such a plan by January 1,
1985. No user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date
of this chapter shall be permitted to introduce pollutants until accidental
discharge procedures have been approved by the local government.
         (d)   Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures shall
not relieve the responsibility to modify the facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
         (e)   In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility
of the user to immediately telephone and notify the Superintendent of the
incident.
         (f)   The notification shall include location of discharge, type of
waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions.
      (2)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the Superintendent a detailed written report describing the cause of
the discharge and the measures to be taken to prevent similar future
occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage or other damage to person or property; nor shall the notification
relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other liability which may be
imposed by this section, or other applicable law.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees whom to call in the event of a
dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause a
like discharge to occur or suffer from the discharge are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05  DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   Any person who is now discharging any industrial wastewater into
the wastewater disposal system or who desires to discharge any industrial
wastewater shall complete an official application and file it with the local
government.
      (2)   Approval shall be evidenced by written notice from the
Superintendent. Any person now so discharging industrial wastewater shall
complete and file an application within 180 days from the date of passage of
this chapter.
      (3)   Any person desiring to commence discharging industrial wastewater
after this chapter becomes effective shall complete and file an application in
order to obtain discharge permission from the local government prior to
commencing the discharge of the wastes into the wastewater disposal system.
   (B)   Contents of application.
      (1)   Contents of application:
         (a)   Name, address and location, (if different from the address);
         (b)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in §
52.04(D) and (G) above, as determined by a qualified laboratory; sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as
amended;
         (d)   Time and duration of discharge;
         (e)   Average daily and three-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all building drains, building sewers and appurtenances by the
size, location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any local government, state or federal
pretreatment standards, and a statement regarding whether or not the
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether
additional O&M and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet
applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide the additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall
not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like);
            2.   No increment referred to in division (B)(1)(i)1. above shall
exceed nine months; and
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on that date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
         (l)   Number of type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
         (m)   Any other information as may be deemed by the local government
to be necessary to evaluate the application.
      (2)   The Superintendent will evaluate the date furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
provided, the local government will grant permission to discharge subject to
the terms and conditions provided herein.
      (3)   Significant industrial users which through changes in the use of
the premises or water usage cause a significant change in wastewater volume,
strength or characteristic shall require a new application filed prior to
making the change or alteration.
   (C)   Permit modifications. Within nine months of the promulgation of a
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater discharge permit of
users subject to those standards shall be revised to require compliance with
that standard within the time frame prescribed by that standard. Where a user,
subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard, has not previously
submitted an application for a wastewater discharge permit as required by
division (A) above, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical
pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing wastewater
discharge permit shall submit to the local government within 180 days after the
promulgation of an applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard the
information required by division (B)(1)(h) and (i) above.
   (D)   Control structure.
      (1)   When required by the local government, the owner of any property
served by a building sewer carrying nonresidential wastewater shall build a
control structure in the building sewer from his or her premises just prior to
the entrance of the building sewer into the public sewer suitable for sampling
and measuring his or her wastewater. Plans for this structure shall be approved
by the local government. There shall be ample room in or near the sampling
facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
The facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times
in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the owner.
      (2)   Each sampling chamber shall contain a Parshall flume, weir or
similar device with a recording and totalizing register for measuring liquid
quantity; or the metered water supply to the industrial plant may be used as a
measure of liquid quantity where it is substantiated by the Superintendent that
the metered water supply and waste quantities are approximately the same or
where a measurable adjustment agreed to by the local government is made in the
metered water supply to determine the liquid waste quantity.
   (E)   Authority of local government to furnish technical advice. The local
government is authorized to consult with and furnish technical assistance and
advice to industrial users of the wastewater disposal system in order to assist
them in devising procedures and constructing equipment to reduce or eliminate
from industrial wastewater objectionable characteristics or properties which
may not otherwise be discharged into the wastewater disposal system under this
chapter.
   (F)   Notice of process change/interruption of operation. Notice by the user
shall be given to the Superintendent in advance or at the earliest possible
time when normal operations of the industry will be interrupted for 24 hours or
longer, when wastes will not be available for discharge, or prior to
implementation of a process change which will alter demands on the POTW.
   (G)   User records. Any user shall maintain and retain for three years all
plant records relating to wastewater discharges as specified by the local
government and afford the local government access thereto. These records
include but are not limited to production records, wastewater self-monitoring
records and state and EPA required records.
   (H)   Transfer of discharge permission.
      (1)   Wastewater discharge permission is issued to a specific industrial
user for a specific operation.
      (2)   Wastewater discharge permission shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation without the approval of the local government.
      (3)   Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and
conditions of the ordinance. Written requests for transfer of discharge
permission shall be made to the Superintendent.
   (I)   Confidentiality.
      (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, discharge applications and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the local government that the release of
that information would divulge information, processes or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user. When requested by the
person furnishing the report, the portions of a report which might disclose
trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by
the public. It will, however, be made available upon written request to
governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the national pollutant
discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit, state disposal system permit and/
or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that those portions of a
report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics shall not be recognized as
confidential information.
      (2)   Information accepted by the local government as confidential shall
not be given to any governmental agency or to the general public by the local
government until and unless a ten-day notification is given to the user.
   (J)   Pretreatment.
      (1)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all federal
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the local government shall be constructed,
operated and maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review, and shall be acceptable to the local government
before construction of the facility. The review of the plans and operating
procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying
the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the local
government under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the local government prior to the user’s initiation of the
changes.
      (2)   The local government shall annually publish in the local newspaper
a list of the users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment
requirements or standards at least once during the 12 previous months. The
notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the
user(s) during the same 12 months.
      (3)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available to officials of the EPA, the state or other approval
authority upon request.
   (K)   Special industrial discharges.
      (1)   Any person engaging in the activities permitted by this section
shall be referred to as contractors. Contractors shall be permitted to empty
septic tank sludge or wastes from chemical toilets into the POTW at the
designated structure located at the wastewater treatment plant.
      (2)   This discharge is subject to the following limitations and
conditions:
         (a)   The contractor must empty all wastes only at the designated
structure at the wastewater treatment plant and must keep this area maintained
and clean;
         (b)   The contractor must provide accurate and complete information as
to the origin of the septic tank waste;
         (c)   Any discharge of any waste other than the domestic type from a
septic tank contractor is forbidden without special permission from the local
government and only after laboratory analyses of the waste. The cost of the
laboratory analyses shall be paid by the contractor;
         (d)   Septic tank contractors shall purchase books of permit tickets
from the local government to enable them to discharge wastes at the wastewater
treatment plant. The driver of the septic tank vehicle shall present the
completed ticket to the operator on duty. The permit ticket shall include the
name of the individual, firm or corporation responsible for the waste, the name
of the driver, the date and time of discharge and the name, address and
telephone number of the owner of each premises where the waste was collected;
         (e)   Spot checks of septic tank wastes shall be made at the
discretion of the Superintendent and laboratory analyses performed. Should any
waste be found in violation of any section or division of the ordinance the
following penalties shall be assessed the contractor:
            1.   First offense: $100 penalty;
            2.   Second offense: $250 penalty; and
            3.   Third offense: permission to discharge septic tank wastes into
the POTW shall be revoked
         (f)   A contractor may apply to the local government to regain
permission to empty septic tank wastes and shall have all septic tank waste
checked and analyzed until the Superintendent is satisfied that no more
violations have occurred. The cost of the laboratory analyses shall be paid by
the contractor.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
§ 52.06  SAMPLING AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry. Whenever it shall be necessary for the purposes of
this chapter and upon presentation of proper credentials and identification,
local government personnel shall be permitted to enter upon any property of
wastewater disposal system users for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling or testing in the area of control and/or sampling
facility. Any person completing and filing an application to discharge
wastewater under §
52.05 above shall thereby grant the local government permission to enter his or
her premises for those purposes. Where a user has security measures in force
which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into their
premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards
so that upon presentation of suitable identification, local government
personnel will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
   (B)   Compliance determination. Compliance determinations with respect to §
52.04 prohibitions and limitations shall be made on the basis of composite
samples of wastewater. Composite samples may be taken over a 24-hour period, or
over a longer time span, as determined necessary by the Superintendent to meet
the needs of specific circumstances.
   (C)   Analysis of industrial wastewaters. All measurements, tests and
analyses of the characteristics or properties of waters and wastes to which
reference is made in this chapter shall be made in accordance with Standard
Methods, herein defined, and shall be performed by a qualified laboratory.
   (D)   Sampling frequency. Sampling of industrial wastewater for the purpose
of compliance determination with respect to §
52.04 prohibitions and limitations will be done at intervals as the
Superintendent may designate. However, it is the intention of the local
government to conduct compliance sampling or to cause the sampling to be
conducted for all significant industrial users at least twice in every one-year
period.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
§ 52.07  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Revocation of permission to discharge.
      (1)   The local government may order a permission to discharge be revoked
upon finding that the discharger has violated a provision of this chapter. A
user whose permission to discharge has been revoked shall immediately stop all
discharges of any liquid-carried wastes.
      (2)   The local government may disconnect or permanently block from the
wastewater disposal system the private sewer of any discharger whose permission
to discharge has been revoked if the action is necessary to ensure compliance
with the order of revocation.
      (3)   A user whose permission to discharge has been revoked shall apply
for new permission to discharge and pay all delinquent fees, charges, penalties
and other sums as may be due to the local government.
      (4)   Costs incurred to revoke the prior permission to discharge and
disconnecting the private sewer shall be paid for by the discharger before new
permission to discharge shall be granted.
   (B)   Reasons for revocation of permission to discharge. Any user who
violates the following conditions of this chapter or applicable state and
federal regulations is subject to having his or her permission to discharge
revoked in accordance with the procedures in division (A) above:
      (1)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of his or her discharge;
      (2)   Failure of a user to report significant changes in operations, or
wastewater constituents or characteristics;
      (3)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection or monitoring; or
      (4)   Violation of §
52.04(D), (G), (J) and (K) above.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
§ 52.08  REVENUE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Fees shall be assessed to users for wastewater discharges into the
POTW and for executing or enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These charges shall be developed by the Superintendent and approved by
the local government no less frequently than biannually in accordance with the
user charge system and other ordinances and policies of the local government
and applicable statutes of the state.
   (C)   Charges shall be developed for the following purposes:
      (1)   Industrial monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
      (2)   Reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
      (3)   Reviewing permit application;
      (4)   Reviewing appeals;
      (5)   Special industrial discharges;
      (6)   Toxic substance discharges to the POTW;
      (7)   Recovering capital related expenditures; and
      (8)   Other charges, including user charges based on billable flow and
excessive pollutant discharges to the POTW, necessary to recover the operation
and maintenance costs of the wastewater disposal system.
   (D)   Charges for items in divisions (C)(1) through (6) above shall be based
on the actual cost to the local government for each specific user or incident.
However, a fixed rate may be proposed by the Superintendent, subject to local
government approval, for those procedures that are repetitive and do not differ
substantially within each class of users. Charges for items in divisions (C)(7)
and (8) above shall be developed and assessed in accordance with the user
charge system. The local government may, under applicable state statutes and
local government ordinances, levy ad valorem taxes for general obligation bond
principal and interest payments, and any other purpose provided by law, not
related to the operation and maintenance costs of the wastewater disposal
system.
   (E)   The charges and fees developed in accordance with the provisions of
this section shall be presented to the local government for approval in the
form of a sewer rate ordinance.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
§ 52.09  AUTHORITY, CONTROL AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter is adopted under the authority granted by G.S.
Ch. 160A.
   (B)   Control and supervision. The sanitary sewer system of the town shall
be under the general control and supervision of the Board of Commissioners and
the system shall be regulated and operated as the Board of Commissioners shall
from time to time ordain and direct. The Board of Commissioners shall appoint a
qualified person to supervise the operation and regulation of the system, under
the direction of the Board of Commissioners and the person appointed shall be
known as Superintendent of Sewerage, or the Board of Commissioners may assign
the duties of supervising the sewer system to an employee of the town in
addition to his or her other duties.
   (C)   Permit for connection required. No person, firm or corporation shall
make any connection to the sanitary sewer system unless and until a permit
therefor has been issued by the town. Permits shall be issued for connections
only after the Superintendent has determined the type of connection required,
the type of waste to be placed in the system and if required by the town an
approved plumbing system within the dwelling, building or structure desiring
the connection.
   (D)   Work on connections. All connections to the sanitary sewer system
shall be made by authorized employees of the town in accordance with
specification for the connections that may be adopted by the town from time to
time. If authorized by the Board of Commissioners, connections may be made by
plumbers licensed to perform plumbing work in the state, and by personnel duly
approved and certified by the Board of Commissioners to perform the work. Any
sewer connections made by authorized personnel shall be inspected by the
Superintendent after the work has been completed and prior to the time the
connection is covered.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
§ 52.98  LATE PAYMENT OF WATER AND SEWER BILLS; CIVIL REMEDIES ONLY.
   Notwithstanding any provision or application contained in this chapter, or
contained elsewhere in this code, failure to make timely payment of water and
sewer user bills is not a criminal offense and shall not be enforced under the
criminal laws of the State of North Carolina. The collection remedies,
including late fees, disconnection, and reconnection charges, are enforceable
by civil process only.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, except
divisions (C) and (D) below, shall be served by the local government with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in the notice, cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in the aforementioned notice of violation shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor pursuant to state law and on correction thereof shall be assessed a
penalty in the amount not exceeding $500 for each violation. Each day in which
any violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously or willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenances or equipment which is a part of the wastewater disposal system.
Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest. In
addition, the person shall be liable to reimburse the local government for any
damages resulting from the violations.
   (D)   If a public sewer becomes obstructed or damaged because of any
substances improperly discharged into it, the person(s) responsible for the
discharge shall be billed and shall pay for the expenses incurred by the local
government in cleaning out, repairing or rebuilding the sewer as well as
damages incurred by the local government arising from claims of private
property owners which are caused by the obstruction or damage.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER RATES
Section
   
53.01   Tap and connection fee
   
53.02   User fees
 
   
53.98   Late payment of water and sewer bills; civil remedies only
§ 53.01  TAP AND CONNECTION FEE.
   Sewer fees are adopted each year by the Board of Commissioners as a part of
its annual budget process. The town's current fee list for sewer services is
hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984; Ord. passed 7-12-2004; Ord. passed - - )
§ 53.02  USER FEES.
   (A)   The Town Board of Commissioners shall review, at least annually, the
town’s sanitary sewer user charge system, and shall revise the charges
periodically, as needed, to reflect the actual costs and expenses of the system
including actual treatment work, operation, maintenance and replacement costs.
The town’s current list of water and sewer rates is hereby incorporated by
reference.
   (B)   The town’s user charge system shall be designed to produce revenue
adequate to cover the system costs including operation, maintenance and
replacement.
      (1)   The system shall provide that each user which discharges pollutants
to the system, causing an increase in the cost of managing the effluent or
sludge from the treatment works shall pay for the increased costs.
      (2)   Where extra strength wastes are treated by the town, the user
contributing the wastes shall be charged as follows:
         (a)   BOD (in excess of 300 ppm) at $35/1,000 pounds BOD; and
         (b)   SS (in excess of 300 ppm) at $35/1,000 pounds SS.
   (C)   The town shall notify each user, at least annually in conjunction with
a regular bill, of the current rate and of that portion of the user charges
which are attributable to wastewater treatment services.
   (D)   The town’s user charge system shall have precedence over any previous
terms, conditions or contracts which are inconsistent with the requirements of
§ 204(1)(A) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284 (Pub. L. 92-500),
and Federal Register 40 C.F.R. § 25.2140(g).
   (E)   The town does adopt a user charge system which will establish its rate
by charging a fixed fee plus a “variable cost” rate.
      (1)   The “fixed fee” portion shall be arrived at by determining the non-
variable system costs and proportioning them equally to all users.
      (2)   These costs shall include such items as bond expenses, some wages
and office expenses.
      (3)   The “variable cost” rate shall include all variable (flow-related)
costs and shall charge the user based upon the amount of flow he or she
generates.
   (F)   Based upon a fixed fee plus a variable cost rate formula established
by engineers for the town and approved by state/EPA officials, the current
monthly sanitary sewer user charge shall be at the following rate:
In-Town Sewer Rate Schedule
Minimum charge               $12.35
Per 1,000 gallons water      $2.35
Out-of-Town Sewer Rate Schedule
Minimum charge               $24.70
Per 1,000 gallons water      $4.70
Definition of minimum charge 0 to 2,000 gallons
Mobile home parks will be billed as follows: total consumption divided by the
number of units equals gallons used per unit. Use sewer rate chart to charge
per unit. See example below.
Example: 50,000 gallons total consumption divided by 10 units equal 5,000
gallons; 5,000 gallons of sewer is $20; 10 units times $20 equals $200
 
(Ord. passed 8-15-1984; Ord. passed 11-17-2005; Ord. passed - - )
§ 53.98  LATE PAYMENT OF WATER AND SEWER BILLS; CIVIL REMEDIES ONLY.
   Notwithstanding any provision or application contained in this chapter, or
contained elsewhere in this code, failure to make timely payment of water and
sewer user bills is not a criminal offense and shall not be enforced under the
criminal laws of the State of North Carolina. The collection remedies,
including late fees, disconnection, and reconnection charges, are enforceable
by civil process only.
(Ord. passed - -)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   General speed limit
   
70.02   Speed limits
   
70.03   Traffic and parking regulations
   
70.04   Parking prohibited in certain locations
   
70.05   Obedience to signs, markers or devices
   
70.06   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement
   
70.07   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.08   Display of unauthorized signs
   
70.09   Interference with traffic-control devices
   
70.10   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.11   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.12   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.13   No truck traffic on certain streets
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01  GENERAL SPEED LIMIT.
   No person may drive a vehicle on a street or in a public vehicular area in
excess of 35 mph, unless a different speed is established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02  SPEED LIMITS.
   Whenever a speed limit has been established and appropriate traffic-control
devices have been installed in accordance with Chapter 72, Sch. I, no person
may operate a vehicle on any street in excess of the posted speed.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Traffic and parking regulations shall be established by
ordinance.
      (2)   When a new traffic or parking ordinance is adopted, the Chief of
Police shall make certain that the appropriate sign, traffic-control or signal
or other markings are made to give the public notice of the regulation.
   (B)   A list of all town traffic and parking regulations shall be maintained
in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)
§ 70.04  PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle or permit it to stand in any of the
following locations:
      (1)   In front of a private driveway;
      (2)   Within 15 feet in either direction of a fire hydrant or the
entrance to the fire or rescue station;
      (3)   Within 15 feet of the intersection of curb lines, or if none,
within 15 feet of property lines at an intersection of streets;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a marked crosswalk;
      (5)   On a sidewalk;
      (6)   On any portion of a roadway intended to carry traffic at the time
the vehicle is parked or left standing;
      (7)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at
the edge of a curb or street; or
      (8)   In any parking space clearly marked as reserved for the
handicapped, whether on public or private property, unless the driver of the
vehicle is handicapped.
   (B)   No traffic-control devices shall be required for the enforcement of
this section.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS, MARKERS OR DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated
on any sign, marker or device for the control of traffic or regulation of
parking erected or placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   This section shall not apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise
directed by a police officer, or when an exception is granted to the driver of
an emergency vehicle.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06  SIGNS AS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against a violator if at the time and place of the violation an official sign
is not in the proper position and sufficiently legible to an ordinarily
observant person.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)
§ 70.07  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights, the following colors only shall be displayed and the
lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians, as
follows:
   (A)   Green:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left, unless a sign is erected to indicate otherwise, and shall
yield to the right-of-way to oncoming traffic and other pedestrians lawfully
within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is
exhibited; and
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or stop signal shall be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be in the process of crossing the intersection when
the red or stop signal is exhibited; and
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green signal is displayed.
   (C)   Red:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until the green signal is
displayed; however, if a sign is not erected prohibiting turns on red lights,
the vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to a complete stop; and
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless the
green signal is displayed or unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian walk
signal.
   (D)   Green with green arrow:
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the light may turn in the direction of the
arrow without yielding the right-of-way; and
      (2)   Pedestrians shall not enter the intersection until after traffic
has passed.
   (E)   In the event a traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at a
place other than an intersection,  the provisions of this section shall apply
except as to those provisions by which their very nature can have no
application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)
§ 70.08  DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS.
   No person shall place, maintain or display on or in view of any street any
unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or is in
imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, sign or signal or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device, sign
or signal.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, damage or remove any official traffic-control device, sign or signal or
any inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any part thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10  AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all towns traffic regulations and all state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are authorized to direct all traffic
by voice, hand or signal in conformity with town and state traffic laws,
provided that in the event of fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)
§ 70.11  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a Police officer or Fire Department officer.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.12  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter regulating the operation, parking and
standing of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, except as
provided otherwise by law.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)
§ 70.13  NO TRUCK TRAFFIC ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   Trucks weighing two tons or more, not taking on or discharging goods
within the town limits, are barred from all town maintained streets within the
town limits.
   (B)   School buses are exempt from this section.
   (C)   Farm related, construction, forestry related and emergency vehicles
are exempt from this section.
   (D)   Appropriate signs shall be posted to indicate this section.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   In accordance with G.S. § 160A-175, violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor as provided in G.S. § 14-4, punishable by fine
not exceeding $50, or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days.
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   No parking
   
71.02   Parking on wrong side of street
   
71.03   Fire hydrants
   
71.04   Entrance to fire station
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  NO PARKING.
   (A)   No motor vehicle nor any vehicle or conveyance not operated by a motor
shall be parked in any space on the streets or this town which is designated as
a no-parking zone by appropriate signs and or lettered.
   (B)   The provisions of this section are not to apply to any police officer
or peace officer of this town, county and state, nor to any person who because
of a mechanical failure of his or her vehicle or any emergency has to park his
or her vehicle in a no-parking zone.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  PARKING ON WRONG SIDE OF STREET.
   No motor vehicle nor any vehicle not operated by a motor shall park in any
parking space parallel to the streets of this town, except when parked on the
right-hand side of the street, in the direction toward which he or she was
driving when he or she parked.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No motor vehicle nor any vehicle not operated by a motor shall park on the
streets of this town within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  ENTRANCE TO FIRE STATION.
   No motor vehicle nor any vehicle not operated by a motor shall park at the
front entrance of the town fire station at any time.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone violating §
71.01 shall be subject to a penalty of $1.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
   (C)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
71.02 shall be subject to a penalty of $1.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
   (D)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
71.03 shall be subject to a penalty of $10. A second violation of §
71.03 shall subject the individual to a penalty of $15.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
   (E)   Anyone violating §
71.04 shall be subject to a penalty of $5. A second violation of §
71.04 shall subject the individual to a penalty of $10.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
CHAPTER 72:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limits; generally.
      (1)   Speed limit; residential section. No person shall operate any
vehicle on any street, which is not a part of the state highway system and
which is not maintained by the State Highway Commission, in the residential
section of the town at a rate of speed in excess of 25 mph. Any person
violating this division (A)(1) shall be subject to a penalty of $10.
      (2)   Speed limit; business section. No person shall operate any motor
vehicle on any street, which is a part of the state highway system and which is
maintained by the State Highway Commission, in the business section of the town
at a rate of speed in excess of 20 mph. Any person violating this division (A)
(2) shall be subject to a penalty of $10.
      (3)   Speed limit; state highway; residential section. No person shall
operate any motor vehicle on any street, which is a part of the state highway
system and which is maintained by the State Highway Commission, in the
residential section of the town at a rate of speed in excess of 35 mph. Any
person violating this division (A)(3) shall be subject to a penalty of $10.
      (4)   Speed limit; state highway street system. The forgoing speed limits
are a safe and reasonable speed limit for those designated areas.
Location Speed Limit
Location                                                            Speed Limit
Main Street (U.S. Highway 158) from Maple Avenue to Hundley Circle  20 mph
Railroad Street (N.C. Highway 35) from White Avenue to a point 0.05 20 mph
mile north of U.S. Highway 158
SR 1366 from its west junction with Main Street (U.S. Highway 158)  25 mph
to its east junction with Main Street (U.S. Highway 158)
Railroad Street (N.C. Highway 35 from a point 0.05 mile north of
U.S. Highway 158 to the northern corporate limits, approximately    35 mph
900 feet northeast of Martin Street
N.C. Highway 35 from White Avenue to the southern corporate limits  35 mph
of N.C. Highway 35
Main Street (U.S. Highway 158) from Hundley Circle to the eastern   35 mph
corporate limits, approximately 0.1 mile east of Dude’s Path
Main Street (U.S. Highway 158) from Maple Avenue to the western     35 mph
corporate limits, approximately 0.55 mile west of Garris Street
Lake Road (SR 1342) from the western corporate limit, approximately 35 mph
0.60 mile west of N.C. 35 to N.C.
Main Street (U.S. Highway 158) from Elizabeth Street, a point
approximately 680 feet West of Church Street (N.C. Highway 35)      20 mph
Eastward to Hundley Circle, a point approximately 835 feet East of
Church Street (N.C. Highway 35)
Church Street (N.C. Highway 35) from Davis Street, a point
approximately 625 feet south of Main Street (U.S. Highway 158),     20 mph
northward to a point 350 feet north of Main Street (U.S. Highway
158)
SR 1365 from the southern circular corporate limit of the town, a
point 0.33 mile southeast of N.C. Highway 35, northward to the      45 mph
northern circular corporate limit of the town, a point 0.13 mile
southeast of N.C. Highway 35
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 3)
   (B)   Speed limits of Ord. passed 9-6-2005.
      (1)   Whenever a speed limit has been established and appropriate traffic
control devices have been installed in accordance with division (B)(2) below,
no person may operate a vehicle on any street in excess of the posted speed.
      (2)   The following speed limits shall be applicable to the following
streets, as indicated, and the Chief of Police shall install appropriate
traffic control devices clearly indicating the established speed.
Speed Limit Street
Speed Limit Street
25 mph      All local streets
35 mph      East Main Street from Hundley Circle to the town limits
35 mph      West Main Street from Elizabeth Street to the town limits
35 mph      North Church Street from barber shop to the town limits
35 mph      South Church Street from post office to the town limits
20 mph      Main Street from Elizabeth Street to Hundley Circle
20 mph      Church Street from barber shop to post office
 
(Ord. passed 9-6-2005)
CHAPTER 73:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I.  NO PARKING.
   (A)   No parking, West Main Street. No motor vehicle nor any vehicle or
conveyance not operated by a motor shall be parked on the northern right-of-way
of West Main Street (U.S. Highway 158) in any space on the northern right-of-
way extending easterly from the intersection of Garriss Street with West Main
Street (U.S. Highway 158) to the intersection of the western property line of
Whitley Bros. Garage with the northern right-of-way of West Main Street (U.S.
Highway 158). This no-parking zone shall be designated as a no-parking zone by
appropriate signs. Anyone violating this division (A) shall be subject to a
penalty of $5.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
   (B)   No parking, East Main Street.
      (1)   No motor vehicle nor any vehicle or conveyance not operated by a
motor shall be parked on the southern right-of-way East Main Street (U.S.
Highway 158) in any space on the southern right-of-way extending 320 feet
easterly from the intersection of Church Street (N.C. Highway 35) with U.S.
Highway 158; neither shall any motor vehicle nor any vehicle or conveyance not
operated by a motor be parked on the northern right-of-way East Main Street
(U.S. Highway 158) in any space on the northern right-of-way extending 235 feet
easterly from the intersection of Church Street (N.C. Highway 35) with U.S.
158. It being fully intended by this division (B) that there be no parking any
time along both sides of East Main Street as designated herein. This no-parking
zone shall be designated as a no parking zone by appropriate signs. Anyone
violating this division (B) shall be subject to a penalty of $5.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
      (2)   No motor vehicle, nor any vehicle or conveyance not operated by a
motor, shall be parked on either the northern or southern rights-of-way of East
Main Street (U.S. Highway 158) within five feet of the beginning of the
straight line of the curbing leading from East Main Street to any entrance into
a place of business or into any alley adjacent to East Main Street. This no-
parking zone shall run from Hundley Circle to the north to Church Street
(Highway 35) on the south. The five feet section of curbing which is in a
straight line adjacent to the beginning of the curb into any entrance or alley
which is hereby designated a no-parking zone shall be painted yellow or marked
by appropriate signage. Anyone violating this division (C) shall be subject to
a penalty of $5, and other remedies adopted by law.
(Ord. passed 3-5-2001)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   HEALTH NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   PARADES, EVENTS, DEMONSTRATIONS
      
94.   CEMETERIES
      
95.   ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
      
96.   NOISE REGULATION
      
97.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
CHAPTER 90:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
90.01   Trash and filth on streets
   
90.02   Playing games and the like on streets
   
90.03   Trees on street
   
90.04   Acceptance of street/right-of-way
   
90.05   Truck traffic
   
90.06   Dead-end streets; cul-de-sacs
§ 90.01  TRASH AND FILTH ON STREETS.
   No person shall throw or place any filth or timber, boxes or other nuisance
in any street or water drain of the town under the penalty of a fine of $5, to
be collected by law, except when the person or persons are building or
repairing and, in that case, all filth, trash and timber shall be removed
within 20 days after the building or repairing is completed.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
§ 90.02  PLAYING GAMES AND THE LIKE ON STREETS.
   (A)   No person or persons shall at any time play at marbles, or any other
game on the sidewalk of the town, nor pitch or throw balls, rocks and the like,
or shoot from sling shots or air guns or missiles of any kind in any street,
land or public lot of the town under a penalty of $1 for each and every like
offense.
   (B)   If the person or persons so offending be a minor or minors, the
penalty shall be recovered from the parent or guardian of the minor or minors.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
§ 90.03  TREES ON STREET.
   Any person or persons who shall hereby cut down or injure any tree growing,
on the streets of the town (except by the consent of the Board of
Commissioners) shall forfeit and pay $10 for each and every offense, to be
collected in the manner hereinafter provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 90.04  ACCEPTANCE OF STREET/RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No street is to be accepted with less than 40 feet of right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
§ 90.05  TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   All tractor trailer trucks are prohibited from traveling on any street of
this town, which is not a part of the state highway system and which is not
maintained by the State Highway Commission, unless the truck traffic is for the
purpose of delivering merchandise to someone in the corporate limits of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 1-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06  DEAD-END STREETS; CUL-DE-SACS.
   No dead-end streets or proposed dead-end streets shall be accepted by the
town as part of its municipal streets, unless the streets shall have cul-de-
sacs at the end thereof, and the cul-de-sac shall have a radius of 40 feet,
measuring from the center of the street to the outside edge or curbing, it
being the full intention of this section that the cul-de-sac shall have a
diameter of 80 feet.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)  (Ord. passed 4-7-1975)
CHAPTER 91:  HEALTH NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Stagnant water and filth
   
91.02   Impurities and the like, in wells
   
91.03   Hog or pig pens
   
91.04   Building Code
   
91.05   Nuisances declared
   
91.06   Horses, ponies or livestock
   
91.07   Application of one section to another; hog or pig pens
   
91.08   Outdoor athletic events
   
91.09   Fires; open burning
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  STAGNANT WATER AND FILTH.
   (A)   All persons owning a lot or lots in the town shall, during the whole
year, keep the lot or lots from stagnant water and filth of every kind.
   (B)   When filth on any lot or lots within the limits of the town shall be
declared a nuisance by the Mayor or Commissioners on complaint being made to
him or her or them, the owner thereof shall be notified to remove the same
forthwith, and upon refusal or failure to do so, the Constable or any peace
officer is hereby authorized to have the same done at the cost of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  IMPURITIES AND THE LIKE, IN WELLS.
   No person or persons shall deposit any filth, greasy water or any other
impurities in any well within the corporate limits of the town, whether the
well be in actual use or otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  HOG OR PIG PENS.
   No person within the corporate limits of the town shall build, keep or
maintain any pens, enclosure or other facilities for hogs or pigs on his or her
premises or anyone else’s premises; nor shall any person in any way keep or
maintain hogs or pigs on his or her premises or anyone else’s premises, except
that this section shall not be applicable to anyone maintaining hogs or pigs on
an open field or any part thereof which is within the corporate limits of the
town, and which is enclosed by a fence, for the purpose only of gleaning the
field after the harvest of crops on the field, if the fence enclosure of the
field or any part thereof is so that the hogs or pigs cannot roam any closer
than 150 feet to any person’s property line on which property there is situated
a dwelling or public place of business.
(Prior Code, § 7-4)  (Ord. passed 12-28-1967)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  BUILDING CODE.
   The State Building Code, all subsequent amendments thereto, and the
regulations promulgated in pursuant thereto, shall be adopted for the town, and
the same are hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 7-5)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  NUISANCES DECLARED.
   (A)   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or
other parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be
dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a
public nuisance:
      (1)   The uncontrolled growth of noxious weeds or grass to a height in
excess of 24 inches causing or threatening to cause a hazard detrimental to the
public health or safety;
      (2)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash or junk causing or threatening
to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the accumulation of
stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of
rats, mice, snakes or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or
prejudicial to the public health;
      (3)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors, or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health;
      (4)   The open storage of any abandoned ice box, refrigerator, stove,
glass, building material, building rubbish or similar items; or
      (5)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department.
   (B)   Investigation upon complaint of nuisance. The Town Clerk, upon notice
from any person of the existence of any of the conditions described in division
(A) above, shall cause to be made by the proper County Health Department
official; or the Superintendent of Public Works, the investigation as may be
necessary to determine whether, in fact, conditions exist as to constitute a
public nuisance as declared in division (A) above.
   (C)   Town Clerk to issue notice of abatement. Upon a determination that
conditions constituting a public nuisance exist, the Town Clerk shall notify,
in writing, the owner, occupant or person in possession of the premises in
question of the conditions constituting the public nuisance, and shall order
the prompt abatement thereof within 15 days from the receipt of the written
notice.
   (D)   Removal by town upon failure or refusal of owner to obey notice.
      (1)   If a person, having been ordered to abate such a public nuisance,
fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the condition constituting the
nuisance within 15 days from receipt of the order, the Town Clerk shall cause
the condition to be removed or otherwise remedied by having employees of the
town to go upon the premises and remove or otherwise abate the nuisance under
the supervision of an officer or employee designated by the Town Clerk.
      (2)   Any person who has been ordered to abate a public nuisance may
within the time allowed by this section request the town in writing to remove
the condition, the cost of which shall be paid by the person making the
request.
   (E)   Cost of removal to be paid by owner. The actual cost incurred by the
town in removing or otherwise remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to
the owner of the lot or parcel of land, and it shall be the duty of the Tax
Collector to mail a statement of the charges to the owner or other person in
possession of the premises with instructions that the charges are due and
payable within 30 days from the receipt thereof.
   (F)   Unpaid charges to be a lien on property. In the event charges for the
removal or abatement of a public nuisance are not paid within 30 days after the
receipt of a statement of charges as provided for in division (A) above, the
charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the public nuisance
existed, and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in G.S. § 160A-
193.
   (G)   Additional remedies. The procedure set forth in this section shall be
in addition to any other remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for
the abatement of public nuisances, and this section shall not prevent the town
from proceeding in a criminal action against any person, firm or corporation
violating the provisions of this section, as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 11-5-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  HORSES, PONIES OR LIVESTOCK.
   No person within the corporate limits of the town shall keep or maintain any
horse, pony or any other livestock on his or her premises unless the same shall
be within an enclosure so that the horse, pony or other livestock cannot roam
any closer than 600 feet to any person’s home or public place of business.
(Prior Code, § 7-8)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  APPLICATION OF ONE SECTION TO ANOTHER; HOG OR PIG PENS.
   The provisions of §
91.07 do not apply to or anyway affect §
91.03.
(Prior Code, § 7-9)
§ 91.08  OUTDOOR ATHLETIC EVENTS.
   (A)   No outdoor athletic event in the town shall continue beyond 11:00 p.m.
any night during th week. Athletic event means the normal definition given to
the term and specification includes softball, baseball, football, soccer,
tennis and other similar outdoor sport activities.
   (B)   Any law officer of the town is hereby directed and given authority to
cut off the lights at 11:00 p.m. at the athletic field, if the same has not
been done voluntarily and to secure the light switch, or box, in order to carry
out the intent and provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 7-11)  (Ord. passed 5-6-1974)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.09  FIRES; OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of G.S. § 113-60.31, as amended,
whenever open burning is prohibited in the county by order or declaration of
the State Department of Environment and Natural Resources; then, open burning
shall be prohibited in the town.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
91.09 shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 6-3-2008)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or persons violating §
91.01 shall be subject to a penalty of $5.
(Prior Code, § 7-1)
   (C)   Anyone violating §
91.02 shall be subject to a penalty of $50.
(Prior Code, § 7-2)
   (D)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
91.03 shall be subject to a penalty of $50.
(Prior Code, § 7-4)
   (E)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of §
91.05 shall subject the violator to a civil penalty in the sum of $50 per day.
         (a)   A citation for the civil penalty shall be issued by the
appropriate town official.
         (b)   Each citation for a civil penalty must be paid within the
designated hours of issuance.
      (2)   Each and every day that the violator continues in violation shall
be a separate and distinct offense.
      (3)   The municipality may also, and in addition, seek any and all
appropriate equitable remedies, injunctions and/or abatement orders from the
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
91.06 shall be subject to a penalty of $50 and each and every violation shall
constitute and be deemed a continuing offense and shall be subject to a penalty
of $50 for each and every violation.
(Prior Code, § 7-8)
   (G)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
91.08 shall be subject to a penalty of $25.
(Prior Code, § 7-11)
(Ord. passed 12-28-1967; Ord. passed 11-5-2001)
CHAPTER 92:  ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Bird sanctuary
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Duties of ownership
   
92.04   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
92.05   Teasing, molesting, baiting prohibited
   
92.06   Running at large prohibited
   
92.07   Identification and rabies vaccination
   
92.08   Vicious animals and dangerous dogs
   
92.09   Authority of County Humane Officer
   
92.10   Number of dogs and cats; exemptions
   
92.11   Chickens
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  BIRD SANCTUARY.
   No person shall hunt, kill or trap any birds, nor shall any person
deliberately destroy or rob the nests of birds within the corporate limits of
the town, provided, this section shall not apply to any birds classed as
predatory by the Wildlife Resources Commission or by the general statutes of
the state, nor shall this section apply to pigeons, crows, starlings or English
sparrows.
(Prior Code, § 17-1)  (Ord. passed 8-5-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. Any animal kept outdoors must be provided with shelter
that is suitable for the species, age, condition, size, and type of each
animal; provides adequate spacefor each animal; is safe and protects each
animal from injury, rain, sleet, snow, hail, direct sunlight, the adverse
effects of heat or cold, physical suffering, and impairment of health; is
properly cleaned; enables each animal to be clean and dry, except when
detrimental to the species.
   ADEQUATE SPACE. Sufficient space to allow each animal to easily stand, sit,
lie, turn about, and make all other normal body movements in a comfortable,
normal position for the animal and interact safely with other animals in the
enclosure.
   AT LARGE. A dog is AT LARGE if it is off the premises of the owner or person
having possession of the dog, and not under the control of the owner or some
other person by leash, cord, chain or other attachment, or under restraint as
hereafter defined.
   DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   A canine or canine crossbreed that has bitten, attacked, or
inflicted injury on a person or companion animal that is a dog or cat, or
killed a companion animal that is a dog or cat. However, when a dog attacks or
bites a companion animal that is a dog or cat, the attacking or biting dog
shall not be deemed dangerous:
         (a)   If no serious physical injury as determined by a licensed
veterinarian has occurred to the dog or cat as a result of the attack or bite;
         (b)   If both animals are owned by the same person;
         (c)   If such attack occurs on the property of the attacking or biting
dog's owner or custodian; or
         (d)   For other good cause as determined by the court.
      (2)   No animal shall be found to be a DANGEROUS DOG if the threat,
injury or damage was sustained by a person who was:
         (a)   Committing, at the time, a crime upon the premises occupied by
the animal's owner or custodian;
         (b)   Committing, at the time, a willful trespass upon the premises
occupied by the animal's owner or custodian; or
         (c)   Provoking, tormenting or physically abusing the animal, or can
be shown to have repeatedly provoked, tormented, abused, or assaulted the
animal at other times.
      (3)   No police dog that was engaged in the performance of its duties as
such at the time of the acts complained of shall be found to be a DANGEROUS
DOG. No animal that, at the time of the acts complained of, was responding to
pain or injury, or was protecting itself, its pen, its offspring, a person, or
its owner's or custodian's property, shall be found to be a DANGEROUS DOG.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, or entity owning, keeping, having
charge of sheltering, feeding, harboring or taking care of any animal.
   PEN. A structure used to contain an animal outdoors.
      (1)   A PEN shall consist of four secure sides, constructed of chain link
or comparable and appropriate material, to allow for adequate space, light and
ventilation.
      (2)   A PEN should be kept properly cleaned. The animal must be provided
clean water, species-appropriate food, adequate space, and adequate shelter.
   PROPERLY CLEANED. Carcasses, debris, food waste and excrement are removed
from an animal's living space (including pen and shelter) with sufficient
frequency to minimize the animal's contact with the above-mentioned
contaminants, the living space is sanitized with sufficient frequency to
minimize odors and the hazards of disease, and the living space is cleaned so
as to prevent the animals confined therein from being directly or indirectly
sprayed with a stream of water, or directly or indirectly exposed to hazardous
chemicals or disinfectants.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT if it is controlled by a leash, cord,
chain or other attachment, or is sufficiently near the owner or handler to be
under his or her direct control and obedient to that person's commands, or
within a vehicle being driven or parked and unable to get outside of the
vehicle, or on the property of its owner or keeper.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has made an unprovoked attack on a human by
biting or in any manner causing abrasions or cuts to the skin. A VICIOUS ANIMAL
is also any animal that habitually or repeatedly attacks or physically
threatens humans or other animals.
      (1)   No animal shall be declared vicious or dangerous if the threat,
injury or damage was sustained by a person who was:
         (a)   At the time, committing a willful trespass or other tort upon
the premises occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal;
         (b)   Teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal or has, in
the past, been observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused or
assaulted the animal; or
         (c)   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      (2)   No animal shall be declared vicious or dangerous if it attacks
other animals which are trespassing on the premises occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animal.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
§ 92.03  DUTIES OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Each owner shall provide for each of his or her companion animals:
      (1)   Adequate feed;
      (2)   Adequate water;
      (3)   Adequate shelter that is properly cleaned;
      (4)   Adequate space in the primary enclosure for the particular type of
animal depending upon its age, size, species, and weight;
      (5)   Adequate care, treatment, and transportation; and
      (6)   Veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering or disease
transmission.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall also apply to every pound, animal
shelter, or other releasing agency, and every foster care provider, dealer, pet
shop, exhibitor, kennel, groomer, and boarding establishment.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
§ 92.04  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and shall constitute cruelty to animals for any
person to:
      (1)   Molest, torture, torment, ill-treat, abandon, willfully inflict
inhumane injury or pain not connected with bona fide scientific or medical
experimentation, or cruelly, maliciously or unnecessarily beat, maim, mutilate,
wound, poison, or kill, or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or
general welfare any animal, whether belonging to himself, herself, or another;
      (2)   Deprive any animal of necessary sustenance, proper food that is
suitable for the species and fresh water daily. Adequate shelter that provides
adequate space and is properly cleaned as defined in §
90.02 or proper medical attention for sick, diseased, or injured animals, as
well as adequate inoculation against disease, according to the species of the
animal kept;
      (3)   Keep animals under unsanitary or inhumane conditions;
      (4)   Instigate, engage in, or in any way further any act of cruelty to
any animal; or
      (5)   Cause, permit or allow any of the above.
   (B)   The words torture, torment, or cruelty shall be held to include every
act, omission or neglect whereby unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or
death is caused or permitted, but these terms shall not be construed to
prohibit proper authorities or their agents or veterinarians from destroying
dangerous, unwanted or injured animals in a humane manner.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
§ 92.05  TEASING, MOLESTING, BAITING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to entice a dog or cat to leave the
property of its owner or one in possession, or to tease, molest or bait any dog
or cat not owned by or in the possession of the person.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
§ 92.06  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession of a
dog to allow the dog to run at large within the corporate limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having possession of a
dog to permit the dog to run at large upon the property of another, without the
permission of the property owner.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department, when it is notified or
becomes aware of any dog running at large, or failing to comply with this
section for a dog or a cat, to ascertain the identity of the person owning or
having possession of the dog or cat, and notify the person that he or she is in
violation of this section.
   (D)   If the owner or person having possession of the dog, cat or vicious
animal, in violation of any division of this section, cannot be ascertained,
the Police Department shall deliver the dog, cat or vicious animal to the
County Humane Officer for disposition as provided by the County Humane
Department's rules and regulations. Any vicious animal found running at large
within the corporate limits shall be immediately impounded, its owner or the
person having possession immediately notified, and if the vicious animal cannot
be caught and impounded and is presenting a dangerous and immediate threat to
the health, safety and welfare of the public, then the vicious animal shall be
destroyed by any available means by the Police Department.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, feed, keep in
possession by confinement or otherwise, any dog that does not belong to him or
her, or which he or she has no authority to keep, unless the person shall
notify the Police Department within 24 hours from the time the dog comes into
his or her possession.
   (F)   If any dog, cat or vicious animal is impounded under the provisions of
this section, and the animal is turned over to the County Humane Officer, and
if the owner of the animal can be ascertained, the Police Department shall send
a written notice to its owner informing him or her that his or her animal has
been impounded and how he or she may regain custody of it. Impounded animals
shall be confined in a humane manner for not less than ten days, and if not
claimed, may thereafter be disposed of in a humane manner. The impounding of
animals shall be in accordance with the rules and regulations of the County
Humane Department. The owner may reclaim the animal when he or she pays the
fees and charges levied by the County Humane Officer, and also pays the town
the civil penalty provided herein.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
§ 92.07  IDENTIFICATION AND RABIES VACCINATION.
   Every owner of a dog or cat shall have secured to its neck a collar, and
attached to the collar shall be the name of the owner and a current vaccination
tag.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
§ 92.08  VICIOUS ANIMALS AND DANGEROUS DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious, fierce or dangerous
animal within the town corporate limits, including a dangerous dog or vicious
animal as defined in §
92.02, unless the animal is confined within a securely locked building or pen,
or unless it is securely muzzled and under restraint by a competent person who,
by means of a leash, chain or rope, has the animal firmly under control at all
times.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
§ 92.09  AUTHORITY OF COUNTY HUMANE OFFICER.
   The County Humane Officer is hereby authorized and encouraged to assist the
Police Department in carrying out the provisions of this section, and to
enforce the same within the jurisdiction of the town, and in doing so, the
rules and regulations of the County Humane Department hereby are adopted and in
effect within the jurisdiction of the town for the purposes of enforcing and
administering the provisions of this section. Where there is conflict between
this section and the rules and regulations of the County Humane Department, the
provisions of this section shall control within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
§ 92.10  NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A large number of dogs and cats cause noise, foul smell, and create
unsanitary conditions. It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate
limits to keep more than four dogs or cats older than nine months.
   (B)   Hospitals, clinics, pet shops, pet groomers and other entities
operated by licensed veterinarians for the care and treatment of animals or for
the sale of pets are exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 12-1-2015)
§ 92.11  CHICKENS.
   (A)   Permission to keep chickens. Upon payment to the town of a non-
refundable permit fee of $35, any resident may keep chickens on his or her
property under the following conditions:
      (1)   The maximum number of chickens allowed shall be ten per tract of
land, regardless of how many dwelling units are on the land.
      (2)   Only female chickens are allowed. There is no restriction on
chicken species.
      (3)   There shall be no breeding or fertilizer production for commercial
purposes. The chickens shall be kept only for egg production purposes.
      (4)   The chickens must be kept in an enclosure or fenced area at all
times, at least five feet from the neighboring property (unless the neighbor
consents for it to be closer), and shall be secured within a henhouse during
non-daylight hours. The chickens shall not run at large.
      (5)   Henhouses and pens shall only be located to the rear of the
dwelling house or other main structure on the property.
      (6)   Enclosures shall be maintained in a clean, neat and sanitary
condition at all times.
      (7)   Henhouses and pens shall provide adequate ventilation and adequate
sun and shade, and shall be impermeable to rodents, wild birds, and predators,
including dogs and cats. Chicken feed shall be stored so as to discourage
pests.
      (8)   The building materials used in the construction of the henhouse
shall be uniform for each element of the structure, so that all walls are made
of the same materials, the roof has the same shingles or other covering, and
any windows or openings shall be constructed of the same materials. The
henhouse should be visually attractive, and the use of scrap, waste board,
sheet metal, or similar materials is prohibited. The henhouse shall be well
maintained and shall not exceed 20 feet by 20 feet in size.
      (9)   No slaughtering of chickens shall be allowed.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Chief of Police shall implement and enforce this
section.
   (C)   Chickens not on property for one year, fee. If the resident permittee
is without any chickens for a period of one year, he or she must pay to the
town another non-refundable permit fee of $35 before bringing additional
chickens to his or her property.
   (D)   Conflict with zoning ordinance. In the event of conflict with the
town's zoning ordinance with regard to the construction and location of the
henhouse and pen, the terms of this section shall control.
(Ord. passed 4-3-2012; Ord. passed 8-5-2014)  Penalty, see §
92.99.
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
92.01 shall be subject to a penalty of $2 for the first violation and $5 for
each succeeding violation.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
92.03—
92.09 may incur a civil penalty to the town of up to $250. The first violation
of §§
92.03—
92.09 shall subject the violator to a written warning, the second violation
during a 12-month period shall subject the violator to a $50 penalty, the third
violation during a 12-month period shall subject the violator to a $100
penalty, the fourth violation during a 12-month period shall subject the
violator to a $150 penalty; and the fifth and any subsequent violation during a
12-month period shall subject the violator to a $250 penalty. In addition, a
violation of §§
92.03—
92.09 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable under the laws of the state.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
92.10 may incur a civil penalty to the town of up to $100. The first violation
of §
92.10 shall subject the violator to a written warning; the second violation
during a 12-month period shall subject the violator to a $50 penalty; and the
third and any subsequent violation during a 12-month period shall subject the
violator to a $100 penalty, plus revocation of the permit to keep chickens.
(Ord. passed 3-6-2006; Ord. passed 4-3-2012; Ord. passed 8-5-2014)
CHAPTER 93:  PARADES, EVENTS, DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Regulation of trick-or-treat on Halloween
Street Events
   
93.15   Activities covered
   
93.16   Permit required
   
93.17   Permit application
   
93.18   Notice and public hearing
   
93.19   Staff review
   
93.20   Insurance
   
93.21   Fees; costs incurred by town
   
93.22   Standards for issuance of permit
   
93.23   Street closings
   
93.24   Sponsor responsible for cleanup
   
93.25   Special events application
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 90
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01  REGULATION OF TRICK-OR-TREAT ON HALLOWEEN.
   Observance of trick-or-treat on Halloween night or alternative date when
Halloween is observed shall be from 6:00 p.m. until 8:00 p.m., 12 years old and
younger. This shall not be construed to regulate any organized school or church
related or civic function, such as Halloween carnivals.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1985)  Penalty, see §
93.99
STREET EVENTS
§ 93.15  ACTIVITIES COVERED.
   (A)   This subchapter applies to all street fairs, festivals, carnivals,
parades, marches, rallies, demonstrations and other activities or public events
that require the temporary closing or obstruction of all or a portion of any
street or other public right-of-way or that substantially hinder or prevent the
normal flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic along any street or other public
right-of-way.
   (B)   Any like activity covered by this subchapter shall hereafter be
referred to as “the event”.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.16  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person may run, operate or sponsor any event in any public street or
right-of-way without a permit obtained from the Town Commissioners in
accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.17  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Applications for the permit authorized by this subchapter shall be submitted
a minimum of ten days prior to the event on a form provided by the
Administrator and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   Name, address and telephone number of the person, organization or
entity seeking to conduct or sponsor the event;
   (B)   Name, address and telephone number of the individual in charge of the
event;
   (C)   The proposed date and time period when the event will be conducted;
   (D)   The approximate number of people expected to attend the event;
   (E)   When applicable, a request that the town provide specified services
and/or that the town close identified streets or portions of streets for a
particular period;
   (F)   Sufficient proof of liability insurance in accordance with §
93.20;
   (G)   Any other information determined by the administrator to be necessary
to ensure compliance with this subchapter; and
   (H)   A sketch-map showing:
      (1)   The area where the event is to take place;
      (2)   Any streets to be closed or obstructed;
      (3)   Any barriers or traffic control devices that will be erected;
      (4)   The location of any concession stand, booth or other temporary
structures or facilities; and
      (5)   The location of proposed fences, stands, platforms, benches or
bleachers.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.18  NOTICE AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Before issuing a permit under this subchapter, the Town Commissioners
shall hold a public hearing on the permit application. This hearing may be held
at any regular or special meeting.
   (B)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published in a manner determined
by the Administrator to be reasonably calculated to inform the following
persons of the date, time and place, as well as the subject matter of the
hearing:
      (1)   The applicant;
      (2)   All persons occupying property that abuts any street where the
event is to take place; and
      (3)   The general public.
   (C)   When the principal purpose of an event is to exercise freedom
protected under the First Amendment of the United States Constitution, the
Board of Commissioners concludes that an expedited permit process is warranted.
Therefore, those events are exempt from the requirements of this section and
the Board of Commissioners shall act on the permit request as soon as an
emergency meeting can reasonably be called, and in all events within six hours
after the application for the permit is filed.
   (D)   If an event has an established and successful history in the town, the
Board of Commissioners may, in its discretion, waive the requirements of this
section and issue the requested permit.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004; Ord. passed 3-7-2005)
§ 93.19  STAFF REVIEW.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the permit application, the Administrator shall
circulate it to the Police Chief, the Fire Chief, the Public Works Director and
other appropriate persons for their comment.
   (B)   The Administrator may arrange to have a conference on the application
with the applicant and one or more department heads.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.20  INSURANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners may require as a condition precedent or
subsequent to issuance of the permit that the applicant obtain a comprehensive
general liability insurance policy or comparable special events liability
insurance policy issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in
this state, with coverage that includes the entire area of the event.
   (B)   If such a policy is required, the town shall be named as an additional
insured to the policy.
   (C)   The policy limits of the insurance shall not be less than:
 
Property damage        $1,000,000 for each occurrence
Bodily injury or death $1,000,000 for each person; $1,000,000 for each
                       occurrence
 
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.21  FEES; COSTS INCURRED BY TOWN.
   (A)   A basic minimum fee sufficient to cover the cost of advertising the
public hearing in accordance with §
93.18(B), and to provide the notification required by §
93.23(D) shall be paid by the applicant. The amount of this fee shall be based
upon an estimate of the expenses that will actually be incurred to provide the
required notices.
   (B)   In addition, if the town is requested to provide extraordinary
services or equipment or the town administration otherwise determines that
extraordinary services or equipment should be provided for reasons related to
public health or safety, the Board of Commissioners shall take whatever action
is necessary under the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act to make
available the necessary funds for the provision of the services or equipment.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners may require the applicant to pay to the
town a fee sufficient to reimburse the town for the costs of any extraordinary
services or equipment provided unless the event has been anticipated in the
budget process and sufficient funds have been included in the budget to cover
the costs incurred.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.22  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners shall issue the permit authorizing the
event unless it finds that:
      (1)   Conduct of the event will require the assignment of so many police
officers that the remainder of the town cannot adequately be protected;
      (2)   The event will interfere with the movement of emergency vehicles to
such an extent that adequate police, fire or other emergency services cannot be
provided throughout the town;
      (3)   The applicant has failed to obtain any necessary permits or
licenses, including any required building permit or privilege license, or the
applicant is otherwise in violation of any town ordinance;
      (4)   The event will work a severe hardship on persons occupying property
adjacent to the site, location or route of the event as a result of the denial
of access to property or for other substantial reasons;
      (5)   The event, if held at the time or at the location or along the
route proposed, will cause an unreasonable and unwarranted disruption to
vehicular or pedestrian traffic; or
      (6)   The applicant has failed to comply with any of the provisions of
this subchapter, including the payment of any fees required.
   (B)   If a permit is issued in accordance with division (A) above, the Board
of Commissioners may attach it to any reasonable conditions.
   (C)   If the Board of Commissioners finds that it cannot issue the permit
for reasons specified in division (A) above, it may request the applicant to
modify its application to remove any objections to the issuance of the permit,
and the applicant may do so without further notice or hearing.
   (D)   An event conducted pursuant to a permit issued under this section
shall be conducted strictly in accordance with the terms of the permit,
including any conditions attached thereto.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.23  STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   If the Board of Commissioners finds that the permit should be issued
and that, to conduct the event, it is necessary to close a street or to reroute
traffic, it may pass a resolution authorizing this to be done. No resolution
shall be passed affecting streets that are part of the sate street system
without the approval of the State Department of Transportation.
   (B)   The resolution shall identify the street or portion thereof to be
affected and shall indicate the date and time when the street or portion
thereof is to be closed or traffic thereon is to be limited in someway. The
resolution shall also direct the Administrator to have appropriate traffic-
control devices installed to give notice of the temporary traffic controls.
   (C)   No person may operate any vehicle contrary to the traffic-control
devices installed in accordance with division (B) above.
   (D)   The Administrator shall, by any adequate means, notify persons
occupying property abutting the street where the event is to take place of the
contents of any resolution passed in accordance with this section.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.24  SPONSOR RESPONSIBLE FOR CLEANUP.
   The sponsor of the event shall be responsible for cleaning up any liter
caused by the event, removing all temporary obstructions, and in general
returning the area where the event takes place to the condition that existed
prior to the event. The Board of Commissioners may require the sponsor to post
a bond or other sufficient security to guarantee compliance with this section.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.25  SPECIAL EVENTS APPLICATION.
   The following form is the “Special Events Application”.
SPECIAL EVENTS APPLICATION
Name of Sponsor or Organization _____________________________________
Address
_____________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
Telephone # ______________________
Name of Individual in Charge of the Event ____________________________________
Address
____________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
Telephone # ______________________
Proposed date and time period when the event will be held and the approximate
number of people expected to attend the event
_______________________________________________
Explain if the town needs to provide specified services and/or if the town
needs to close identified streets or portions of streets for a particular
period
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
**Please attach to application sufficient proof of liability insurance in
accordance with §
93.20.
**Please attach a sketch-map showing:
   1)   The area where the event is to take place.
   2)   Any streets to be closed or obstructed.
   3)   Any barriers or traffic control devices that will be erected.
   4)   The location of any concession stand, booth or other temporary
structures or facilities.
   5)   The location of proposed fences, stands, platforms, benches or
bleachers.
If you have any questions please call the Town Administrator at 252-585-0488.
(Ord. passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone violating this §
93.01, including parent, guardian or one in loco parentis, who is accompanying
a minor, shall be subject to a penalty of $10, as well as being otherwise
prosecuted as provided by law.
(Ord. passed 10-7-1985)
CHAPTER 94:  CEMETERIES
Section
   
94.01   Burial permitted only in certain cemeteries
   
94.02   Purchase of lots required for burial
   
94.03   Size of lots; deed provisions
   
94.04   Prices of lots
   
94.05   Surrender of lots in the town cemetery
   
94.06   Sale, transfer or assignment of lots in the town cemetery
   
94.07   Town to control, supervise and maintain lots in the town cemetery
   
94.08   Interment, town cemetery
   
94.09   Prohibited acts
   
94.10   Signs, notices or advertisements prohibited
   
94.11   Boundary markers, steps, gravestones or monuments
   
94.12   Grade of lots
   
94.13   Lot boundaries
   
94.14   Grave specifications
   
94.15   Regulations governing the new section of the town cemetery
   
94.16   Private mausoleum
   
94.17   Driving over walks or drives
   
94.18   Use of cemetery as thoroughfare prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate cemeteries, see G.S. §§ 160A-341 through 160A-348
§ 94.01  BURIAL PERMITTED ONLY IN CERTAIN CEMETERIES.
   It shall be unlawful to bury any person within the town limits, except in
First Baptist Cemetery, the Lassiter Cemetery, the Parker Cemetery, the Britt
Cemetery, the Garris Cemetery or the Town Cemetery.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02  PURCHASE OF LOTS REQUIRED FOR BURIAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to bury in the cemetery the remains of any
person, except in lots within the cemetery which have, prior to the burial,
been sold and conveyed, and for which a permit has been executed and delivered
by the town.
   (B)   Any person desiring to have the remains of any deceased person removed
to the cemetery to be interred therein in a lot in either cemetery in which he
has the right to inter the remains, may do the same at his or her own expense.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03  SIZE OF LOTS; DEED PROVISIONS.
   All lots in the cemetery shall be sold in the size and according to the
dimensions set out and appearing in the map thereof preserved by the town. The
following regulations pertaining to the maintenance and use of the town
cemetery are hereby adopted.
   (A)   No allotment of space in the cemetery shall be made except upon
application to the Town Clerk signed by the person or his or her assistant, in
whose name the allotment is to be made. Every application shall contain a
stipulation to the effect that, in consideration of the allotment space so
applied for, the applicant will abide by all rules and regulations made or
hereafter enacted by the town for the management and control of the cemetery.
   (B)   The price of burial lots shall be such as shall be fixed by the town
from time to time, as hereafter provided. No lots shall be sold except for
cash, which shall be paid to the Town Clerk, who shall give his or her receipt
therefor to the purchaser.
   (C)   The Mayor and Town Clerk are hereby authorized to execute proper deed
from cemetery lots at the price provided herein, and subject to all the terms
and conditions of this chapter. Every deed shall contain a clause providing
that the lot therein described is sold and conveyed subject to the ordinances,
rules and regulations with reference to town cemetery as may be in force at the
time the deed is executed, and also the ordinances, rules and regulations as
may be hereafter prescribed by the lawful authorities of the town.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04  PRICES OF LOTS.
   The prices to be charged for lots as designated on the town cemetery plat in
the town cemetery shall be as follows:
   (A)   Lots sold to residents of the town or to a person who is the sole fee
owner of real estate in the town:
      (1)   Two-grave lots: $400; and
      (2)   Eight-grave lots: $400.
   (B)   Lots sold to nonresidents of the town:
      (1)   Two-grave lots: $1,000; and
      (2)   Eight-grave lots: $1,000.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002; Ord. passed 10-7-2002)
§ 94.05  SURRENDER OF LOTS IN THE TOWN CEMETERY.
   The owner or owners of a lot upon which there is no interment may surrender
it to the town, provided the surrender is first sanctioned and approved by the
town. The removal of remains for the purpose of surrendering a lot will not be
permitted, except by express permission of the town.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)
§ 94.06  SALE, TRANSFER OR ASSIGNMENT OF LOTS IN THE TOWN CEMETERY.
   If the owner of any cemetery lot ever decides to convey or transfer the
cemetery lot, the owner shall convey the cemetery lot back to the town at the
same price the owner paid for the cemetery lot, and the deed to any purchaser
of a cemetery lot shall contain a restrictive clause to this effect. If lot has
not been resold a family member can repurchase the cemetery lot that has been
sold back to the town, within a one year time limit, at half the current
prices, plus recording fees.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002; Ord. passed 12-1-2015)
§ 94.07  TOWN TO CONTROL, SUPERVISE AND MAINTAIN LOTS IN THE TOWN CEMETERY.
   (A)   The town shall retain the control and supervision of all lots which
have been sold; and it shall be the duty of the town to enter upon any lot and
prohibit, modify or remove any structure, object, improvement or adornment upon
the lot which may have been placed thereon in violation of the rule, or which
may be considered objectionable or injurious to the lot or adjoining lot or the
general appearance of the cemetery.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to maintain and care for all lots in the
cemetery, which shall include the cutting of grass, trimming of trees and
shrubbery, preservation of graves and the removal of rubbish when necessary.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)
§ 94.08  INTERMENT, TOWN CEMETERY.
   (A)   All interments in lots shall be restricted to members of the family of
the lot owner.
   (B)   The usage of each grave shall be limited to one of the following:
      (1)   The interment of one human body;
      (2)   The interment of one human body and one cremation urn with human
remains; or
      (3)   The interment of one or two cremation urns with human remains.
   (C)   Cremations shall have at least 18 inches of cover.
   (D)   Human remains that are cremated must be secured in an urn or container
obtained from the funeral home.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall cause to be kept adequate records of interments
on the various lots in the cemetery, showing the name of each person buried and
also the location of each grave.
   (F)   Before an interment shall be made in any cemetery lot, a grave permit
in the amount of $10 shall be obtained from the Town Clerk or other authorized
agents of the town. The penalty by failing to obtain a permit as required in
here shall be a fine in the amount of $500, to be accessed against the funeral
home that conducted the burial, in addition to those penalties and remedies
listed in §
10.99. Along with the permit process is a requirement that a town official
confirm the location in the cemetery prior to preparing the grave site.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002; Ord. passed 4-4-2017; Ord. 94, passed 9-5-2017) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or leave any debris or dirt within the
cemetery or any burial lot therein.
   (B)   No person shall injure or deface any part of the cemetery enclosure,
or any burial lot or grave, or any monument, tombstone or slab, or any
inscription or device thereon; or shall destroy or injure any tree, shrub,
vine, plant or flower therein; or shall hunt with a gun, dog or otherwise in
the cemetery; or shall shoot any gun, pistol or other firearms in the cemetery.
This provision shall not apply to the firing of military salutes over the grave
of any deceased member of armed forces, nor the firing of the salute on
Memorial Day or other national holidays.
   (C)   Persons visiting the cemetery shall not go upon any lawn unnecessarily
or pluck flowers, or injure any tree, plant or flower.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.10  SIGNS, NOTICES OR ADVERTISEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No sign, notice or advertisement of any kind shall be permitted upon any
part of the grounds of the town cemetery; and it is hereby made the duty of the
caretaker to cause the immediate removal of all the signs, notices or
advertisements, except with permission of town.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.11  BOUNDARY MARKERS, STEPS, GRAVESTONES OR MONUMENTS.
   (A)   No boundary markers, steps, gravestones or monuments shall be erected
on any lot without first securing a written permit therefor from the Town
Clerk. If they shall conform to the requirements of this chapter the Town Clerk
shall grant the permit, and if not, he or she shall refuse it.
   (B)   (1)   No corner marker shall be erected upon the lands and premises at
a height higher than ground level. All other markers, human persons, and/or
cremains, must be placed at the head or foot of the headstone or grave.
      (2)   No flowers, shrubs or trees are to be planted upon the land and
premises.
      (3)   This cemetery lot herein conveyed shall be used only for the burial
of the remains of human persons in accordance with burial laws, rules or
regulations and for no other use or purpose whatsoever.
      (4)   The town for its employees and assigns reserves and is granted the
right to enter upon the cemetery lot herein conveyed with its workmen and
implements for the purpose of mowing and improving the lot.
   (C)   In the event any boundary marker, step, gravestone or monument shall
be erected, or any enclosure, hedge or border shall be placed around any lot or
grave, or anything shall be placed on any lot, contrary to the provisions of
this chapter, and shall not be either removed or made to conform to the
requirements of this chapter after five days written notice from the
Superintendent of the cemetery to the owner of the lot on which erected or
placed, the Superintendent shall have the right, in his or her discretion, to
either remove them or make them conform to the requirements of this chapter,
and the owner of the lot shall be liable to the town for the costs thereby
incurred.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002; Ord. 94, passed 9-5-2017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.12  GRADE OF LOTS.
   The establishment of the grade of all lots for the town cemetery shall be
the duty of the Town Superintendent of Public Works, and no change shall be
made in any grade so established unless the consent of the town is first
obtained.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.13  LOT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   No enclosure, hedge or border of any kind will be permitted around or
along the side of any lot or grave. However, the boundaries of all lots may be
defined by means of corner posts which must be built of stone, concrete or iron
pipe.
   (B)   These corner posts shall be six or eight inches square, and must be
set within lot lines, the top of which shall be level or flushed with the
ground at the point of installation.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.14  GRAVE SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No mound shall be more than a six-inch raise above the level of the
ground upon the grave.
   (B)   Any grave or vault constructed of steel, concrete, stone or brick may
have a marble or concrete slab over the entire top of the grave which shall be
set to so that the top is level or flushed with the ground at the point of
installation.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.15  REGULATIONS GOVERNING THE NEW SECTION OF THE TOWN CEMETERY.
   The following shall not be permitted in the new section of the cemetery:
   (A)   As soon as flowers, wreaths, emblems and the like used at funerals or
placed on graves at other times, become unsightly and faded and the family is
notified they shall be removed, and in the event this is not done the town
shall have the right to remove them; and
   (B)   The owner of monuments and other memorial structures shall keep them
in good repair, and any structure found to be unsightly and in dilapidated
condition will be notified by the town to rectify any problems.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16  PRIVATE MAUSOLEUM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, erect or construct a private
mausoleum in the town cemetery without first submitting detailed plans and
specifications thereof to the town and obtaining from it a written permit
therefor.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.17  DRIVING OVER WALKS OR DRIVES.
   No person shall drive any carriage, wagon, four wheeler or other motorized
vehicle over any walks or drives of the town cemetery, or allow any vehicle to
stand thereon, if forbidden by the cemetery authorities.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.18  USE OF CEMETERY AS THOROUGHFARE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall use any cemetery as a common thoroughfare or public walk,
and all traveling through or across any cemetery, except in connection with
cemetery purposes or for the purpose of visiting a burial lot, is unlawful.
(Ord. passed 7-8-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95:  ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
95.01   Administration
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.05   Junked vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
95.06   Junked vehicle; concealment
   
95.07   Pre-towing notice requirements
   
95.08   Appeal to Board of Commissioners; pre-towing hearing
   
95.09   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
95.10   Right to judicial probable cause hearing before sale and disposition of
vehicle
   
95.11   Redemption of vehicle
   
95.12   Sale and disposition of vehicle
   
95.13   Removal of vehicles from private property
   
95.14   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
95.15   Exceptions
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Chief shall be responsible for the administration and enforcement
of this chapter. The town may contract with private tow truck operators to
remove, store and dispose of abandoned, nuisance and junked motor vehicles in
compliance with this chapter and applicable state laws.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or ordinance
prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours;
      (3)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof, for longer than two hours; or
      (4)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days.
   JUNKED VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle that does not display a current license
plate that also:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it was
originally intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE.  A machine designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to a self-propelled vehicle.
In common terminology, MOTOR VEHICLES include cars, trucks, vans, SUVs,
motorcycles, campers, trailers, boats and the like.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle on public or private property that is
determined to be a health and safety hazard or a public nuisance, including a
vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth or weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds or water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement that cannot be operated from the
inside, such as trunks and hoods;
      (6)   One which is so situated that there is danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or other rotten matter;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts that are jagged or contain sharp edges of
metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health or safety hazard
or a public nuisance by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.03  ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person entitled to possession of
the vehicle to allow the vehicle to be abandoned.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Police Chief may determine that a vehicle is
an abandoned vehicle and order the same removed.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person entitled to possession of
the vehicle, or for the owner or lessee of the real property upon which it is
located, to allow the vehicle to become a nuisance.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Police Chief may determine that a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle and order the same removed.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05  JUNKED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
95.06 below, it shall be unlawful for the owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle, or for the owner or lessee of the real property upon
which it is located, to allow the vehicle to remain on the property after it
has been declared a junked vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Police Chief may determine that a vehicle is a
junked vehicle and order the same removed.
   (C)   The Police Chief may order the removal of a junked vehicle after
finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh
the burdens imposed on the private property owner.
   (D)   The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss to the
apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood or area appearances.
   (E)   The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of area
residents.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06  JUNKED VEHICLE; CONCEALMENT.
   (A)   A single junked vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the rear
yard of the property provided it is concealed from view from the public street
and the adjoining property by an acceptable covering. The covering shall be
such that stagnant water does not collect and the vehicle is completely covered
to the ground. Neither plastic coverings nor bright colors are compatible with
the objectives stated in the preamble of the ordinance from which this chapter
is derived.
   (B)   The Police Chief shall determine whether the vehicle is adequately
covered.
   (C)   As the alternative to the above, or if there is more than one junked
vehicle, the vehicles may be housed in a garage or building, or behind a fence
of adequate height, so that the vehicles are concealed from view from the
public street and the adjoining property. All the structures shall comply with
applicable zoning and Building Code regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.07  PRE-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle which has been ordered removed shall be towed only
after notice by first class mail to the owner or person entitled to possession
of the vehicle, or to the owner or lessee of the real property upon which the
vehicle is located.
   (B)   If the proper name and address cannot be ascertained after the
exercise of reasonable diligence, then notice shall be given by affixing the
same on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle.
   (C)   The notice shall state the reasons for removal, the option of
concealment if a junked vehicle, the right to appeal to the Board of
Commissioners, and that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specified
date, no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed or mailed, unless
the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (D)   However, the notice may be omitted, as determined by the Police Chief,
in those circumstances where there is a special need for prompt action to
eliminate traffic obstructions or otherwise to maintain and protect the public
health, safety and welfare. The determination and the underlying factors shall
be documented by the Police Chief.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.08  APPEAL TO BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; PRE-TOWING HEARING.
   (A)   With respect to any motor vehicle for which notice is given, if the
owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle but instead
chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is an abandoned vehicle,
or a nuisance vehicle, or in the case of a junked vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens upon the private property
owner, the appeal shall be made to the Board of Commissioners in writing and
heard at its next regularly scheduled meeting, and further proceedings to
remove the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
   (B)   The owner or person entitled to possession shall have the right to
only one appeal for each vehicle. Subsequent proceedings on the same vehicle,
for the same reasons of removal, shall not entail the right of appeal to the
Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.09  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any motor vehicle which has been ordered removed may, as directed by
the Police Chief, be removed to a storage garage or area by the town, or by a
tow truck operator if contracted to perform the services for the town.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle is removed, the Police Chief shall immediately
notify the owner or person entitled to possession, the notice to include the
following information:
      (1)   The description of the vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a judicial probable-
cause hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give the notice by telephone, and in all
cases it shall be given in writing and either personally delivered or sent by
first class mail.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in the state, the notice shall be given
within 24 hours of removal of the vehicle. If the vehicle is not registered in
this state, notice shall be given within 72 hours of removal.
   (E)   The Police Chief shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the owner or proper party to
receive notice.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.10  RIGHT TO JUDICIAL PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE AND DISPOSITION
OF VEHICLE.
   After the removal of a motor vehicle, the owner or other person entitled to
possession has the right to a hearing for the purpose of determining if
probable cause existed for removing the vehicle. A request for hearing shall be
filed in writing with the county magistrate designated by the chief district
court judge to receive the requests. The magistrate shall set the hearing
within 72 hours of his or her receipt of the request, and the hearing shall be
conducted in accordance with the provisions of G.S. § 20-219.11. Any aggrieved
party may appeal the magistrate’s decision to district court.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.11  REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner or other person entitled to possession of the motor vehicle
may obtain possession of his or her vehicle by paying the towing fee, including
storage charges and any town fines, or by posting a bond for double the amount
of the towing fee and storage charges.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, or attempt to remove,
from any storage facility designated by the town, any vehicle that has been
towed and impounded pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, unless and
until the towing fee and storage charges have been paid, or bond in lieu
thereof posted.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.12  SALE AND DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   Any removed vehicle which is not redeemed in accordance with §
95.11 above shall be disposed of by the town. Disposition of the vehicle shall
be carried out in accordance with G.S. 44A, Article 1.
   (B)   No hearing in addition to a probable cause hearing is required. If no
one purchases the vehicle at sale, and the value of the vehicle appears to be
less than the amount of the lien, the town may authorize the destruction of the
vehicle.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.13  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a motor vehicle from
private property if the owner or lessee of the property could have the vehicle
removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case shall a vehicle be
removed by the town from private property without a written request from the
owner or lessee of the property, except in those cases where a vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or a junked vehicle which has been ordered removed by the
Police Chief.
   (B)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of a vehicle
from private property to indemnify the town against any loss, expense or
liability incurred because of the removal, storage or sale thereof.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.14  PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner, lien holder or other person entitled to possession of a motor vehicle,
for disposing of the vehicle as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.15  EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any motor vehicle which:
   (A)   Is located at a bona fide “automobile graveyard” or “junkyard” as
defined by G.S. § 136-143;
   (B)   Is housed in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise;
   (D)   Is a wrecked vehicle to be repaired or restored and is located on the
premises of a commercial garage or repair business, provided that the grass
around the vehicle remains cut and the grounds remain in a presentable order;
or
   (E)   Is located in a storage place or area maintained by the town.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, and shall further be subject to fines as established
by the Board of Commissioners from time to time.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
CHAPTER 96:  NOISE REGULATION
Section
   
96.01   Unreasonably loud or disturbing sound levels
   
96.02   Prohibited activities
   
96.03   Exceptions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 96.01  UNREASONABLY LOUD OR DISTURBING SOUND LEVELS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or assist
in creating any unreasonably loud, annoying, frightening and/or disturbing
noise within the corporate limits of the town, which annoys, disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, health, peace or safety of reasonable persons of
ordinary sensibilities taking into consideration volume, duration, frequency
and other characteristics of the noise.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2004)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities, among others, are in violation of §
96.01; however, the enumeration shall not be deemed exclusive:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or play any radio,
stereo, disc player, musical instrument or similar device, whether from a motor
vehicle or by a pedestrian, in a manner so as to be plainly audible to any
person other than the player or operator of the device at a distance of ten or
more feet in the case of a motor vehicle, or ten feet in the case of
pedestrian;
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or play any radio,
stereo, disc player, television, phonograph, musical instrument or similar
device which produces or reproduces sound, from a business or a residence, in a
manner so as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50 feet or more to any
person in a commercial, residential, multi-family dwelling or public place.
While this activity is prohibited at all times, the cut-off time for similar
activity at private parties and gatherings shall be 10:00 p.m. Sunday through
Thursday of each week, and 11:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday of each week;
   (C)   The operation of any motor or motorized equipment, except for
emergency purposes, at any time between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day of
the week which unreasonably or unnecessarily annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the
town in violation of §
96.01 above;
   (D)   The keeping or maintaining of any animal, including birds, which
repeatedly or habitually make noises so as to violate §
96.01 above;
   (E)   The operation of any nonconforming use in any zoning district within
the town so as to violate §
96.01 above;
   (F)   The sounding of any horn, siren or signal devise on any motor vehicle,
except as a danger signal to the public. Police, fire, ambulance or other
emergency vehicles are exempted;
   (G)   The creation of unreasonably loud, disturbing noise adjacent to any
school, educational facility, church or court during normal operating hours,
which is a reasonably prudent person would recognize as likely to unreasonably
interfere with the working of the institutions in violation of §
96.01 above;
   (H)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any day, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of the public safety, and then only under the
direction of the appropriate town official;
   (I)   The use of any electronic sound amplification equipment for
advertising or solicitation purposes, except with a permit lawfully issued by
the town;
   (J)   The firing or discharging of firearms anywhere within the town for the
purpose of making noise or creating a disturbance;
   (K)   The shouting and crying out of any person, including but not limited
to peddlers, barkers, hawkers or vendors, which disturbs the quiet and peace of
the neighborhood; and
   (L)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any stationary
internal combustion engine or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other
devise which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 11-5-2007)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the ringing of
the bells or chimes by churches within the town.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the conducting
of live remote broadcast by duly licensed radio stations upon business premises
at the request of the owner between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
   (C)   Lawn mowers and agricultural equipment used between daylight hours 7:
00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. when operated with all the manufacturer’s standard
mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and in proper operating condition.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2004; Ord. passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any section of this chapter by any person shall be a
misdemeanor and shall subject the offender to a fine of up to $50 and/or
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days. Each day of a continuing violation shall
constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of remedies authorized in divisions (A) and
(C) of this section, violations of this chapter may be prosecuted as a
misdemeanor in accordance with G.S. § 160A-175.
   (C)   A property owner shall be liable for the cost of abating the nuisance
or remedying the health or safety hazard created by a tenant for a third or
subsequent violation of this chapter. A property owner shall be liable for the
actual cost of abatement/remedy taking into account the cost of law enforcement
personnel salaries, law enforcement equipment, administrative overhead, law
enforcement record keeping, mailing and notification costs, and any other costs
directly or indirectly attributable to the cost of abating the nuisance or
remedying the health or safety hazard. In no case shall the cost assessed under
this provision be less than $100 for the third violation by the tenant (initial
assessment of property owner), or less than $75 for any subsequent assessment
for the same-tenant violation. If costs assessed pursuant to this division (C)
are not paid by the property owner within 30 days of receipt of a statement of
costs from the city, the costs may be placed as a lien on the property where
the hazard existed. However, any violation of a maximum sound level of 85 dBa
under provisions of a permit to exceed shall subject the offender to immediate
revocation of the permit and to a civil penalty in the amount of $200. Upon
revocation of a permit, maximum sound levels shall be reduced to those
otherwise permitted under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2004)
CHAPTER 97: CURFEWS FOR MINORS
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Curfew and enforcement
§ 97.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter shall be to establish a curfew for minors in the
town, thus assisting the parents and guardians of minors in the ever-increasing
difficult task of child rearing, and to promote the health, safety, and welfare
of both minors and adults in the town by creating an environment offering
protection and security for all concerned.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2015)
§ 97.02  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   GUARDIAN. A person who has the legal care and management of a minor as
defined by this chapter.
   MINOR. A person who has not reached his/her 18th birthday and is not
married, emancipated, or a member of the armed services of the United States.
   OFFICER. Any sworn law enforcement official employed by the town and having
authority to enforce laws of the town.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, park, playground or
place to which the general public has access and a right to resort for
business, entertainment, or other lawful purpose. A public place shall include
but not be limited to any store, shop, restaurant, tavern, bowling alley, cafe,
theater, drug store, pool room, shopping center and any other place devoted to
amusement or entertainment of the general public. It shall also include the
front of the immediate area of the above.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2015)
§ 97.03  CURFEW AND ENFORCEMENT.
   A curfew applicable to minors is established and shall be enforced within
the corporate limits of the town as follows:
   (A)   Time limits. It is unlawful for any minor to be or remain upon any
public place as defined in this chapter in the town any night between the hours
of midnight and 5 a.m. the following morning.
   (B)   Exceptions. The restriction provided by division (A) of this section
shall not apply to any minor:
      (1)   Who is accompanied by a guardian, parent, or other person charged
with the care and custody of such minor, or a person over 18 years of age
authorized by a parent or guardian to accompany the minor;
      (2)   Who is traveling between his/her home and place of employment, or
between his/her home and church, municipal building (if said municipal building
is open for some legitimate business purpose during the hours when this curfew
is in effect) or school where a function is being held;
      (3)   Who is seeking emergency medical care for himself/herself or some
member of his/her immediate family;
      (4)   Who is engaged in travel with written parental permission;
      (5)   Who is engaged in bona fide interstate movement by motor vehicle
through town, or beginning or ending in the town;
      (6)   Who is engaged in situations in which a minor is outdoors but
attending activities involving the First Amendment free exercise of religion,
freedom of speech, or the right of assembly;
      (7)   Who is engaged in travel in instances of reasonable necessity if
the minor possesses a written statement signed by the parent which describes
the minor, states the facts establishing such reasonable necessity, specifies
the streets, the time and the origin and destination of travel; and
      (8)   Who is engaged in travel by a direct route between a minor's place
of residence and a school, religious, recreational, entertainment, or any other
organized community activity, including activities involving the free exercise
of religion, speech or assembly.
   (C)   Responsibility of adults. It shall be unlawful for any parent,
guardian, or other persons charged with the care and custody of any minor to
knowingly allow or permit such minor to be in or upon, or remain in or upon a
public place within the town within the curfew hours set out in division (A) of
this section, except as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (D)   Responsibility of business establishments. It shall be unlawful for
any person, firm, or corporation operating a place of business (including a
place of amusement) to knowingly allow or permit any minor to be in or upon, or
to remain in or upon, any place of business (including a place of amusement)
operated by them within the curfew hours set out by division (A) of this
section, except as provided in division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   When a minor is found to be in violation of this chapter, the
officer will determine if the juvenile is a first-time offender. If so, he/she
will then be taken to the residence of his/her parent or guardian. A written
warning will be given to that adult, and an information report taken by the
officer, to include the name of the juvenile and adult, and the time, date and
location of the offense. This report will be turned into the Police Department
records division.
      (2)   If, upon checking, the juvenile is found to be a repeat offender,
he/she will be taken to the residence of his/her parent or guardian and the
adult (parent or guardian) will be subject to a criminal citation. A report
will be turned into the Police Department records division.
      (3)   If the juvenile is under 12 years of age, a report will be made and
a copy forwarded to the Northampton County Department of Social Services.
   (F)   Aiding and abetting by adult, guardian, or parent.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for an adult, guardian, or
parent to allow, permit, encourage, aid, or abet a minor in the violation of
division (A) of this section, except as provided in division (B) of this
section.
      (2)   Action may also be taken pursuant to G.S. 14-316.1, entitled
"Contributing to Delinquency and Neglect by Parents and Others".
   (G)   Refusal of guardian or parent to take custody of a minor. If any
guardian or parent refuses to take custody of his/her minor child found in
violation of this chapter, the officer with custody of said minor shall follow
the procedure set out in the North Carolina Juvenile Code, G.S. Chapter 7B.
   (H)   Emergency provisions. Under the authority of G.S. 14-288.1, whenever
the Mayor of the town deems that an emergency exists, and there is a clear and
present danger to the preservation of the public peace, health, life, or safety
or to public or private property in the town necessitating expansion of the
curfew provisions set forth in division (A) of this section, the Mayor may
effect such expansion effective for the period of the emergency by
proclamation. The proclamation shall contain a statement of the reasons for
such necessity, the period of the expanded curfew, and provide that no minor
under the age of 18 years shall be upon or about or remain upon or about public
places as defined by this chapter in the town between the hours of 8:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of the following morning unless accompanied by his/her parent,
guardian, or responsible adult. Said proclamation may further provide that no
parent or guardian of any minor under the age of 18 years shall allow the child
to be upon or about or remain upon or about any public place as defined by this
chapter in the town between the hours of 8:00 p.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of the following morning unless the child is under direction or
protection of some adult person with authority and consent of such parent or
guardian for his/her being there. Said proclamation shall become effective 30
minutes after being publicly announced by the Mayor for the said period or
until rescinded by the Mayor or repealed by the Board of Commissioners in the
manner in which ordinances are repealed. As soon as is reasonably possible the
proclamation shall be published and reported in the local media and posted
conspicuously around the town.
   (I)   (1)   Punishment. Any adult, guardian or business who violates this
chapter may incur a civil penalty to the town of up to $500.
         (a)   The first violation shall subject the violator to a written
warning;
         (b)   The second violation during a 12-month period shall subject the
violator to a $250  penalty; and
         (c)   The third and any subsequent violation during a 12-month period
shall subject the violator to a $500 penalty.
      (2)   In addition, a violation of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor under the laws of North Carolina.
(Ord. passed 8-4-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES
      
111.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  PRIVILEGE LICENSE TAXES
Section
   
110.01   Circus or menagerie
   
110.02   Apple and fruit trucks; peddlers
   
110.03   Fish
   
110.04   Dry cleaners
   
110.05   Retail beer and/or wine license tax
   
110.06   Consumption of beer, wine and ale
   
110.07   Music machines
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  CIRCUS OR MENAGERIE.
   On every exhibition of a circus or menagerie, for each day or part of a day,
there shall be a privilege license tax of $10; on pavilion shows including
panoramic scenes, flying trapeze, slight of hand performance, there shall be a
privilege license tax of $5 on each and every exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 8-1)
§ 110.02  APPLE AND FRUIT TRUCKS; PEDDLERS.
   (A)   A privilege license tax shall be put on all apple and fruit trucks
placing a stand for their product in the town at the following rates: $25 per
year; $5 per month; $10 for a single unit per week.
   (B)   A privilege license tax shall be put on all peddlers (house to house)
of fruits, vegetables, household goods and dry goods at the rate of $25 per
year.
(Prior Code, § 8-2)
§ 110.03  FISH.
   A privilege license tax shall be put on fish trucks transporting and
offering their product for sale within the corporate limits of the town at the
rate of $10 per year.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)
§ 110.04  DRY CLEANERS.
   A privilege license tax shall be put on all out of town dry cleaners
soliciting business and picking up clothes in the town at the rate of $25 per
year.
(Prior Code, § 8-6)
§ 110.05  RETAIL BEER AND/OR WINE LICENSE TAX.
   (A)   All establishments in the corporate limits of the town which are
authorized and empowered by the State Alcoholic Beverage Control Board to
engage in the retail sales of beer and/or wine shall before selling the same
apply to and obtain from the Tax Collector or Clerk of the town a municipal
license to sell at retail beer and/or wine, and the license tax for it shall be
at the following rate and shall be collected at the time of issuance of the
license:
      (1)   For “on premises” license for sale of beer, $15;
      (2)   For “off premises” license for sale of beer, $5;
      (3)   For “on premises” license for the sale of wine, $15; and
      (4)   For “off premises” license for sale of wine, $10.
   (B)   The rate of license tax levied in this section shall be for the first
license issued to one person and each additional license issued to one person
an additional tax of 10% of the base tax, the increased to apply progressively
for each additional license issued to one person.
   (C)   Every license issued under this section shall be for 12 months, and
shall expire on June 30 of each year. Provided, that when the license begins
the business or exercises the privilege after the expiration of seven months of
the current license year as set forth for the town, then the license shall be
required to pay one-half of the tax prescribed.
   (D)   Every license issued pursuant to this section shall be posted in
public view on the premises of the license where the sale of beer and/or wine
are conducted.
(Prior Code, § 8-8)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  CONSUMPTION OF BEER, WINE AND ALE.
   No person shall consume, serve, open or drink beer, wine or ale on or in the
public streets, roads, boulevards, alleys, sidewalks, school grounds or public
places within the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-19)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07  MUSIC MACHINES.
   A privilege license tax shall be put on any machine or machines which plays
records, or produces music at any location in the town which is engaged in the
business of operating, maintaining or placing the machines at that location, at
the rate of $5 per year per machine.
(Ord. passed 2-14-1973)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, business, firm or establishment violating any provision of
§
110.05 shall be subject to a penalty of $25.
(Prior Code, § 8-8)
   (D)   Any person violating any provisions of §
110.06 shall be subject to a penalty of $50.
(Prior Code, § 9-19)
CHAPTER 111:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Application for licenses
   
111.04   Application procedures
   
111.05   Prohibited acts and conduct
   
111.06   License; posting and display
   
111.07   Inspections
   
111.08   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
111.09   License renewal
   
111.10   Transfer of license
   
111.11   Locational restrictions
   
111.12   Nonconforming uses
   
111.13   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
111.14   Escort agencies
   
111.15   Nude model studios
   
111.16   Exhibition of sexually explicit films, videos and live performances
   
111.17   Exterior portions of sexually oriented businesses
   
111.18   Signage
   
111.19   Massages or baths administered by a person of the opposite sex
   
111.20   Hours of operation
   
111.21   Exemptions
   
111.22   Notices
   
111.23   Injunction
   
Appendix A: Applications
§ 111.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter shall be to set forth the regulatory and
licensing requirements for adult establishments located with the town. Adult
establishments, because of their very nature, are recognized as having serious
objectionable operational characteristics. Studies and experiences that are
relevant to the state have shown that lower property values and increased crime
rates tend to accompany and are brought about by adult establishments.
   (B)   The Town Board finds that regulation of these uses is necessary to
ensure that these adverse secondary effects do not contribute to the blighting
of surrounding neighborhoods and to regulate acts, omissions or conditions
detrimental to the health, safety or welfare and the peace and dignity of the
town. Regulation to achieve these purposes can be accomplished by the
procedures set forth hereinafter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually, oriented entertainment to their
intended market.
   (D)   This chapter represents a balancing of the legitimate ends of the
community by imposing an incidental, content neutral place, time and manner
regulation of sexually oriented businesses, without limiting alternative
avenues of communication and at the same time, requiring the business to carry
its share of financing administrative and enforcement activities.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.  A bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications (including books, magazines,
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section or other periodicals, videotapes, compact
discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other imagining
medium); and
      (2)   Having a preponderance (either in terms or the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of materials) of its
publications, including books, magazines, other periodicals, videotapes,
compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other
imaging medium, which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment that (omit-regularly) on a regular, sporadic or transient basis
features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions that are characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”;
or
      (4)   Persons who engage in erotic dancing or performances that are
intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or customers.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.  An adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult
motion picture theater, adult mini picture theater, escort agency, exotic car
wash, exotic maid service, nude modeling studios, sexual encounter center or
any other sexually oriented business that is similar in nature or intent to any
other adult entertainment business as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.  Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this section.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.  Any establishment or business wherein
adult live entertainment is shown for observation by patrons. This shall apply
whether the entertainment is presented on a regular, sporadic or transient
basis.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
that are characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”, and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this adult type
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building or premises used for
presenting motion pictures, a preponderance of which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined in this
section, for observation by patrons therein. ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER does
not include any adult mini motion picture theater as defined in this section.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building with viewing booths
designed to hold patrons which is used for presenting motion pictures, a
preponderance of which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined in this section, for observation by
patrons therein.
   EMPLOYEE.  A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually
oriented business on a full time, part time, contract basis or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent or otherwise, and whether or not the person is paid a salary,
wage or other compensation by the operator of the business. EMPLOYEE does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the
premises, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as a
patron or customer.
   ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  The increase in floor areas
occupied by the business by more than 10%, as the floor areas exist on February
4, 2002.
   ESCORT.  A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person and whose advertisements, promotions or obvious intent to the public is
sexual in nature.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration and whose advertisements,
promotions or obvious intent to the public is sexual in nature.
   ENTERTAINER.  Any person who provides entertainment within or at an adult
establishment, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for entertainment
and whether or not entertainment is provided by that person as an employee or
an independent contractor.
   EROTIC.  Any seductive, titillating, lustful, immodest, indecent,
suggestive, passionate or similar, reference, act, service or deed.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  And includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   EXOTIC CAR WASH.  A facility that offers a car cleaning or washing service
performed by employees that are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   EXOTIC MAID SERVICE.  Any cleaning service for a residence or business where
the employee is in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   LICENSED DAY CARE CENTER.  A facility licensed by the state, whether
situated within the city or not, that provides care, training, education,
custody, treatment or supervision for more than 12 children under 14 years of
age, where the children are not related by blood, marriage or adoption to the
owner or operator of the facility, for less than 24 hours a day, regardless of
whether or not the facility is operated for a profit or charges for the
services it offers.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license has been issued, as well as the
individual listed as an applicant on the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by
other persons for consideration.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY.  The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals or vulva,
with less than fully opaque covering; or human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   PREMISES.  The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to §
111.04 below.
   SEMI-NUDE.  The appearance of the female breast below a horizontal line
across the top of the areola at its highest point. This definition shall
include the entire lower portion of the human female breast, but shall not
include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast exhibited by a
dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, other wearing apparel provided the
areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or rumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUAL ORIENTED DEVICES.  Without limitation, any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or their device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks or female breasts.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Any business or enterprises that have as one of
their principal business purposes or as a significant portion of their business
an emphasis on matter and conduct depicting, describing or related to
anatomical areas and sexual activities as specified in G.S. § 14-202.10. This
term may be used interchangeably with adult establishment.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities that form a controlling interest in the
business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
that transfers the ownership of control of the business, except for the
transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
   TOWN.  Town of Conway, North Carolina.
   TOWN CLERK.  Chief administrative town official. The TOWN CLERK is
responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Business license.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain an adult
establishment in the town unless the owner or operator thereof has obtained an
adult establishment license from the town. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to operate the business after the license has been revoked or suspended
by the city or has expired.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any entertainer to knowingly perform any
work, service or entertainment directly related to the operation of an
unlicensed adult establishment within the town.
      (3)   It shall be prima facie evidence that any adult establishment that
fails to have posted, in the maimer required by this chapter, an adult
establishment license, has not obtained a license. In addition, it shall be
prima facie evidence that any entertainer who performs any service or
entertainment in an adult establishment in which an adult establishment license
is not posted, in the manner required by this chapter, had knowledge that the
business was not licensed.
   (B)   Entertainer license. It is unlawful for any person to work as an
entertainer at an adult establishment without first obtaining a license to do
so from the town, or to work as an entertainer at an adult establishment after
the person’s license to do so has been revoked or suspended by the town or has
expired.
   (C)   License classification and fees.
      (1)   The term of all licenses required under this chapter shall be for a
period of 12 months, commencing on the date of issuance of the license. The
application for a license shall be accompanied by payment in full of the fees
referred to in this chapter and established by the Town Board. Payment shall be
made by certified or cashier’s check or money order. No application shall be
considered complete until all the fees are paid.
      (2)   All license shall be issued for a specific location and/or person
and shall be non-refundable and nontransferable.
      (3)   The license fees shall be as set by the Town Board from time to
time and be recorded in the Town Board meeting minutes at which they are set.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Adult establishment business license.
      (1)   All persons desiring to secure a license to conduct, operate or
maintain an adult establishment under the provisions of this chapter shall make
a verified application to the Town Clerk. All applications shall be submitted
in the name of the person proposing to conduct, operate or maintain the adult
establishment.
      (2)   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the Town
Clerk and shall require the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s full name and any aliases or other names by
which the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and
the residence addresses for the past two years, the business and home telephone
numbers, occupation, date and place of birth, Social Security numbers, driver’s
license number and a recent photograph of the applicant;
         (b)   1.   The name of the adult establishment, a description of the
adult entertainment to be performed on the licensed premises, the name of the
owner of the premises where the adult establishment will be located, the
business address and the county parcel identification number on which the
business resides.
            2.   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of
land in division (A)(2)(a) above is/are not also the owner(s) of the
establishment, then the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract,
lease option contract or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable
right of the owners or proposed owners of the adult establishment to have or
obtain the use and possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be
used for the purpose of the operation of an adult establishment;
            3.   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared
within 30 days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the
property lines and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented
businesses within 1,000 feet of the property to be certified; the property
lines of any established religious institution/synagogue, school, library or
public park or recreation area within 1,000 feet of the property to be
certified. For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted;
            4.   Any of the criteria above shall not be required for a renewal
application if the applicant states that the documents previously furnished the
Town Clerk with the original application or previous renewals thereof remain
correct and current.
         (c)   The names, residence addresses for the past two years, Social
Security numbers and dates of births of all partners, if the applicant is a
partnership; and if the applicant is a corporation, the same information for
all corporate officers, directors and individuals having a 10% or greater
interest in the corporation;
         (d)   1.   A statement from the applicant, or from each partner, or
from each corporate officer, director or 10% shareholder that each person has
not been convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted
from prosecution on:
               a.   A felony criminal act within five years immediately
preceding the application; or
               b.   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application.
            2.   Where the felony or misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual
offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child,
pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the state or any
other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any other
state.
         (e)   If the applicant is a corporation, a current certificate of
existence issued by the North Carolina Secretary of State.
         (f)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant has personal
knowledge of the information contained in the application and that the
information contained therein is true and correct and that the applicant has
read the provisions of this chapter regulating adult establishments.
         (g)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by town police
officer. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to the S.B.I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file in the
Town Police Department.
         (h)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant(s) consents to
investigation of his or her background by the town to include fingerprinting
and that the applicant(s) agrees to furnish within ten days at his or her
expense, a criminal history from the clerk of court of any county in which the
applicant has resided during the five preceding years.
      (3)   Failure to provide the information and documentation required by
this division (A) shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall not
be processed until complete.
   (B)   Adult entertainer license.
      (1)   All persons desiring to secure a license under the provisions of
this chapter to be an entertainer shall make a verified application to the Town
Clerk. All applications shall be made in person to the Town Clerk or his or her
designee.
      (2)   All applications shall be submitted on a form supplied by the Town
Clerk and shall require the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s full name and any aliases or other names by
which the applicant is known or which the applicant has used at any time, and
the residence addresses for the past two years, the home telephone number date,
and place of birth, Social Security number and any stage names or nicknames
used in entertaining;
         (b)   The name and address of the adult establishment where the
applicant intends to work as an entertainer;
         (c)   A statement from the applicant, that the applicant has not been
convicted of, released from confinement for conviction of, or diverted from
prosecution on:
            1.   A felony criminal act within five years immediately preceding
the application; or
            2.   A misdemeanor criminal act within two years immediately
preceding the application, where the felony or misdemeanor criminal act
involved sexual offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse
of a child, pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of the
state, or any other comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws
of any other state.
         (d)   Photographs shall be taken of the applicant by the Town Clerk or
his or her designee and the Town Clerk shall have the photographs processed and
retain the copies;
         (e)   All applicants shall submit to fingerprinting by a town police
officer. The fingerprint cards shall be submitted to S.B.I. for processing.
Returned fingerprint cards and criminal histories shall be kept on file in the
Town Police Department;
         (f)   The applicant shall present to the town for copying
documentation that the applicant has attained the age of 21 years at the time
the application is submitted. Any of the following shall be accepted as
documentation of age:
            1.   A motor vehicle operator’s licenses issued by any state,
bearing the applicant’s photograph and date of birth;
            2.   A state-issued identification card bearing the applicant’s
photograph and date of birth;
            3.   An official and valid passport issued by the United States of
America;
            4.   An immigration care issued by the United States of America;
            5.   Any other form of picture identification issued by a
governmental entity that is deemed reliable by the Town Clerk; or
            6.   Any other form of identification deemed reliable by the Town
Clerk.
         (g)   A statement signed under oath that the applicant consents to
investigation of his or her background by the town to include fingerprinting
and that the applicant agrees to furnish within ten days at his or her expense,
a criminal history from the clerk of court of any county in which the applicant
has resided during the five preceding years.
      (3)   Failure to provide the information required by this division (B)
shall constitute an incomplete application and it shall not be processed until
complete.
   (C)   Application processing. Upon receipt of a complete application for an
adult establishment license or for an entertainer licenses, the Town Clerk
shall immediately commence investigation of the application as follows.
      (1)   In the case of an application for a license for an adult
establishment, the Town Clerk shall:
         (a)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Code Enforcement
Officer, the Zoning Board of Adjustment and to the Police Chief;
         (b)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall report to the Town Clerk no
later than 15 working days after the receipt of the application by the Town
Clerk whether or not a proposed adult establishment complies with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance regarding location of the adult
establishment, building, fire, health or similar state or local code(s). In the
event the Code Enforcement Officer fails to report the to the Town Clerk within
this time period, the Town Clerk shall proceed with processing the application;
         (c)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment shall review the application to
confirm compliance with the town's zoning ordinance. If the Board confirms
compliance, then a special exception shall be granted and the findings
transmitted to the Town Clerk within 20 working days of receipt of the
application;
         (d)   The Police Chief shall report to the Town Clerk no later than 15
working days after the receipt of the application by the Police Department the
results of his or her investigation of the applicant. In the event the Police
Chief fails to report to the Town Clerk within this time period, the Town Clerk
shall proceed with processing the application; and
         (e)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
applicable license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Code Enforcement
Officer, the Board of Zoning Adjustment and the Police Chief (or upon
expiration of the time periods referenced above without receiving a report),
the Town Clerk shall determine whether or not a license shall be issued. In no
event shall the time period for determination by the Town Clerk exceed 45
working days from the date the application is received by the Town Clerk,
unless consented to by the applicant.
      (2)   In the case of an application for a license for an entertainer, the
Town Clerk shall:
         (a)   Transmit a copy of the application to the Police Chief;
         (b)   The Police Chief shall report to the Town Clerk no later than
ten working days after receipt of the application by the Police Chief the
results of his or her investigation of the applicant. In the event that the
Police Chief fails to report to the Town Clerk within this time period, the
revenue manager shall proceed with processing the application; and
         (c)   Upon completion of his or her investigation, payment of the
appropriate license fee, and upon receipt of the report of the Police Chief (or
upon expiration of either or both time periods referenced above without
receiving a report), the Town Clerk shall determine whether or not a license
shall be issued. In no event shall the time period for determination by the
Town Manager exceed 15 days from the date the application is received by the
Town Clerk, unless consented to by the applicant.
   (D)   Reasons for disapproval. The Town Clerk must deny the license
application for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The license application is incomplete so as to not contain all
information required by this chapter;
      (2)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers,
directors and shareholders where applicable) has been convicted of a crime in
the local, state or federal court systems for any violations listed in this
section;
      (3)   The applicant (including any partners, corporate officers and
directors, where applicable) has made false or fraudulent statements in the
application, evidence of which is disclosed by a city background investigation
or by any other lawful means;
      (4)   The application for an adult establishment does not meet the
requirements of this chapter; and/or
      (5)   The applicant for a sexually oriented business has not received
special exception from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   Notice of approval or disapproval.
      (1)   Upon determination by the Town Clerk of the disapproval or approval
of the application, the Town Clerk shall notify the applicant by personal
delivery or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of the
applicant as shown on the application. In the event that the application is
disapproved, the notification shall state the basis for the disapproval.
      (2)   In the event an application is disapproved, the applicant shall
have 30 days from the receipt of the notice of disapproval to appeal that
determination to the superior court of the county.
   (F)   Changes to application. All applicants shall notify the Town Clerk of
any changes to the application within five working days of the date the change
occurs.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.05  PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted on the premises
of any adult establishment.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall be granted a license for an
adult establishment business or as an entertainer.
   (C)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall appear “bottomless” or in a state of nudity while on the
premises of the adult establishment.
   (D)   No owner, operator, manager, employee or entertainer, nor any customer
or patron, shall perform any specified sexual activities as defined in this
chapter, wear or use any device or covering exposed to view which simulates any
specified anatomical area, use artificial devices or inanimate objects to
perform or depict any of the specified sexual activities, as defined in this
chapter, or participate in any act of prostitution while on the premises of the
adult establishment.
   (E)   No owner, operator, manager, employee, entertainer, customer or patron
of an adult establishment shall knowingly touch, fondle or caress any specified
anatomical area of another person, or knowingly permit another person to touch,
fondle or caress any specified anatomical area of his or hers, whether the
specified anatomical areas are clothed, unclothed, covered or exposed, while on
the premises of the adult establishment.
   (F)   There shall be a minimum separation of 24 inches between an
entertainer or performer and any patron or customer.
   (G)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall mix, dispense or serve
any alcoholic beverage while in a state of nudity or semi-nudity.
   (H)   No owner, operator, manager or employee shall solicit, receive or
accept nor shall any customer, or patron give, offer or provide any gratuity,
tip, payment or any other form of compensation for entertainment for or while
either or both is/are in a state of nudity or semi-nudity. This also pertains
to the purchase of an unrelated item that includes a “free” dance, act or
service.
   (I)   No owner, operator, manager or other person in charge of the premises
of an adult entertainment premises shall knowingly allow or permit any person
under the age of 21 years of age to be in or upon the premises or knowingly
allow or permit a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06  LICENSE; POSTING AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Every person, corporation or partnership licensed under this chapter
as an adult establishment shall post the license in a conspicuous place and
manner of the adult establishment premises.
   (B)   Every person holding a license as an entertainer shall post his or her
license in his or her work area on the adult establishment premises so it shall
be readily available for the inspection by town authorities responsible for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.07  INSPECTIONS.
   All adult establishments shall permit representatives of the police, fire,
zoning or other town or state departments or agencies acting in their official
capacity, to inspect the premises as necessary to ensure that the business is
complying with all applicable regulations and laws.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.08  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall conduct a hearing to determine whether or not a
license should be suspended or revoked, with the hearing conducted within ten
working days of his or her knowledge that:
      (1)   The owner or operator of an adult establishment or the holder of a
license as an entertainer has violated, or knowingly allowed or permitted the
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   There have been recurrent violations of provisions of this chapter
that have occurred under circumstances that the owner or operator of an adult
establishment knew or should have known that the violations were committed;
      (3)   The license was obtained through false statements in the
application for the license, or renewal thereof;
      (4)   The license has been materially altered or defaced or is being or
was used by a person other than the license holder or at a location other than
that identified on the license or for a use or type other than that for which
the license was issued;
      (5)   The licensee failed to make a complete disclosure of all
information in the application for the license, or renewal thereof;
      (6)   The owner or operator, or any partner, or any corporate officer of
director holding as adult establishment license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter; or
      (7)   The holder of an entertainer license has become disqualified from
having a license by a conviction as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   At the hearing, the licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard, to
present evidence and to be represented by an attorney. Based on the evidence
produced at the hearing, the Town Clerk shall take, within five working days
after the hearing, any of the following actions:
      (1)   Suspend the license for up to 90 days;
      (2)   Revoke the license;
      (3)   Place the license holder on administrative probation or a period of
up to one year, on the condition that no further violations of this chapter
occur during the period of probation; or
      (4)   Take no action.
   (C)   The Town Clerk shall provide written notice of his or her decision to
the applicant by certified mail; returned receipt requested. The notice shall
be sent immediately after the Town Clerk determines what action to take, as
described above.
   (D)   In the event of suspension or revocation of the license or the
placement on administrative probations, the licensee shall have the right to
appeal that determination to the superior court of the county within 30 days of
receipt of the notice of suspension, revocation or probations.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.09  LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A license may be renewed by making application to the Town Clerk on
application forms provided for that purpose. Any license issued under this
chapter shall expire as of the end of the 12 month period from the date of its
issuance, and renewal applications for the licenses shall be submitted no
sooner than 45 days prior to expiration and no later than the town business day
immediately preceding the date of expiration of the license.
   (B)   Upon timely and proper application for renewal and the payment in full
of the license fee, the Town Clerk shall issue to the applicant a receipt
showing the date of the renewal application and granting to the applicant a
temporary extension of the license for a period of 45 days or until the
application for renewal is approved or disapproved. Any license issued under
the provisions of this chapter may be renewed by issuance of new license for an
additional 12-month period. All applications for renewal of license shall be
processed in the manner provided for the issuance of the initial license.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.10  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.11  LOCATIONAL RESTRICTIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses may be permitted as a conditional use in a
heavy or medium commercial district provided that:
   (A)   The sexually oriented business may not be located or operated within
1,320 feet of:
      (1)   A church, synagogue or regular place of worship;
      (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
      (3)   A public library;
      (4)   A boundary of any residential district;
      (5)   A public park or playground;
      (6)   A licensed day-care center;
      (7)   An entertainment business that is oriented primarily towards
children; or
      (8)   Another sexually oriented business.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as part of the premises where
a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line of the
premises of any use listed in division (A) above.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this chapter
that is in violation of the locational or structural configuration requirements
of this chapter shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
      (1)   The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue for a period
not to exceed two years, unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily
discontinued for a period of 30 days or more.
      (2)   The nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended
or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use.
      (3)   If two or more sexually oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet
of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually oriented
business that was first established and continually operating at a particular
location is the conforming use and the later established business(es) is
nonconforming.
   (B)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license. This provision applies only
to the renewal of a valid business license, and does not apply when an
application for a business license is submitted after a business license has
expired or has been revoked.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.13  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
enterprise has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she rents
or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.14  ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 21 years.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.15  NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 21 years is in violation of this chapter if
the person appears semi-nude or in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a
nude model studio. It is a defense to prosecution under this division (B) if
the person under 21 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or
visible by any other person.
   (C)   It is a violation of this chapter if the person appears in a state of
nudity, or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area
of a nude model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-
way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.16  EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS, VIDEOS AND LIVE PERFORMANCES.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, other video reproduction, or live performance that depicts specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A
professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designed street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all area of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches. The Town Clerk may waive the foregoing diagram for
renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously
submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been
altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Town Clerk or his or her
designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of the entire area
of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose
excluding restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If
the premises has two or more manager’s stations designed, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in a manner so that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required
in this division must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to
ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises that has
been designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the
application filed pursuant to division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   No viewing room may be occupied by more than one person at any
time.
      (8)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than five foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (9)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
      (10)   No licensee shall allow an opening of any kind to exist between
viewing rooms or booths.
      (11)   No person shall make or attempt to make an opening of any kind
between viewing booths or rooms.
      (12)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall, during each
business day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any
openings or holes exist.
      (13)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
floor coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces,
with no rugs or carpeting.
      (14)   The operator of the sexually oriented business shall cause all
wall surfaces and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material. No wood, plywood,
composition board or other composition board or other porous material shall be
used within 48 inches of the floor.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (14) above is in
violation of this chapter if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17  EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the merchandise or activities of the establishment to be
visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually oriented business to
have flashing lights, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent
permitted by the provisions of the ordinance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually oriented
business to allow exterior portions of the establishment to be painted any
color other than a single achromatic color. This provision shall not apply to a
sexually oriented business if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The establishment is a part of a commercial multi-unit center; and
      (2)   The exterior portions of each individual unit in the commercial
multi-unit center, including the exterior portions of the business, are painted
the same color as one another or are painted in such a way so as to be a
component of the overall architectural style or pattern of the commercial
multi-unit center.
   (D)   Northing in this chapter shall be construed to require the painting of
an otherwise unpainted exterior portion of a sexually oriented business.
   (E)   A violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.18  SIGNAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of any sexually
oriented business or any other person to erect, construct or maintain any sign
for the sexually oriented business other than the one primary sign and one
attached sign, as provided herein.
   (B)   Primary signs shall have no more than two display surfaces. Each
display surface shall:
      (1)   Not contain any flashing lights;
      (2)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (3)   Not exceed 125 square feet in area; and
      (4)   Not exceed 20 feet in height.
   (C)   Primary signs shall contain no photographs, silhouettes, drawings or
pictorial representations in any manner, and may contain only the name of the
enterprise.
   (D)   Each letter forming a word on a primary sign shall be of solid color,
and each letter shall be the same print-type, size and color. The background
behind the lettering on display surface of a primary sign shall be of a uniform
and solid color.
   (E)   Attached signs shall have only one display surface. The display
surface shall:
      (1)   Be a flat plane, rectangular in shape;
      (2)   Not exceed 32 square feet in are;
      (3)   Not exceed four feet in height and eight feet in width; and
      (4)   Be directly affixed or attached to any wall or door of the
enterprise.
   (F)   The provisions of divisions (B)(1) and divisions (C) and (D) above
shall also apply to secondary signs.
   (G)   Setback and height that is not in conflict with this section shall
apply.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.19  MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY A PERSON OF THE OPPOSITE SEX.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any sexually oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of those services is provided by a person of the opposite sex.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.20  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No sexually oriented business, except for an adult motel, may remain open at
any time between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturday,
and 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.21  EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that a person appearing in
a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   (A)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state, a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (B)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.22  NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Town Clerk or any
other city office, division, department or other agency under this chapter to
any applicant, operator or owner of a sexually oriented business may be given
either by personal delivery or by certified United States mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most recent address as
specified in the application for the license, or any notice of address change
that has been received by the Town Clerk. Notices mailed as above shall be
deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail. In the event that
any notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the Town Clerk or
his or her designee shall cause it to be posted at the principal entrance to
the establishment.
   (B)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the Town Clerk by any
person under this chapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the office of the Town Clerk.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the Town Clerk in writing of
any change of residence or mailing address.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
§ 111.23  INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business
without a valid business license or in violation of this chapter is subject to
a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. Each day
a sexually oriented business so operates is a separate offense or violation.
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
APPENDIX A: APPLICATIONS
APPLICATION FOR ADULT ESTABLISHMENT LICENSE
1.   Applicant’s full name: ____________________________
2.    Aliases or other name applicant known by/uses:
________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
3.   Residence address for last two years:
___________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
4.   Business phone: (____) ___________________   Home phone: (___)
___________________
5.   Applicant’s occupation: ________________________________________
6.   Applicant’s date of birth: ________________    Driver’s license number:
________________
   Social Security Number: __________________
7.   Applicant’s place of birth: _____________________
8.   Name of Adult Establishment: __________________________________________
9.   Address of Adult Establishment:
_____________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
10.   Northampton County Parcel Identification Number: ________________________
11.   Owner of property: _____________________
   Owner’s address: ________________________________________
12.   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land and
is/are not also the owner(s) of the establishment, then the lease, purchase
contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract or other document(s)
evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owners or proposed owners of
the adult establishment to have or obtain the use and possession of tract or
portion thereof that is to be used for the purpose of the operation of an adult
establishment.
13.   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30 days
prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property lines
and the structures containing any existing sexually oriented businesses within
1,320 feet of the property to be certified; the property lines of any
established religious institution/synagogue, school, library or public park or
recreation area within 1,320 feet of the property to be certified. For purposes
of this section, a use shall be considered existing or established if it is in
existence at the time an application is submitted.
14.   Description of adult entertainment to be performed.
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
IF ADULT ESTABLISHMENT IS A PARTNERSHIP, CORPORATION
PLEASE PROVIDE THE FOLLOWING:
15.   Names and addresses (last two years) of partners/directors, officers or
10% shareholders:
16.   I, ____________________________, swear and affirm that I have signed
under oath that I have personal knowledge of the information contained in the
application and that the information contained therein is true and correct and
that the applicant has read the provision of the ordinance regulating adult
establishments.
Signature: ____________________________   Date: ________________
NORTH CAROLINA
COUNTY OF _____________________
   I, _______________________________, a Notary Public for said County and
State, do hereby certify that ________________________ personally appeared
before me this the ___________ day of __________, 200    , and acknowledged the
due execution of the foregoing instrument.
(Official Seal)
___________________________________
Notary Public
My Commission expires: ______________________
APPLICATION FOR ADULT ESTABLISHMENT ENTERTAINER LICENSE
TOWN OF CONWAY
1.   Applicant’s full name: ____________________________________
2.   Aliases or other name applicant known as/has used:
_____________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
3.   Residence address of applicant (last two years):
________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
4.   Home phone number: (___) ____________      Other phone number: (___)
______________
5.   Applicant’s date of birth: __________________
6.   Applicant’s Social Security No. ___________________   Drivers License No.
_______________
7.   Applicant’s place of birth: _________________________________
8.   Applicant’s stage names or nicknames used in entertaining:
_______________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________
9.   List the last five establishments and their addresses where you performed:
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
10.   Name of Adult Establishment where you will work:
_________________________
11.   Address of Adult Establishment where you will work:
____________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________      ____________________
Signature of Applicant                  Date of Application
AUTHORIZATION TO RELEASE INFORMATION
   I, ______________________, have not been convicted of, released from
confinement of, or diverted from prosecution on:
   (a)   a felony criminal act within five (5) years immediately preceding the
application, or
   (b)   a misdemeanor criminal act within two (2) years immediately preceding
the application, where such felony or misdemeanor criminal act involved sexual
offenses, prostitution, promotion of prostitution, sexual abuse of a child,
pornography or related offenses as defined in the laws of North Carolina or any
oilier comparable violation of the laws of this state or the laws of any other
state.
   I hereby authorize, request and direct any person, institution or
organization, and all governmental agencies and instrumentalities (local,
state, federal) to release to the Town Clerk, the Conway Police Department, or
any designee, the documents and information required to meet the standards set
forth above. Said information can be furnished if the request is made in person
or in writing.
   Further, I appoint the Town Clerk, the Conway Police Department, or any
designee as my agent and attorney-in-fact for the sole purpose of collecting
information for processing my application to include fingerprinting. I also
direct that the Town Clerk , the Conway Police Department, or designee, be
permitted to make copies thereof at his or her discretion. This request may be
treated as if I were making the request in person.
   I agree to furnish within ten (10) days a criminal history from the clerk of
court of any county in which I have resided during the five (5) preceding
years.
Date: ________________   Signature: _______________________
   I, _________________, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I am the person who
executed the above authorization; I understand its meaning, intention and
effect and, the statements therein are true and correct.
   A photocopy of this release form will be valid as an original thereof, even
the said photocopy does not contain the original writing of my signature.
Date of Birth: _____________________      Social Security Number:
_______________________
_______________________________
Signature
Sworn to (or affirmed) and subscribed before me this ___________ day of
200____.
(Official Seal)
___________________________
Notary Public
My Commission expires: ________
(Ord. passed 2-4-2002)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT
      
131.   TRESPASSING
      
132.   EXPLOSIVES/WEAPONS
      
133.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 130:  DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section
   
130.01   Generally
   
130.02   Breaches of the peace
   
130.03   Inciting resisting to town ordinances
   
130.04   Hindering fire truck or firefighters
   
130.05   False alarm
   
130.06   Indecent conduct
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  GENERALLY.
   No person or persons shall engage in any disorderly conduct on the streets
of the town, such as cursing, swearing, hallooing, assembling in number of
three or more on the streets and engage in dancing, loud or offensive talking,
nor shall expose his or her private parts or any portion of them, nor be found
drunk or in a state of intoxication on the streets or any public place of the
town, nor engage in any other like disorderly conduct in the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  BREACHES OF THE PEACE.
   No person shall commit any breach of the peace, nor shall fight or encourage
others to fight, nor shall engage in any riotous conduct in the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  INCITING RESISTING TO TOWN ORDINANCES.
   No person or persons shall incite resistance to any lawful ordinance or
ordinances of the town, nor encourage or incite violation of any lawful
ordinance or ordinances of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  HINDERING FIRE TRUCK OR FIREFIGHTERS.
   No person or persons shall hinder any fire truck or any firefighters from
going to and from a fire or during a fire when the fire siren is blown.
(Prior Code, § 4-4)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  FALSE ALARM.
   No person shall intentionally set off or cause to be set off the town siren
for any purpose other than a true, sincere and bona fide means of alarm due to
a fire or other serious type of civil or criminal disturbance.
(Prior Code, § 4-5)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  INDECENT CONDUCT.
   No person shall urinate, nor defecate, nor masturbate, nor expose his or her
private parts to any person or on any public street, vehicular area, sidewalk,
alley or any other public place of the town.
(Prior Code, § 4-6)  (Ord. passed 7-19-1994)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone violating §
130.01 shall be subject to a penalty of $10.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)
   (C)   Anyone violating §
130.02 shall be subject to a penalty of $10, provided, that §
130.02 shall not be construed to relieve the Mayor from the duty of binding
over the offender according to law, if the offense is one properly triable by a
higher court.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)
   (D)   Anyone violating §
130.03 shall be subject to a penalty of $10.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)
   (E)   Anyone violating §
130.04 shall be subject to a penalty of $25.
(Prior Code, § 4-4)
   (F)   Anyone violating §
130.05 shall be subject to a penalty of $10.
(Prior Code, § 4-5)
   (G)   Anyone violating §
130.06 shall be subject to a penalty of $50.
(Prior Code, § 4-6)
(Ord. passed 12-7-1964; Ord. passed 7-19-1994)
CHAPTER 131:  TRESPASSING
Section
   
131.01   Private lots and church ground
   
131.02   Injuring signs, lamps and the like
   
131.03   Defacing buildings and the like
   
131.04   Decorations and displays
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  PRIVATE LOTS AND CHURCH GROUND.
   No person or persons shall trespass upon any church, church ground, nor upon
any private lot or garden, nor commit a nuisance thereon.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02  INJURING SIGNS, LAMPS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall injure or deface any notice, sign or signpost belonging to
another or any lantern, lamp or lamppost belonging to the town, nor remove any
gate, fence or sign without the consent of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  DEFACING BUILDINGS AND THE LIKE.
   No person or persons shall mutilate or otherwise injure any building or
fence enclosing the same or enclosing any lot.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  DECORATIONS AND DISPLAYS.
   No person shall operate the switch which shall turn on and off the Christmas
lights which are strung for the decoration of the town, unless the person is
expressly authorized to do so by the Mayor and Town Commissioners. Nor shall
any person tamper with any decoration or display which may be shown on the
streets or public school grounds in this town.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Anyone violating §
131.01 shall be subject to a penalty of $5.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
   (C)   Anyone violating §
131.02 shall be subject to a penalty of $5.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
   (D)   Anyone violating §
131.03 shall be subject to a penalty of $5 for each and every offense.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)
   (E)   Anyone violating §
131.04 shall be subject to a penalty of $10.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
(Ord. passed 12-7-1964)
CHAPTER 132:  EXPLOSIVES/WEAPONS
Section
Fireworks
   
132.01   Fireworks
Concealed Weapons Prohibited; Notice Required
   
132.15   Posting of signs required
   
132.16   Location of signs
   
132.17   Exemptions
Firearms
   
132.30   Firearms
   
132.31   Display or possession of weapons on town property and on public
streets
   
132.32   Discharge of firearms
   
132.33   Possession of firearms by a child
   
132.34   Display of firearms on municipal property prohibited
 
   
132.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 132.01  FIREWORKS.
   No firearms, fire balls, squibs, fire crackers or other explosive mixtures
shall be discharged or fired off any street or streets within the limits of the
town, and no cannon cracker shall be fired within the corporate limits of the
town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)  (Ord. passed 12-7-1964)
CONCEALED WEAPONS PROHIBITED; NOTICE REQUIRED
§ 132.15  POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED.
   The Town Administrator is hereby ordered to post appropriate signage on each
park, building or portion of a building now or hereafter owned, leased as
lessee, operated, occupied, managed or controlled by the town, as well as the
appurtenant premises to the buildings, indicating that concealed handguns are
prohibited therein.
§ 132.16  LOCATION OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior of each entrance by
which the general public can access the building, appurtenant premises or
park. 
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall exercise discretion in determining the
necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on the interior of
the building, appurtenant premises or park.
§ 132.17  EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions to this subchapter are as follows:
   (A)   Officers and enlisted personnel of the armed forces of the United
States when discharging their official duties as such and acting under orders
requiring them to carry arms and weapons;
   (B)   Civil officers of the United States while in the discharge of their
official duties;
   (C)   Officers and soldiers of the militia and the national guard when
called into actual service;
   (D)   Sworn law enforcement officers;
   (E)   County Animal Control Officers while in the discharge of their
official duties as such and acting under orders requiring them to carry arms
and weapons; and
   (F)   Employees of the town, a utility company, or a contractor to the town
may possess tools approved by their employer so long as the tools are not used
as a weapon.
FIREARMS
§ 132.30  FIREARMS.
   No firearms of any kind shall be discharged or fired at any time, or place,
within the corporate limits of the town, except when used in defense of person
or property, or pursuant to lawful directions of law enforcement officers.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)  (Ord. passed 10-4-1976)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.31  DISPLAY OR POSSESSION OF WEAPONS ON TOWN PROPERTY AND ON PUBLIC
STREETS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to display or be in
possession of any gun, firearm, knife, dagger, blackjack, club, sling shot,
metallic knuckles, razor, bow and arrow or other deadly weapon of any kind on
any town property or on the public streets and sidewalks of the town;
      (2)   Except that law enforcement officers and members of the armed
forces of any federal, state or local government may carry and discharge their
guns or firearms while lawfully acting within the scope of their official
duties.
      (3)   Except any person carrying a valid concealed handgun.
   (B)   No person shall fire or discharge any air rifle, spring-type rifle or
BB gun or similar device upon any public street or sidewalk or upon any
property owned by the town.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2014)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.32  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm:
      (1)   Carelessly or heedlessly in wanton disregard for the safety of
others; or
      (2)   Without due caution or circumspection and in a manner so as to
endanger any person or property; or
      (3)   Resulting in the unlawful property damage or bodily injury of
another.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm on the property
of another without his or her permission.
   (C)   It is unlawful to discharge a firearm in any manner which actually
results in the projectile leaving the property on which it was fired.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed as prohibiting discharge of a
firearm when used:
      (1)   In lawful defense of person or property;
      (2)   To take birds or animals pursuant to Chapter 113, Subchapter IV of
the North Carolina General Statutes (G.S. §§ 113-127 et seq.)
      (3)   Pursuant to lawful directions of law enforcement officers;
      (4)   By persons lawfully engaged in pest control or the taking of
dangerous animals;
      (5)   By members of the armed forces acting in the line of duty;
      (6)   At historical ceremonial or commemoration functions held for such
purpose, provided that in no event shall live ammunition be used or discharged;
or
      (7)   Firearms training classes taught and supervised by a certified
firearms instructor.
(Ord. passed 7-1-2014)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.33  POSSESSION OF FIREARMS BY CHILD.
   See G.S. § 14-316.
§ 132.34  DISPLAY OF FIREARMS ON MUNICIPAL PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to display firearms while upon public
property of the town.  This section shall not apply to any law officer in the
discharge of his or her duty or to any individual to defend that individual’s
home or person or to prevent the commission of a felony.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
132.01 shall be subject to a penalty of $1 for each offense; provided, however,
that nothing herein contained shall prohibit the exhibition of fireworks on
occasions of public rejoicing under the control of the Mayor or Constable of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
   (C)   (1)   Any person in violation of §§
132.15 through
132.17 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined $500
or imprisoned for six months or both.
      (2)   Weapons possessed in violation of this subchapter are hereby
declared to be contraband.  The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall
hold the weapon for disposal pursuant to court order.  In the absence of any
such court order, the weapon shall be destroyed.
   (D)   Anyone violating the provisions of §
132.30 shall be subject to a penalty of $25 for each offense.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)
(Ord. passed 12-7-1964; Ord. passed 10-4-1976)
CHAPTER 133:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Alcoholic Beverages; Consumption and Possession
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Consumption on public streets and municipal property prohibited
   
133.03   Open containers
   
133.04   Possession during special events prohibited
 
   
133.99   Penalty
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION
§ 133.01  DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the common meanings of words, the following definitions shall
be applicable herein:
   MALT BEVERAGE.  Beer, lager, malt liquor, ale, porter and any other brewed
or fermented beverage containing at least 0.5% and not more than 6% alcohol by
volume.
   OPEN CONTAINER.  A container whose seal has been broken or a container other
than the manufacturer’s unopened original container.
   PUBLIC STREET.  Any highway, road, street, avenue, boulevard, alley, bridge
or other way within and/or under the control of the town and open to public
use, including the sidewalks of any such STREET.
   UNFORTIFIED WINE.  Wine that has an alcoholic content produced only by
natural fermentation or by the addition of pure cane, beet or dextrose sugar,
and that has an alcoholic content of not more than 17% alcohol by volume.
§ 133.02  CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC STREETS AND MUNICIPAL PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor
vehicle to consume malt beverages and/or unfortified wine on the public street.
   (B)    Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person to consume malt
beverages and/or unfortified wine on any property, whether located inside or
outside the corporate limits, owned, occupied or controlled by the town,
including but not limited to public buildings and the grounds appurtenant
thereto, municipal parking lots, public parks, playgrounds, recreational areas,
tennis courts and other athletic fields.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.03  OPEN CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is not an occupant of a motor
vehicle to possess any open container of malt beverage and/or unfortified wine
on the public streets.
   (B)   Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person to possess any open
container of malt beverage and/or unfortified wine on any property, whether
located inside or outside the corporate limits, owned, occupied or controlled
by the town, including but not limited to public buildings and the grounds
appurtenant thereto, municipal parking lots, public parks, playgrounds,
recreational areas, tennis courts and other athletic fields.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04  POSSESSION DURING SPECIAL EVENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess malt beverages and/or
unfortified wine on public streets, alleys or parking lots which are
temporarily closed to regular traffic for special events, unless the governing
body adopts a resolution making other provisions for the possession of malt
beverages and/or unfortified wine at the special event.
Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
133.01 through
133.04 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with G.S. § 14-
4.
CHAPTER 134:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
Offenses Against Public Peace
   
134.01   Public drunkenness or disorderly conduct
   
134.02   Disturbing public meeting or exhibition
   
134.03   Loitering for the purpose of engaging in drug-related activities
 
   
134.99   Penalty
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
§ 134.01  PUBLIC DRUNKENNESS OR DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   See G.S. § 14-288.4.
§ 134.02  DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETING OR EXHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb, in the manner described in
G.S. § 14-288.4, any public meeting or exhibition, whether held in a house or
other building or out of doors, in any manner whatsoever.
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03  LOITERING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENGAGING IN DRUG-RELATED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      KNOWN UNLAWFUL DRUG USER POSSESSOR or SELLER.  A person who has been
convicted in any court within this state of any crime involving the use,
possession or sale of any substance referred to in the North Carolina
Controlled Substances Act, G.S. Chapter 90, Art. 5 who has been convicted of
any violation of any substantially similar law of any other state or of the
United States.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, public
vehicular area (as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01), public park and/or plaza, other
publicly owned or leased property, public transportation facility, school and
school grounds or property, common areas of apartment and condominium
communities, common areas of public housing projects, any place of business or
amusement which is open to the public, any private property which adjoins any
of the above described areas and to which the public has ready access, any
other property which is open to the public, whether publicly or privately
owned, and any motor vehicle in or on the above-described areas.
      REPEATEDLY.  Three or more times.
   (B)   Prohibited; violation determination.  It shall be unlawful for a
person to remain or wander about in a public place for the purpose of engaging
in a violation of any provision of the North Carolina Controlled Substances Act
(G.S. Chapter 90, Art. 5).  The conduct or factors that can be considered in
determining whether a person is remaining or wandering in a public place for
the purpose of violating any provision of G.S. Chapter 90, Art. 5, include but
are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Repeatedly beckoning to, stopping or attempting to stop passers-by
or attempting to engage passers-by in conversation;
      (2)   Repeatedly stopping or attempting to stop motor vehicles;
      (3)   Repeatedly interfering with the free passage of other persons;
      (4)   Being a known unlawful user, possessor or seller;
      (5)   Repeatedly passing to or receiving from passers-by, whether on foot
or in vehicles, money or objects;
      (6)   Attempting to flee or evade a police officer;
      (7)   Being at a location frequented by persons who use, possess or sell
controlled substances;
      (8)   Occupying a vehicle which is registered to a known unlawful drug
user, possessor or seller or which has been recently involved in illegal drug-
related activity; or
      (9)   Stopping, conversing with the occupant(s) of, handing money or any
object to the occupant(s) of, or receiving money or any object from the
occupant(s) of a vehicle which is registered to a known unlawful drug user,
possessor or seller or which has been recently involved in illegal drug-related
activity.
Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)    No arrest or charge is permitted hereunder unless the circumstances
establish probable cause to believe that the person intended to violate one or
more of the provisions of G.S. Chapter 90, Art. 5.  A violation of this
division (B) shall subject the offender to the penalties set forth in §
10.99.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   HOUSING PROVISIONS
      
151.   PROPERTY NUMBERING
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   ROAD NAMING
CHAPTER 150:  HOUSING PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Findings and purpose
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
Minimum Standards for Dwellings and Dwelling Units
   
150.15   Compliance required
   
150.16   Structural conditions
   
150.17   Basic equipment and facilities
   
150.18   Ventilation
   
150.19   Space, use and location
   
150.20   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
150.21   Control of insects, rodents and infestations
Administration and Enforcement
   
150.35   Duties and powers of Building Inspector
   
150.36   Right of entry of Building Inspector
   
150.37   Enforcement procedure
   
150.38   Method of service of complaints and orders
   
150.39   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
150.40   Costs a lien on premises
   
150.41   Alternative remedies
   
150.42   Other provisions
   
150.43   Violations
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:  Forms
Cross-reference:
   Flood Damage Prevention and Protection, see
Chapter 152
   Property Numbering, see
Chapter 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441, it is hereby found and declared that
there exists in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation; defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities; lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities; and other
conditions rendering dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, dangerous and detrimental
to the health, safety and morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the
residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town as authorized by G.S. §§ 160A-441 through 160A-450, it is the purpose
of this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly
authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
(Prior Code, § 23.01)
§ 150.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING UNIT or PREMISES are used in this
chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the words “or
any part thereof”.
   BASEMENT.  A portion of a dwelling which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   CELLAR.  A portion of a dwelling which is located partly or wholly
underground having an inadequate access to light and air from windows located
partly or wholly below the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED.  A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimums standards established by
this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by
finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED.  A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter except at a cost in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING.  Any buildings, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or
part thereof used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used,
and includes any outhouses and appurtenances belonging thereto or usually
enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any manufactured home or
mobile home which is used solely for a seasonal vacation purpose. TEMPORARY
HOUSING, as hereinafter defined, shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION.  The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by removing or making inaccessible materials that may serve as their
food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating or trapping; or by any other
recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE.  The organic waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION.  The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR.  The Building Inspector of the County of Northampton, the Town of
Conway or any authorized agent of the INSPECTOR.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING.  Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT.  Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER.  Any person who along, jointly or severally with others:
      (1)   Shall have title to any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
with or without accompanying actual possession thereof;
      (2)   Shall be a mortgagee of record for any dwelling, dwelling unit or
rooming unit; or
      (3)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling, dwelling unit
or rooming unit, as owner or agent of the actual owner, or as executor,
executrix, administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of
the actual owner. Any such person thus representing the actual OWNER shall be
bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter, and of rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were
the owner.
   PARTY or PARTIES IN INTEREST. All persons who have interests of record in a
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and any persons who are in possession
thereof.
   PLUMBING.  All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal units
(mechanical sink grinders), sewage disposal pipes, water closets, sinks,
installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other similar supplied
fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY.  The Town Board of Conway or officer who is in charge of
the department or branch of the government of the town or of the county or
state relating to health, fire, building regulations or other activities
concerning dwellings in the town.
   ROOMING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms forming a single, habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH.  Non-organic waste materials. The term shall include paper, rags,
cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard
trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter, glass and dust.
   SUPPLIED.  Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING.  Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter, which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than 30 consecutive days.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.  A dwelling which is UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION
is a dwelling in which conditions exist in a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house or rooming unit which violate or do not comply with one or more of the
minimum standards of fitness or one or more of the requirements established by
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 23.02)
§ 150.03  RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining a clean and sanitary
condition the share or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of dwelling or dwelling unit shall
dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by
placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases, the owner shall be
responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures. Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation thereof.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit minimum standards for
dwellings and dwelling units.
(Prior Code, § 23.03)
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS
§ 150.15  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held
out for use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum
standards of fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 23.10)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16  STRUCTURAL CONDITIONS.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for structural condition of
dwellings or dwelling units.
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, and shall not be
rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might
admit rodents.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in a condition so that they will not fail or collapse.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces.
   (G)   The roofs, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather tight and water tight.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are defective,
deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in a condition or location as to
constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
(Prior Code, § 23.11)
§ 150.17  BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for basic equipment and
facilities in dwellings and dwelling units.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to this public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold water
and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe
distribution system connected to a potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the State or
County Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants thereof. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
   (B)   Heating system. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities
for providing heat in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which it is
connected with a minimum temperature of 70°F. measured at a point three feet
above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents, or other facilities to
which heating appliances may be connected to heat all habitable rooms with a
minimum temperature of 70°F, measured three feet above the floor during
ordinary winter conditions.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor- or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in a manner as
determined by the State Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and installed in
accordance with the State Electrical Code.
(Prior Code, § 23.12)
§ 150.18  VENTILATION.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for ventilation in dwellings
and dwellings units.
   (A)   General. Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors.
   (B)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one window
or skylight which can easily be opened, or other device as will adequately
ventilate the room.
   (C)   Bathroom and water closet rooms. Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms, except that no window or skylight shall be required in
adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet room equipped with an approved
ventilation system.
(Prior Code, § 23.13)
§ 150.19  SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for space, use and the location
applicable to dwellings and dwelling units.
   (A)   Room sizes.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size in
each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code.
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over, and at least 35 square feet of floor area
for each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable
room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Floor area calculation. Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of
habitable room area. However, closet area and wall area withing the dwelling
unit may count for not more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The
floor area of any part of any room when the ceiling height is less than four
and one-half feet shall not be considered as part of the floor area for the
purpose of determining maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   Basements. No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window area, total open able window area, and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining that window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or access way.
(Prior Code, § 23.14)
§ 150.20  SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for safe and sanitary
maintenance applicable to dwellings and dwelling units.
   (A)   Exterior foundations, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather tight and rodent proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which
normal use would cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be
protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or
penetration of moisture or the weather.
   (B)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use would cause to be placed thereon.
   (C)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather tight, watertight and rodent
proof and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use would cause to be placed thereon and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so that it will
be reasonably impervious to water and will permit that floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded in order to obtain
thorough drainage and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   (H)   Noxious weeds. Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 23.15)
§ 150.21  CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   The following shall be the minimum standards for control of insects, rodents
and infestations in dwellings and dwelling units.
   (A)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be
used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide
an entry for rodents, shall be equipped with screens or other approved device
as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (B)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling
unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or
other pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit
in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for
the extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling
in a rodent proof or reasonably insect proof condition, extermination shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   Rubbish storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by this code and other town ordinances, and the owner, operator or
agent in control of that dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
removal of rubbish.
(Prior Code, § 23.16)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.35  DUTIES AND POWERS OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Inspector is hereby designated as the officer to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties and powers herein
prescribed.
   (B)   The Inspector is authorized to exercise powers as may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Inspector shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings
and dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings
and dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of
carrying out the objectives of this chapter with respect to the repair, closing
or demolition of such dwellings and dwelling units;
      (2)   To take actions, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
      (3)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this
chapter an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards
of fitness herein prescribed;
      (4)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
      (5)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with §
150.36 below and state law, and shall be made in a manner so as to cause the
least possible inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (6)   To appoint and fix the duties of the officers, agents and employees
as he or she deems necessary to assist in carrying out the purposes of this
chapter, and to delegate any of his or her functions and powers to the
officers, agents and employees; and
      (7)   To perform other duties as may be herein prescribed or by the Town
Board.
(Prior Code, § 23.35)  (Ord. passed 7-23-1974)
§ 150.36  RIGHT OF ENTRY OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspection, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable time all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units and the premises associated
therewith. The owner or occupant of every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming
house or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof shall give the Inspector
free access to that dwelling and its premises at all reasonable times for the
purposes of the inspection, examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to
any part of that dwelling or dwelling unit and its premises at all reasonable
times for the purpose of making repairs or alterations as are necessary to
effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order
issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 23.36)
§ 150.37  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing. Whenever a petition is
filed with the Inspector by a public authority or agent thereof, or by at least
five residents of the town, charging that any dwelling or dwelling unit is
unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the Inspector, upon
inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation,
he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a basis for
the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner of and parties in
interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a compliant stating the charges and
containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Inspector at a place
therein fixed, not less than ten nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Notice of the hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing. After the notice and hearing, the Inspector
shall state in writing his or her determination whether the dwelling or
dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, and if so, whether it is
deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (1)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of that determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter or
improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter within a specified period of time, not to
exceed 90 days. The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and
close the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alteration and
improvements have been made.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling is dilapidated, he or
she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support that
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner either to repair, alter or improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else to vacate and remove or demolish them
within a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair,
alter or improve, or to vacate and close the same within the time specified
therein, or if the owner of a dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit shall fail
to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair, alter or improve, or to
vacate and close and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the Town Board at its next regular
meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the superior court
for an order directing that owner to comply with the order of the Inspector, as
authorized by G.S. § 160A-446(g).
      (2)   In rem remedy. After failure of an owner of a deteriorated or
dilapidated dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with an order of the Inspector
within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief has not been sought or
has not been granted as provided in division (C)(1) above, the Inspector shall
submit to the Town Board an ordinance ordering the Inspector to cause that
dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered, improved, vacated, closed,
removed or demolished, as provided in the original order of the Inspector, and
pending removal or demolition, to place a placard on that dwelling as provided
by G.S. § 160A-443 and §
150.39 below.
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken
within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and
shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and with the Town Board of notice
of appeal which shall specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon
the filing of any notice of appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith transmit to
the Town Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the decision
appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the Inspector
refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her
decision shall remain in force until modified or reversed. When an appeal is
from a decision of the Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act,
the appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the
hearing by the Board, unless the Inspector certifies to the Town Board, after
the notice of appeal is filed with him or her, that by reason of the facts
stated in the certificate, a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant, a
suspension of this requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property,
in which case the requirement shall not be suspended except for due cause shown
upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Inspector, by the Town
Board, or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446
(f) and division (E) below.
      (2)   The Town Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Town Board may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or may
modify the decision or order appealed from, and may make the decision and order
as in its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have
all the powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four members of the
Town Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of the
Inspector. The Town Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any
case, where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying our the strict letter of this chapter, to adapt the application
of this chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of
this chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and
substantial justice done.
      (3)   Every decision of the Town Board shall be subject to review by
proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the
decision of the Town Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Petition to superior court by owner. Any person aggrieved by an order
issued by the Inspector or a decision rendered by the Town Board shall have the
right, within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision,
to petition the superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the
Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160A-
446(f).
(Prior Code, § 23.37)
§ 150.38  METHOD OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon
persons either personally or by registered or certified mail.
   (B)   If the whereabouts of those persons are unknown and cannot be
ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the
Inspector shall make an affidavit to that effect, and the serving of the
complaint or order upon that person may be made by publishing the same at least
once no later than the time at which personal service would be required under
the provisions of this chapter is a newspaper having general circulation in the
town.
   (C)   Where service is made by publication, a notice of the pending
proceedings shall be posted in conspicuous place of the premises affected by
the complaint or order.
(Prior Code, § 23.38)
§ 150.39  IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of any owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and upon adoption by the Town Board of an ordinance authorizing and
directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. §160A-443(5) and §
150.37(C) above. The Inspector shall proceed to cause the dwelling or dwelling
unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum standards
of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed and removed
or demolished, as directed, as directed by the ordinance of the Town Board, and
shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of the dwelling or dwelling unit
a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful”. Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. §
160A-443(5).
(Prior Code, § 23.39)
§ 150.40  COSTS A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   As provided by G.S. § 160A-443(6), the cost of any repairs, alterations or
improvements, or of vacating and closing, or removal or demolition, caused to
be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
150.39 above shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, having priority, and be collected in the
same manner as the lien for special assessments established by G.S. §§ 160A-216
through 160A-238.
(Prior Code, § 23.40)
§ 150.41  ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and §
150.99, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 23.41)
§ 150.42  OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
   (B)   Any ordinance enacted by the Commissioners of the county relative to
minimum housing standards shall not be suspended by this chapter, and any
county ordinance shall be applicable within the corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 23.42)  (Ord. passed 7-23-1974)
§ 150.43  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve it, or to vacate and close
and remove or demolish it, upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as
herein provided, within the time specified in that order. Each day that any
such failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order continues shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit,
with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
150.37 above, to occupy or permit the occupancy thereto after the time
prescribed in the order of its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing. Each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 23.43)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty established by division (A) above, and the
remedies provided by other provisions of this chapter, this chapter may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 23.99)
APPENDIX A: FORMS
1. Complaint and notice hearing before Building Inspector under Housing Code.
2. Affidavit; service by publication (This form can be used in connection with
Form #1 or
Form #4).
3. Proof of service; complaint and notice of hearing.
4. Findings of fact and order.
5. Proof of service; findings of fact and order of Building Inspector.
6. A resolution directing the (City) (Town) Attorney to petition the Superior
Court for an order requiring the owner of certain property to comply with the
Housing Code and the order of certain property to comply with the Housing Code
and the order of the Building Inspector issued pursuant thereto.
7. An ordinance directing the Building Inspector to repair the property herein
described as unfit for human habitation and directing that a notice be paced
thereon that the same may not be occupied until repaired.
8. An ordinance directing the Building Inspector to remove or demolish the
property herein described as unfit for human habitation and directing that a
notice be placed thereon that the same may not be occupied.
9. Notice of appeal.
10. Notice of hearing of the Zoning Board of Adjustment on appeal from order of
Building Inspector.
11. Affidavit; service by publication (This form can be used in connection with
Form #10 or
Form #13).
12. Proof of service; notice of hearing of the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
13. Order of Zoning Board of Adjustment.
14. Proof of service; order of Housing Appeal Board.
Editor’s note:
   Included in this appendix are suggested forms for the implementation of the
Housing Code contained
     in this chapter. They derive unchanged from the 1978 edition of the North
Carolina/Model Housing
     Code, as adopted by the North Carolina League of Municipalities.
FORM #1
                                                FILE NO. _________
COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING
BEFORE BUILDING INSPECTOR UNDER HOUSING CODE
TO:   Owners and parties in interest in the dwelling (unit) located at
____________________ in the
(City) (Town) of _______________, North Carolina.
   YOU ARE HEREBY NOTIFIED that the dwelling (unit) located at the place
designated above is in a condition that appears to be unfit for human
habitation and to violate the (City) (Town) Housing Code in the following ways:
   1.   (Specify the violation and the applicable Housing Code Section.)
   2.   Etc.
   YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that a hearing will be held before the Building
Inspector of the (City) (Town) of _______________ at his or her office in the
(City) (Town) Hall at ___:___ _.m. on the ______________ day of ____________,
200___ (a time not less than ten nor more than 30 days after serving of the
complaint) for the purpose of finding the facts as to whether or not the
condition of such building falls within the scope fo the above-mentioned
sections of the Housing Code. At the hearing, you shall be entitled to offer
such evidence which is relevant or material to the questions sought to be
determined or the remedies sought to be effected.
   YOU ARE FURTHER NOTIFIED that if, upon such hearing, the Building Inspector
shall find that the conditions in the above-described dwelling (unit) do in
fact violate the Housing Code, and do in fact render such dwelling (unit) unfit
for human habitation, the building inspector will issue an order in writing
directed to the owner of such dwelling (unit) requiring the owner to remedy
these conditions by repairing the same or by vacating, demolishing or removing
the same, or by taking such other steps as may be necessary to remedy these
conditions. The Building Inspector may make such other orders and take such
other procedures as are authorized under the Housing Code and the General
Statutes of North Carolina.
   Further information as to this matter may be obtained by contacting the
undersigned.
   This the ______________ day of _____________, 200____.
__________________________________
Building Inspector
FORM #2
NOTE: If the whereabouts of an owner are unknown, this affidavit form should be
executed by the Building Inspector prior to publication in a newspaper. This
form can be used in connection with publication of the complaint (
Form #1) or the findings of fact and order (
Form #4).
                                                   FILE NO. ________
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA            )
COUNTY OF ___________________         )         AFFIDAVIT
(CITY) (TOWN) OF __________________   )         SERVICE BY PUBLICATION
IN RE ABANDONED STRUCTURE LOCATED AT:
(Name of Building Inspector), being first duly sworn, deposes and says:
   1.   That he or she is the Building Inspector of the (City) (Town) of
________________________,
duly authorized to enforce the (City) (Town) Housing Code against the above-
entitled dwelling (unit); and
   2.   That [name of owner(s) of dwelling (unit)] (is) (are) the owner(s) of
the above-entitled dwelling (unit); and
   3.   That, according to the information and belief of the Building
Inspector, the whereabouts of the owner(s) are unknown and cannot be
ascertained by the Building Inspector in the exercise of reasonable diligence;
and
   4.   That service of the (complaint) (findings of fact and order) must be
made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in the (City)
(Town), as authorized by G.S. § 160A-445.
______________________________
BUILDING INSPECTOR
   Sworn to and subscribed before me, this, the _______________ day of
______________, 200___.
__________________________
Notary Public
My Commission expires: ______________.
FORM #3
FILE NO. _______
PROOF OF SERVICE
COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING
   Service of the attached Complaint and Notice was made on the __________ day
of _____________, 200____, by:
   1.   Delivering a copy of Complaint and Notice to
_________________________________, at _____________________________________,
-OR-
   2.   Mailing a copy of Complaint and Notice by registered or certified mail
to _________________, at ____________________________________,
-OR-
   3.   The name or whereabouts of the owner were unknown and could not, after
due diligence, be discovered. This Notice and Complaint was served by
publication after proper affidavit, as authorized by G.S. § 160A-445 and by
posting a copy thereof on the outside of the dwelling (unit) located at
_________________________ on the date mentioned above (specify date of posting
if different from above).
_______________________      ________________________________________
Date                     BUILDING INSPECTOR
NOTE:   If the complaint is served by registered or certified mail, keep the
return receipt with this form. If the complaint is served by publication, keep
the publisher’s affidavit of publication with this form.
FORM #4
FILE NO. _______________
FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDER
TO:   Owners and parties in interest of the abandoned dwelling (unit) located
at _______________
____________ in the (City) (Town) of _____________________, North Carolina.
   The undersigned Building Inspector of the (City) (Town) of
_______________________, pursuant to law, conducted a hearing at the time and
place stated in the Complaint and Notice heretofore issued and served, or at a
time to which the hearing was continued with previous notice to the above-named
owners and parties in interest or their agents or attorneys. At the hearing,
the Answer, if any, filed by the owners and parties in interest was read and
considered, and the evidence, contentions, and views of the owners and parties
in interest were carefully analyzed and considered by the undersigned. In
addition to other evidence presented, the undesigned personally inspected the
dwelling (unit) described above, and such inspection and examination has been
considered, along with the other evidence offered at this hearing.
   Upon the record and all of the evidence offered and contentions made, the
undersigned Building Inspector does hereby find the following facts:
   1.   The above-named owners and parties in interest with respect to the
dwelling (unit) located at the place specified above were duly surveyed as
required by law with written Complaint and Notice of Hearing which set forth
the Complaint that the dwelling (unit) located at the above address is unfit
for human habitation and violative of the (City) (Town) Housing Code, and the
particulars thereof, and fixed a time and place for a hearing upon the
complaint as provided by law. At the hearing, the following owners, persons in
interest, or their agents or attorneys, were present and participated therein:
(insert names).
   2.   The building described above violates the (City) (Town) Housing Code,
by reason of the following conditions found to be present and to exist in and
about the structure:
      A.   (Specify the violation and applicable Housing Code section.)
      B.   Etc.
   3.   Due to these conditions the building described above is found to be
(deteriorated) (dilapidated) conditioned within the meaning of the City/Town
Housing Code, and to be unfit for human habitation.
   IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED that the owners of the dwelling (unit) named above
are required to bring such dwelling (unit) unto compliance with the Housing
Code by repairing, altering or improving the deteriorated structure in order to
render it fit for human habitation or by vacating and closing the structure as
a human habitation (repairing), altering or improving the dilapidated structure
in order to render it fit for human habitation by demolishing or removing the
structure from the premises by a date not later than the _________ day of
_______________________, 200______. (A date not more than 90 days from the date
of this order.)
This, the ____________ day of ____________________, 200_____.
______________________________________
BUILDING INSPECTOR
NOTE: If necessary, the Building Inspector’s order may also require the
dwelling or dwelling unit to be vacated and closed until the necessary repairs
are made.
FORM #5
FILE NO. ______________________
PROOF OF SERVICE
FINDINGS OF FACT AND ORDER OF BUILDING INSPECTOR
Service of the attached Findings of Fact and Order was made on the _______ day
of _______________, 200_____, by:
1.   Delivering a copy of Findings of Fact and Order to
____________________________________ at __________________________________.
OR
2.   Mailing a copy of Findings of Fact and Order by certified or registered
mail to ________________ at ______________________________________.
OR
3.   The name or whereabouts of the owner were unknown and could not, after due
diligence, be discovered. This Findings of Fact and Order was served by
publication, after proper affidavit, as authorized by G.S. 160A-445, and by
posting a copy thereof on the outside of the dwelling located at
____________________________ on the date mentioned above (specify date of
posting, if different from above).
________________         _____________________________________      
DATE                  BUILDING INSPECTOR
NOTE:
1.   If the findings of fact and order are served by certified or registered
mail, keep the return receipt with this form. If the findings of fact and order
are served by publication, keep the publisher’s affidavit of publication with
this form.
2.   If the whereabouts of the owner are unknown, publication should not be
undertaken until the Building Inspector has executed an affidavit to that
effect (see
Form #2).
FORM #6
FILE NO. _____________
A RESOLUTION DIRECTING THE (CITY) (TOWN) ATTORNEY TO PETITION THE SUPERIOR
COURT FOR AN ORDER REQUIRING THE OWNER OF CERTAIN PROPERTY TO COMPLY WITH THE
HOUSING CODE AND THE ORDER OF THE BUILDING INSPECTOR ISSUED PURSUANT THERETO.
WHEREAS, the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town) of ________________________
finds that the dwelling herein described is unfit for human habitation under
the provisions of the Housing Code, and that all of the procedures of the
Housing Code have been complied with; and
WHEREAS, the owner of this dwelling has failed to comply with lawful order of
the Building Inspector to repair the same to meet the requirements of the
Housing Code, or to demolish the same, within the time therein prescribed;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the ____(Governing Body)____ of the (City)
(Town) of ____________________ that the (City) (Town) Attorney is hereby
authorized and directed to proceed, as authorized by G.S. 160A-446(g), to
petition the Superior Court of _County for an order requiring the owner of the
dwelling located at _____________________________________ in the (City) (Town)
of _______________________, North Carolina to take such steps as may be
necessary to comply fully with
the order of the Building Inspector issued on the ___________ day of
_________________, 200___.
Adopted this ________ day of _______________, 200___.
___________________________
MAYOR
ATTEST:
______________________________________
(City) (Town) Clerk
FORM #7
FILE NO. ______________
AN ORDINANCE DIRECTING THE BUILDING INSPECTOR TO REPAIR THE PROPERTY HEREIN
DESCRIBED AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION AND DIRECTING THAT A NOTICE BE PLACED
THEREON THAT THE SAME MAY NOT BE OCCUPIED UNTIL REPAIRED.
WHEREAS, the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town) of _____________________
finds that the dwelling described herein is unfit for human habitation under
the (City) (Town) Housing Code, and that all of the procedures of the Housing
Code have been complied with; and
WHEREAS, this dwelling should be repaired to meet the requirements of the
Housing Code, as directed by the Building Inspector, and should be placarded by
placing thereon a notice prohibition use for human habitation; and
WHEREAS, the owner of this dwelling has been given a reasonable opportunity to
bring the dwelling up to the standards of the Housing Code in accordance with
G.S. 160A-443(5) pursuant to an order issued by the Building Inspector on
________________, and the owner has failed to comply with the order:
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town) of
________, that:
Section 1:   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to place
a placard containing the legend:
“This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this
building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful” on the building
located at the following address:
Section 2:   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to
proceed to repair, alter or improve and (if necessary) to vacate and close the
above described dwelling in accordance with the order to the owner thereof
dated the ___________ day of _____________, 200_____, and in accordance with
the Housing Code and G.S. 160A-443.
Section 3.   The cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or of vacating
and closing shall constitute a lien against the real property upon which the
cost was incurred. The lien shall be filed in the office of the (City) (Town)
Tax Collector, and shall have the same priority and be collected in the same
manner as the lien for special assessments in Article 10 of G.S. Chapter 160A.
Upon completion of the required repairs, alterations or improvements, the
Building Inspector shall certify the cost of same to the Tax Collector.
Section 4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be
removed the placard from any building to which it is affixed. It shall likewise
be unlawful for any person to occupy or to permit the occupancy of any building
therein declared to be unfit for human habitation.
Section 5.   This ordinance shall become effective upon its adoption. Adopted
this ________day of __________________, 200___.
____________________________
MAYOR
ATTEST:
________________________________
(CITY) (TOWN CLERK)
NOTE: This ordinance must be recorded in the office of the register of deeds in
the county where the property is located and must be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index.
FORM #8
FILE NO. ______________
AN ORDINANCE DIRECTING THE BUILDING INSPECTOR TO REMOVE OR DEMOLISH THE
PROPERTY HEREIN DESCRIBED AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION AND DIRECTING THAT A
NOTICE BE PLACED THEREON THAT THE SAME MAY NOT BE OCCUPIED.
WHEREAS, the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town) of _____________ finds that
the dwelling described herein is unfit for human habitation under the (City)
(Town) Housing Code, and that all of the procedures of the Housing Code have
been complied with; and
WHEREAS, this dwelling should be removed or demolished, as directed by the
Building Inspector, ans should be placarded by placing thereon a notice
prohibiting use for human habitation; and
WHEREAS, the owner of this dwelling has been given a reasonable opportunity to
bring the dwelling up to the standards of the Housing Code in accordance with
G.S. 160A-443(5) pursuant to an order issued by the Building Inspector on
_________________, and the owner has failed to comply with the order;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the (Governing Body) of the (City) (Town) of
_____________________, that:
Section 1.   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to place
a placard containing the legend:
“This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or occupation of this
building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
On the building located at the following address:
____________________________________________.
Section 2.   The Building Inspector is hereby authorized and directed to
proceed to remove or demolish the above described dwelling in accordance with
his or her order to the owner thereof dated the day of _____________,
20________, and in accordance with the Housing Code and G.S. 160A-443.
Section 3   (a)   The cost of removal or demolition shall constitute a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred. The lien shall be
filed in the office of the (City) (Town) Tax Collector, and shall have the same
priority and be collected in the same manner as the lien for special
assessments in Article 10 of G.S. Chapter 160A.
         (b)   Upon completion of the required removal or demolition, the
Building Inspector shall sell the material of the dwelling and credit the
proceeds against the cost of removal or demolition. The Building Inspector
shall certify the remaining balance to the Tax Collector. If a surplus remains
after sale of the materials and satisfaction of the cost of removal or
demolition, the Building Inspector shall deposit the surplus in the Superior
Court where it shall be secured and disbursed in the manner provided by G.S.
160A-446(g).
Section 4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be
removed the placard from any building to which it is affixed. It shall likewise
be unlawful for any person to occupy or to permit the occupancy of any building
therein declared to be unfit for human habitation.
Section 5.   This ordinance shall become effective upon its adoption. Adopted
this __________day of __________________, 20_____.
__________________________________
MAYOR
ATTEST:
__________________________________
(CITY) (TOWN) CLERK
Note: This ordinance must be recorded in the office of the register of deeds in
the county where the property is located and must be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index.
FORM #9
FILE NO. _________________
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA      )
COUNTY OF ___________         )      BEFORE THE ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
(CITY) (TOWN) OF __________      )
IN RE DWELLING LOCATED AT   )      NOTICE OF APPEAL
                           )
______________________________   )
To the Zoning Board of Adjustment and the Building Inspector of the (City)
(Town) of __________ from the order of the Building Inspector, dated the
_______ day of ___________________, 20_____, relating to the dwelling located
at ____________________________________________________________.
This appeal is taken for the following reasons:
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
This the __________ day of ______________________, 20____.
_______________________________
APPELLANT
Filed with the Building Inspector _______________________________
________________________________
BUILDING INSPECTOR
Filed with the Zoning Board of Adjustment ______________________________
_______________________________
CLERK
Note: If a Housing Appeals Board has been created to hear appeals involving
this code, then the words “Housing Appeals Board” should be substituted for the
words “Zoning Board of Adjustment” throughout
Forms #9-
14.
FORM #10
FILE NO. _____________
NOTICE OF HEARING OF THE ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
ON APPEAL FROM ORDER OF BUILDING INSPECTOR
TO: _______________________________
Notice is hereby given that the Zoning Board of Adjustment will conduct a
hearing at _______ o’clock _.m. on the _______ day of _________________,
20____, at the (City) (Town) Hall, on your appeal from the order of the
Building Inspector dated the _________ day of __________________, 20____,
concerning the property located at
_______________________________________________________. At such hearing you
may be heard in person or by agent or counsel upon all legal or factual
questions relating to this matter and shall be entitled to offer such evidence
as you may desire which is relevant or material to the order.
This is the ________ day of _________________, 20____.
____________________________
CLERK
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
FORM #11
Note: If the whereabouts of an owner are unknown, this affidavit form should be
executed by the Clerk to the Zoning Board of Adjustment prior to publication in
a newspaper. This form can be used in connection with publication of the notice
of hearing (Form#10) or an order of the board (
Form#13).
FILE NO. _____________
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA      )
COUNTY OF _______________      )      AFFIDAVIT
(CITY) (TOWN) of ______________   )
IN RE DWELLING LOCATED AT    )
                           )      SERVICE BY PUBLICATION
                           )
(Name of Clerk of Zoning Board of Adjustment), being first duly sworn, deposes
and says:
1.   That he or she is the Clerk to the Zoning Board of Adjustment of the
(City) (Town) of _________ _____________, the body which is authorized to hear
appeals arising under the (City) (Town) Housing Code; and
2.   That (name of owner(s) of dwelling) (is) (are) the owner(s) of the above
entitled dwelling; and
3.   That according to the information and belief of the clerk, the whereabouts
of the owner(s) are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the clerk in the
exercise of reasonable diligence; and
4.   That service of the (notice of hearing) (order) of the Zoning Board of
Adjustment must be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the (City) (Town), as authorized by G.S. 160A-445 and by posting
a copy thereof on the outside of the dwelling at the location stated above.
_____________________________________
Clerk - Zoning Board of Adjustment
Sworn to and subscribed before me, this, the ________ day of ___________,
20____.
______________________
NOTARY PUBLIC
My Commission Expires: ________________
FORM # 12
FILE NO. ________
PROOF OF SERVICE
NOTICE OF HEARING OF THE ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Service of the attached Notice was made on the _________ day of
_________________, 200___, by:
1.   Delivering a copy of the Notice to
_____________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
OR
2.   Mailing a copy of Notice by registered or certified mail to
__________________________________
______________________________________________________________________________________
OR
3.   The name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence, be
discovered, and this Notice by G.S. 160A-445 and by posting a copy thereof on
the outside of the dwelling at the above-stated location on the above mentioned
dated (specify dated if different from above).
______________________________________________
CLERK - ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Note: If the notice of hearing is served by certified or registered mail, keep
the return receipt with this form. If the notice of hearing is served by
publication, keep the publisher’s affidavit of publication with this form.
FORM # 13
FILE NO. ___________
STATE OF NORTH CAROLINA            )
COUNTY OF ____________________      )      BEFORE THE ZONING BOARD
(CITY) (TOWN) of ___________________   )      OF ADJUSTMENT
IN RE DWELLING LOCATED AT            )      ORDER
_______________________________________   )
_______________________________________   )
The appeal in the above-entitled matter having been heard after due notice, the
Zoning Board of Adjustment in its discretion finds, and it is hereby ordered,
that the Findings of Fact and Order of the Building Inspector dated the
________ day of ________________, 200_____, are (affirmed) (reversed)
(modified) in the following reasons:
____________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________, for the following reasons:
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________.
This the _________ day of _______________, 20____.
_________________________________________________
CHAIRMAN - ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
_________________________________________________
CLERK
FORM #14
FILE NO. ______________
PROOF OF SERVICE
ORDER OF HOUSING APPEALS BOARD
Service of the attached Order was made on the __________ day of _____________,
20____, by:
1.   Delivering a copy of the Order to
_____________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________
OR
2.   Mailing a copy of the Order by certified or registered mail to
_____________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________
OR
3.   The name or whereabouts of the owner cannot, after due diligence, be
discovered, and this Order was served by publication, after proper affidavit,
as authorized by G.S. 160A-445 and by posting a copy thereof on the outside of
the dwelling at the above-stated location on the above-mention date.
__________________________________________
CLERK - ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
Note:
1.   If the notice of hearing is served by certified or registered mail, keep
the return receipt with this form. If the notice of hearing is served by
publication, keep the publisher’s affidavit of publication with this form.
2.   If the whereabouts of the owner are unknown, publication should not be
undertaken until the Building Inspector has executed an affidavit to that
effect (see
Form #11).
(Prior Code, Ch. 23, Appendix)
CHAPTER 151:  PROPERTY NUMBERING
Section
   
151.01   Numbering map
   
151.02   Numbering system
   
151.03   Owners to display numbers
   
151.04   Numbers for future buildings
   
151.05   Unlawful to deface number
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  NUMBERING MAP.
   The property numbering map, entitled “Property Numbering Map, dated February
1, 1985, Town of Conway, N.C.” is hereby adopted as the official property
numbering map of the town, and all property numbers assigned shall be assigned
in accordance with the numbering map, and no other property numbers shall be
used or displayed in the town, except numbers assigned in accordance with
official numbering map. The property numbering map shall be kept on file in the
office of the Town Clerk.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1985)
§ 151.02  NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   On the property numbering map, Church Street is hereby designated as
the north-south axis, and Main Street is hereby designated as the east-west
axis and all avenues, streets and roads running generally north and south shall
be numbered from the east-west axis consecutively to the corporate limits of
the extremity of that avenue, street or road.
      (1)   Avenues, streets or roads running generally east and west shall be
numbered from the north-south axis in the same manner.
      (2)   Wherever possible, 100 numbers shall be allowed to each block.
   (B)   One whole number shall be assigned for every 25 feet of ground areas,
where practical, whether improved property or vacant property on every street
within the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   Odd numbers shall be assigned to the west side of the street on all
north-south streets and even numbers on the east side. On east-west streets,
odd numbers shall be assigned to the south side of the street and even numbers
to the north side.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1985)
§ 151.03  OWNERS TO DISPLAY NUMBERS.
   (A)   All owners of residential or commercial improved property which have
not displayed their assigned number as of the date of the adoption of this
amendment, shall display its assigned number immediately in accordance with
this amendment.
   (B)   All owners of residential or commercial property nor previously
assigned a number shall display its assigned number within 15 days of the
assignment.
   (C)   Numbers for residential property owners shall be four inches in
height, and numbers for commercial property owners shall be six inches in
height, rather than three inches in height, as previously ordained by
amendments to this section.
   (D)   Numbers shall be placed near the front entrance, preferably in a
lighted areas of the dwelling or place of business so that the number is
visible from the street.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1985; Ord. passed 3-5-2001)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04  NUMBERS FOR FUTURE BUILDINGS.
   All residence and business buildings erected after the adoption of this
chapter shall be assigned a number in accordance with the property numbering
map and shall display that number as provided in §
151.03 above within 30 days after the new residence or business building is
occupied.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1985)
§ 151.05  UNLAWFUL TO DEFACE NUMBER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface or take down any
number placed on any property in accordance with this section, except for
repair or replacement of the number.
   (B)   Anyone who alters, defaces or takes down any number except for repair
or replacement shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1985)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Failure to display the number assigned to each building shall be punishable
by a $5 civil penalty to be paid within five calender days being notified by
town officials of noncompliance. Violations shall be deemed a continuing
offense.
(Ord. passed 6-3-1985)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Authorization, findings and purpose
   
152.02   Objectives
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.05   Basis for establishing the special flood hazard areas
   
152.06   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
152.07   Compliance
   
152.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.09   Interpretation
   
152.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.20   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.21   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
152.22   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.23   Corrective procedures
   
152.24   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.35   General standards
   
152.36   Specific standards
   
152.37   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
152.38   Riverine floodplains with BFE, but without established floodways or
non-encroachment areas
   
152.39   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
152.40   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
Legal Status Provisions
   
152.50   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention provisions
   
152.51   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization.
      (1)   Municipal: the legislature of the state has in G.S. §§ 143-6-21,
160A-19-3, 160A-19-5, 160A-19-8 and 160A-8, delegated to local governmental
units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   County: the legislature of the state has in G.S. §§ 143-6-21,
delegated to local governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare. Therefore,
the Town Board of Commissioners does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood prone areas within the jurisdiction of town are subject
to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities
and by the occupancy in flood prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other
hazards.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions within flood prone areas by provisions designed
to:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and all other development that
may increase erosion or flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.02  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets and bridges)
that are located in flood prone areas;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood prone areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE).  A structure located on the
same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING).  An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated Zone AO on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from one to
three feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the flood insurance study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a “special flood hazard area”, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state or other source using FEMA
approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING.  See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY.  A building, portion of a building or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DISPOSAL.  As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings or columns.
   ENCROACHMENT.  The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.  A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before the initial effective date of the floodplain management
regulations adopted by the community.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM).  An official map of a community,
issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which the special flood
hazard areas and the floodways are delineated. This official map is a
supplement to and shall be used in conjunction with the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the special
flood hazard areas have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE.  The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, on which both the special flood hazard
areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community are delineated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  An examination, evaluation and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones and other flood data in a community issued by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes
flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs) and flood boundary and floodway maps (FBFMs),
if published.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA.  See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE.  A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map or
flood insurance rate map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN.  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.  The individual appointed to administer and
enforce the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.  Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  This chapter and other zoning
ordinances, subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations,
special purpose ordinances and other applications of police power. This term
describes federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof,
which provide standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING.  Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD.  The height added to the base flood elevation (BFE) to account
for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater
that the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions,
such as wave action, blockage of bridge openings, and the hydrological effect
of urbanization of the watershed. The base flood elevation plus the FREEBOARD
establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY.  A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY.  As defined in G.S. § 130A-9, a
facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment, recycling,
recovery or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG).  The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a “Certified Local Government (CLG) Program”; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a “Certified Local Government
(CLG) Program”.
      (2)   Certified Local Government (CLG) Programs are approved by the U.S.
Department of the Interior in cooperation with the State Department of Cultural
Resources through the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the
requirements of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966, as amended in
1980.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG).  The elevation of the ground, sidewalk or patio
slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion of the
building.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  Lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE.  The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on he lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL.  The National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) as corrected in
1929, the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) as corrected in 1988, or other
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain, to which base flood elevations (BFEs) shown on a FIRM
are referenced. Refer to each FIRM panel to determine datum used.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of the initial floodplain management
regulations and includes any subsequent improvements to those structures.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot
as designated in the flood insurance study report.
   POST-FIRM.  Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map.
   PRE-FIRM.  Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before the effective date of the initial flood insurance
rate map.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND.  That at least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE.  Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV).  A vehicle, which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REFERENCE LEVEL.  The top of the lowest floor for structures within special
flood hazard areas designated as Zone A1-A30, AE, A, A99 or AO.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.  The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard. In “special flood hazard areas” where base flood elevations (BFEs)
have been determined, this elevation shall be the BFE plus one foot of
freeboard. In “special flood hazard areas” where no BFE has been established,
this elevation shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION.  To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the
ordinance or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SALVAGE YARD.  Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY.  Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE.  As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill or any
other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).  The land in the floodplain subject to a
1% or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
152.05 of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement
was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of the building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home or a gas,
liquid or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during
any one-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to it’s before
damaged condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the
structure before the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any combination of repairs, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a structure, taking place during any one-year
period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure before the “start of construction” of the improvement.
      (2)   This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
         (a)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community
health, sanitary or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in §§
152.20 through
152.24 and §§
152.35 through
152.40 is presumed to be in VIOLATION until a time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE).  The height, in relation to mean sea level,
of floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal
or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE.  A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.04  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas within the
jurisdiction, including extraterritorial jurisdictions (ETJs) if applicable, of
town and within the jurisdiction of any other community whose governing body
agrees, by resolution, to the applicability.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.05  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the
cooperating technical state (CTS) agreement between the state and FEMA in its
flood insurance study (FIS) and its accompanying flood insurance rate maps
(FIRM), for the county, dated February 4, 2009, which are adopted by reference
and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The initial flood insurance rate maps are as follows for the
jurisdictional areas at the initial date: Northampton County Unincorporated
Area, dated 1-4-1988.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.06  ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities within special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.05 above.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.07  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.08  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.09  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.10  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard
areas or uses permitted within those areas will be free from flooding or flood
damages.
   (C)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of town or by any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.20  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain
Administrator”, is hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.21  FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. The following items shall
be presented to the Floodplain Administrator to apply for a floodplain
development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain
development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of the special flood hazard area as delineated on
the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.05, or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s) designation of the proposed development area as
determined on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §
152.05;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
152.05;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) where provided as set forth in §§
152.05,
152.22 or
152.37; and
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development within a
special flood hazard area including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the proposed
reference level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure in Zone AE, A or AO will be flood-proofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any proposed
utility systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 81-65)
with supporting data and an operational plan that includes, but is not limited
to, installation, exercise and maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls); and
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
152.36(D)(3) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AO, AE
and A1-30.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
152.36(F) and (G) of this chapter are met; and
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including an engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A description of the development to be permitted under the
floodplain development permit;
      (2)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
152.05;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway or non-encroachment area of any watercourse, as
applicable; and
      (7)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AO, AE or A1-30.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates:
         (a)   An elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is required prior to
the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit
holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the
elevation of the reference level, in relation to mean sea level. The Floodplain
Administrator shall review the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies
detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit holder prior to the
beginning of construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit.
         (b)   A final as-built elevation certificate (FEMA Form 81-31) is
required after construction is completed and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference level and all attendant
utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by the review shall be corrected by the permit
holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance.
In some instances, another certification may be required to certify corrected
as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make
required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate
of compliance/occupancy.
      (2)   Flood proofing certificate: non-residential floodproofing is used
to meet the regulatory flood protection elevation requirements, a floodproofing
certificate (FEMA Form 81-65), with supporting data, an operational plan, and
an inspection and maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of
any new construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
mean sea level. Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the
direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by
same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the
operational plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies
detected by the review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit
approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required
corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to
construct in accordance with the certified design shall be cause to withhold
the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30 and
the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in height above grade, an
engineered foundation certification is required in accordance with the
provisions of §
152.36(C)(2).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer’s
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions: the following structures, if located
within Zone A, AO, AE or A1-30, are exempt from the elevation/floodproofing
certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2) above.
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
152.36(F)(1);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
152.36(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures less than 150 square feet meeting
requirements of §
152.36(H).
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.22  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to
assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been received;
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Crime Control
and Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of the notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of the watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
152.39 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the
reference level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with §
152.21(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which all
new and substantially improved structures and utilities have been floodproofed,
in accordance with the provisions of §
152.21(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
152.21(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.21(C) and §
152.36(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, floodways or non-encroachment areas (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person
contesting the location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity
to appeal the interpretation as provided in this subchapter;
   (K)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with §
152.05, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood elevation (BFE)
data, along with floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a
federal, state or other source, including data developed pursuant to §
152.37(B)(2) in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway or
non-encroachment area data has been provided in accordance with §
152.05, obtain, review and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state or other source in order
to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that the information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended;
   (N)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (O)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (P)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (Q)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard areas
within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator and each
member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (R)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
152.23;
   (S)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (T)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to, the
FIS report, FIRM and other official flood maps and studies adopted in
accordance with §
152.05, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change, issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs; and
   (U)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-F) and letters of map revision (LOMR).
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.23  CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in the
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action.
      (1)   If, upon a hearing held pursuant to the notice prescribed above,
the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the building or development is in
violation of this chapter, they shall issue an order in writing to the owner,
requiring the owner to remedy the violation within a specified time period, not
less than 60 calendar days, nor more than 180 calendar days.
      (2)   Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is imminent
danger to life or other property, they may order that corrective action be
taken in a lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice of
appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days
following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order
of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall
hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm, or
revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished at the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.24  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment as established by town, hereinafter referred
to as the “Appeal Board”, shall hear and decide requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the appeal board may appeal
the decision to the court, as provided in G.S. Chapter 7A.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for;
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
152.03, provided provisions of §
152.24(I)(2), (3) and (5) have been satisfied, and the facilities are protected
by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; and
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the appeal board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
152.03 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach the conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that the construction below
the base flood elevation increases risks to life and property, and that the
issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base flood elevation
will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100
of insurance coverage. The notification shall be maintained with a record of
all variance actions, including justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency and
the state upon request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances:
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the regulatory flood protection elevation;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws; and
      (5)   The town has notified the Secretary of the State Department of
Crime Control and Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least
30 calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.35  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding to the regulatory flood protection elevation. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
duct work, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, hot water
heaters and electric outlets/switches.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure,
which is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter, shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area or
stream setback, and provided that the repair, reconstruction or replacement
meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (J)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
152.24(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the regulatory
flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
152.21(C).
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (N)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334.
   (O)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (P)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation shall apply.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.36  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all special flood hazard areas where base flood elevation (BFE) data has
been provided, as set forth in §
152.05, or §
152.37, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
152.35 above, are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.03 above.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.03. Structures located in A, AE, AO and A1-30 zones may be floodproofed to
the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation provided that
all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO zones, the floodproofing elevation
shall be in accordance with §
152.40(B). A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. The certification shall be
provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
152.21(C), along with the operational and maintenance plans.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
152.03 above.
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State Regulations for Manufactured Homes, adopted by the
Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15. Additionally, when the
elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36 inches or less above
the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by reinforced piers or
engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is above 36 inches in
height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
152.36(D) above.
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. Fully enclosed area, of new construction and
substantially improved structures, which is below the lowest floor:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of the enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (3)   Shall include, in Zones A, AO, AE and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of flood waters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (c)   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow flood waters to automatically enter and
exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of flood waters
in both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
   (E)   Additions/improvements.
      (1)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any more
nonconforming than the existing structure.
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (2)   Additions to post-FIRM structures with no modifications to the
existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall require
only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
      (3)   Additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
         (a)   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or improvements
only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
         (b)   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities, and has no permanently attached additions); or
      (2)   Meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary nonresidential structures.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit for a
temporary structure, the applicant must submit to the Floodplain Administrator
a plan for the removal of the structure(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash
flood or other type of flood warning notification.
      (2)   The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed three months, renewable up to one
year;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures.
      (1)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
are to be placed within a special flood hazard area, the following criteria
shall be met:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
         (b)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of flood
waters;
         (e)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
152.35(A);
         (f)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
152.35(D); and
         (g)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection
elevation in conformance with the provisions of §
152.36(D)(3).
      (2)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 150 square feet
that satisfies the criteria outlined above does not require an elevation or
floodproofing certificate. Elevation or floodproofing certifications are
required for all other accessory structures in accordance with §
152.21(C).
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.37  STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
152.05, where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by FEMA, the
following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
152.35 above, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or five times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within those areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in §§
152.35 and
152.36.
      (2)   When floodway data is available from a federal, state or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of §§
152.36 and
152.39.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide base flood elevation (BFE) data if development is
greater than five acres or has more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. The
base flood elevation (BFE) data shall be adopted by reference in accordance
with §
152.05 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the reference level shall be
elevated or flood proofed (nonresidential) to or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation, as defined in §
152.03. All other applicable provisions of §
152.36 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.38  RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE, BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED FLOODWAYS OR
NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within those areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
152.35 and
152.36; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point within the
community.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.39  FLOODWAYS AND NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   (A)   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located
within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.05 above.
   (B)   The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of flood waters that have erosion potential and carry
debris and potential projectiles.
   (C)   The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in §§
152.35 and
152.36 above, shall apply to all development within those areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained upon completion
of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (C)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted, except replacement
manufactured homes in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision,
provided the following provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
152.36(C) above; and
         (b)   The no encroachment standard of division (C)(1) above.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.40  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   (A)   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
152.05 above, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas.
   (B)   These areas have special flood hazards associated with base flood
depths of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not exist and
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate.
   (C)   In addition to §§
152.35 and
152.36, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements.
      (1)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in 32 feet, plus a
freeboard of one foot, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least four feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (C)(1) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with §
152.21(C) and §
152.36(B).
      (3)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 152.50  EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING FLOOD DAMAGE
PREVENTION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the
provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted July 15, 1987 as
amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and
continue to enforce without interruption of the existing provisions, so that
all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be
enforced.
   (B)   The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or
proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention
ordinance of town enacted on July 15, 1987, as amended, which are not reenacted
herein, are repealed.
   (C)   The date of the initial flood damage prevention ordinance for the
unincorporated areas of the county is January 4, 1988.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.51  EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size or designated use of any development or any part thereof for
which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under the
outstanding permit within a period of six months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $50
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 2-3-2009)
CHAPTER 153:  ROAD NAMING
Section
   
153.01   Road naming and numbering criteria
   
153.02   Public road names
   
153.03   Naming private roads
   
153.04   New road names
   
153.05   Desirable names
   
153.06   Deceptively similar names or undesirable names
   
153.07   Suffixes
§ 153.01  ROAD NAMING AND NUMBERING CRITERIA.
   All roads, both public and private, shall be named and have road name signs
installed. All houses, buildings, and structures shall be numbered in
accordance with
Chapter 151.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2016)
§ 153.02  PUBLIC ROAD NAMES.
   Public street and road names shall be established by the Town Board of
Commissioners, as has been the practice for years.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2016)
§ 153.03  NAMING PRIVATE ROADS.
   When an unnamed private road is detected, the Town Administrator will assign
a temporary designation to the road, and then mail a road-naming petition to
the predominant property owner and a notice of this action to all adjoining
property owners. The notice shall identify the road section to be named, a
suggested name if practicable, allow 14 days for the return of the petition
with a majority of the property owners agreeing to the name or a substitute
name. After the allotted time, and whether the petition is returned or not, the
Town Board will name the road and direct that notice of the new name be sent to
the property owners listed in the original petition.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2016)
§ 153.04  NEW ROAD NAMES.
   New road names that relate to the history, location, or name of a project
area or vicinity, shall be given consideration.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2016)
§ 153.05  DESIRABLE NAMES.
   Road names that are pleasant sounding, appropriate, easy to read, and add
pride to home ownership, shall be promoted.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2016)
§ 153.06  DECEPTIVELY SIMILAR NAMES OR UNDESIRABLE NAMES.
   The Town Administrator shall maintain a data base or map of existing road
names, so that duplicate or "deceptively similar" road names are neither
approved nor assigned. The following kinds of names shall be avoided:
numerical, alphabetical, similar in nature, and complicated names. The Town
Board shall refuse to accept any suggested road name which in its opinion
violates the spirit or the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2016)
§ 153.07  SUFFIXES.
   (A)   The following road name suffixes are allowed: Avenue (AVE), Boulevard
(BLVD), Circle (CIR), Court (CT), Drive (DR), Highway (HWY), Lane (LN), Loop
(LP), Parkway (PKWY), Place (PL), Road (RD), Street (ST), Trail (TRL), and Way.
   (B)   Private roads shall be assigned the suffixes Trail, Lane or Way. All
other suffixes shall be reserved for public streets and roads.
(Ord. passed 10-4-2016)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      12-7-1964   Grants franchise to Virginia Electric and Power Company
–      6-2-1986    Grants to Virginia Electric and Power company a franchise
–      11-2-1987   Amends Ord. 14-2, concerning franchise fee provisions
14-2     12-7-1998   Grant cable service franchise
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Reference Code Section
G.S. Reference            Code Section
1-593                     10.05
7A                        152.24
Ch. 7B                    97.03
                          31.99;
                          70.99;
                          91.05;
14-4                      95.99;
                          150.41;
                          150.99;
                          151.05
14-4(a)                   10.99
14-202.10                 111.02
14-288.1                  97.03
14-288.4                  134.01;
                          134.02
14-288.8(c)               31.06
14-316                    132.33
14-316.1                  97.03
20-4.01                   134.03
20-219.11                 95.10
44A, Article 1            95.12
90, Article 5             134.03;
                          134.99
113-60.31                 91.09
113-127 et seq.           132.32
130A-9                    152.03
130A-290(a)(6)            152.03
130A-290(a)(35)           152.03
130A-290(a)(36)           152.03
136-143                   95.15
143-6-21                  152.01
143-143.15                152.36
159-7 et seq.             34.01
160A                      52.09;
                          150.99
160A-8                    152.01
160A-11                   30.01
160A-12                   30.01
160A-19-3                 152.01
160A-19-5                 152.01
160A-19-8                 152.01
160A, Article 10          Ch. 150, App. A
160A-148                  33.01
160A-171                  33.02
                          10.99;
160A-175                  70.99;
                          96.99
160A-184                  Ch. 96
160A-193                  91.05
160A-216—160A-238       150.40
160A-341 through 160A-348 Ch. 94
160A-441                  150.01
160A-441 through 160A-450 150.01
160A-443                  150.37;
                          Ch. 150, App. A
160A-443(5)               150.39;
                          Ch. 150, App. A
160A-443(6)               150.40
160A-444                  150.01
160A-445                  Ch. 150, App. A
160A-446(f)               150.37
160A-446(g)               150.37;
                          Ch. 150, App. A
164-7                     10.14
166A-8                    31.01
                          
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2012 Code
Prior Code       2012 Code
1-1              90.01
1-2              90.02
1-3              90.03
1-4              90.04
1-5              90.05
1-6              90.06
2-1              71.01;
                 71.99
2-2              71.02;
                 71.99
2-3              71.03;
                 71.99
2-4              71.04;
                 71.99
2-5              Ch. 73, Sch. I
2-6              Ch. 73, Sch. I
Ch. 3            Ch. 72, Sch. I
4-1              130.01;
                 130.99
4-2              130.02;
                 130.99
4-3              130.03;
                 130.99
4-4              130.04;
                 130.99
4-5              130.05;
                 130.99
4-6              130.06;
                 130.99
5-1              131.01;
                 131.99
5-2              131.02;
                 131.99
5-3              131.03;
                 131.99
5-4              131.04;
                 131.99
7-1              91.01;
                 91.99
7-2              91.02;
                 91.99
7-4              91.03;
                 91.99
7-5              91.04
7-8              91.06;
                 91.99
7-9              91.07
7-11             91.08;
                 91.99
8-1              110.01
8-2              110.02
8-3              110.03
8-6              110.04
8-8              110.05;
                 110.99
9-1              132.01;
                 132.99
9-2              132.30;
                 132.99
9-19             110.06;
                 110.99
17-1             92.01
23.01            150.01
23.02            150.02
23.03            150.03
23.10            150.15
23.11            150.16
23.12            150.17
23.13            150.18
23.14            150.19
23.15            150.20
23.16            150.21
23.35            150.35
23.36            150.36
23.37            150.37
23.38            150.38
23.39            150.39
23.40            150.40
23.41            150.41
23.42            150.42
23.43            150.43
23.99            150.99
Ch. 23, Appendix Ch. 150, App. A
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     130.01—
                     130.05;
                     130.99;
-        12-7-1964   131.01—
                     131.04;
                     131.99;
                     132.01;
                     132.99
-        12-7-1964   TSO, Table I
-        12-28-1967  91.03;
                     91.99
-        2-14-1973   110.07
-        5-6-1974    91.08
-        7-23-1974   150.35;
                     150.42
-        4-7-1975    90.06
-        10-4-1976   132.30;
                     132.99
                     52.01—
-        8-15-1984   52.09;
                     52.99
-        8-15-1984   53.01;
                     53.02
                     151.01—
-        6-3-1985    151.05;
                     151.99
                     51.01;
                     51.02;
-        10-7-1985   51.04;
                     51.05;
                     51.07;
                     51.99
-        10-7-1985   93.01;
                     93.99
-        6-2-1986    TSO, Table I
-        3-2-1987    51.03;
                     51.06
-        11-2-1987   TSO, Table I
                     51.08;
-        6-4-1990    51.09;
                     51.99
                     31.01—
-        7-2-1990    31.13;
                     31.99
-        7-19-1994   130.06;
                     130.99
-        6-1-1998    50.01
14-2     12-7-1998   TSO, Table I
-        3-5-2001    Ch. 73, Sch. I
-        3-5-2001    151.03
-        11-5-2001   91.05;
                     91.99
                     111.01—
-        2-4-2002    111.23;
                     Ch. 111, App. A
-        7-8-2002    94.01—
                     94.18
-        10-7-2002   94.04
-        7-1-2003    51.03;
                     51.04
                     96.01—
-        1-5-2004    96.03;
                     96.99
-        2-2-2004    93.15—
                     93.25
-        7-12-2004   53.01
-        12-6-2004   50.01
-        3-7-2005    93.18
                     70.01—
-        9-6-2005    70.13;
                     70.99;
                     Ch. 72, Sch. I
-        11-17-2005  51.04
-        11-17-2005  53.02
-        3-6-2006    92.02;
                     92.99
-        6-4-2007    96.03
-        7-2-2007    30.01
-        11-5-2007   96.02
-        6-3-2008    91.09
                     95.01—
-        2-3-2009    95.15;
                     95.99
                     152.01—
                     152.10;
                     152.20—
                     152.24;
-        2-3-2009    152.35—
                     152.40;
                     152.50;
                     152.51;
                     152.99
-        4-3-2012    92.11;
                     92.99
-        7-1-2014    50.01;
                     50.02
-        7-1-2014    132.31;
                     132.32
                     92.01—
-        8-5-2014    92.09;
                     92.11;
                     92.99
-        12-1-2015   92.10
-        12-1-2015   94.06
-        8-4-2015    97.01—
                     97.03
-        10-4-2016   153.01—
                     153.07
-        - -         51.98
-        - -         52.98
-        - -         53.98
-        4-4-2017    94.08
94       9-5-2017    94.08;
                     94.11
                     51.03;
-        - -         51.04;
                     53.01;
                     53.02
                    
 
 
