COOLEEMEE, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. passed March 16, 2020
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; computing time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effected date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The provisions embraced in this and the following chapters and sections
shall constitute and be designated the “Code of Ordinances, Town of Cooleemee,
North Carolina,” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD. The Town Board of the town, unless otherwise specified.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the town.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Davie County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words giving a JOINT AUTHORITY to three or more
persons or officers shall be construed as giving that authority to a majority
of those persons or officers.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Town of Cooleemee, North
Carolina.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an OATH, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER,   OFFICE,   EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer,
office, employee, commission, or department of this municipality, unless the
context clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of that property.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers, or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge, and the approaches thereto
within the town, and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of that building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      TOWN. The Town of Cooleemee, North Carolina.
      TOWN BOARD or BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the Town of
Cooleemee, North Carolina.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this town shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
AND/OR, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, that
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine and
feminine gender shall be deemed to include neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; and the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future,
if applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was dearly
intended to express the intent, that spelling shall be corrected and that word
or those words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; COMPUTING TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTED DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, section, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, section, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code which amend, repeal, or
in any way affect this code may be numbered in accordance with the numbering
system hereof and printed for inclusion herein. When subsequent ordinances
repeal any chapter, section, or division, or any portion thereof, such repealed
portions may be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances numbered or
omitted are readopted as a new code by the town.
   (B)   Amendments to any of the provisions of the code shall be made by
amending such provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in language substantially similar to the following: “Section _________ of
the Code of Ordinances, Town of Cooleemee, North Carolina, is hereby amended as
follows ...” The new provisions shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (C)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
language substantially similar to the following shall be used: “The Code of
Ordinances, Town of Cooleemee, North Carolina, is hereby amended by adding a
section, to be numbered _______, which section shall read as follows: ...” The
new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters, or provisions desired to be
repealed must be specifically repealed by division, section, or chapter number,
as the case may be.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985).
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
(G.S. § 160A-11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see G.S. §§ 139-1 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, each violation of this code or any
other town ordinance shall constitute a misdemeanor, except as otherwise
provided by statute, and violations of such provisions of any town ordinance
shall be punished by fine or imprisonment as provided by law. Each day any
violation of any town ordinance shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense, except as may be specifically provided.
   (B)   Violations of any town ordinance shall constitute either a misdemeanor
or, at the election of the town, shall subject the offender to a civil penalty
upon the issuance of a citation for the violation as hereinafter provided. The
civil penalty, if not paid to the town within 15 days of the issuance of a
citation. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued. Unless
otherwise provided by a specific provision of any town ordinance, civil
penalties shall be in the amount of $50 for each violation and each day any
single violation continues shall be a separate violation.
   (C)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of any
town ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from
a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it
shall not be a defense to the application of the town for equitable relief that
there is an adequate remedy at law.
   (D)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of any
town ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of
real property may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
general court of justice. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the town
may apply to the appropriate division of the general court of justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65 is particular.
   (E)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures on
the property be closed, demolished, or removed; that futures, furniture, or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the applicable town
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt and the town may execute the order of abatement. The town
shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic’s and materialman’s lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant’s full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judicial order. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
   (F)   The provisions of any town ordinance may be enforced by one, all, or a
combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
   (G)   Any ordinances hereafter adopted by the Board of Commissioners of the
town, the violation of which shall incur a penalty, shall specify whether the
enforcement shall be pursuant to the civil penalty and/or criminal penal
provisions of this section.
   (H)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of any town
ordinance, the penalty for which is a civil penalty, the enforcement official
of the town shall cause a warning citation to be issued to the violator. Such
warning citation shall set out the nature of the violation, the section
violated, the date of the violation, and shall contain an order to immediately
cease the violation. If the violation is in the nature of an infraction for
which an order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil proceeding, a
reasonable period of time must be stated in which the violation must be abated.
The warning citation shall specify that a second citation shall incur a civil
penalty, together with costs, and attorney fees.
   (I)   An appeal from a warning citation shall be taken within ten days from
the date of the warning citation to the Board of Adjustment. Except in any case
where the ordinance violated, which is the subject of the warning citation,
specifically grants to the Board of Adjustment other powers in considering
appeals and such appeal is applied for, the Board of Adjustment in considering
appeals of warning citations shall have power only in the manner of
administrative review and interpretation where it is alleged that the
enforcement official has made an error in the application of an ordinance, in
the factual situation as it relates to the application of an ordinance or both.
   (J)   Where the enforcement official of the town determines that the period
of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for abatement
based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement official may
amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
   (K)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation shall be issued by the enforcement official of the town and either
served directly on the violator, his or her duly designated agent, or
registered agent if a corporation, either in person or posted in the United
States mail service by first class mail addressed to the last known address of
the violator as contained in the records of the county or obtained from the
violator at the base of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be
deemed to have been served upon the mailing of the citation. The citation shall
direct the violator to appear before the Town Clerk, or designee, within 15
days of the date of the citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by mail.
The violation for which the citation is issued must have been corrected by the
time the citation is paid, otherwise further citations shall be issued.
Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues until the prohibited
activity is ceased or abated.
   (L)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 15 days of its
issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the town may institute a
civil action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the state
general court of justice for the collection of the penalty, costs, attorney
fees, and such other relief as permitted by law.
   (M)   The existing ordinances of the town, a violation of which shall
subject the offender to civil penalties and/or criminal penal provisions of
law, are as follows:
      (1)   Code of ordinances;
      (2)   Subdivision Ordinance; and
      (3)   Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.99) (Ord. passed 1-24-2006)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCES
      
34.   TOWN POLICIES
      
35.   TOWN EMERGENCIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Mayor and Board of Commissioners; powers and duties
   
30.02   Mayor Pro Tem; selection and duties
   
30.03   Power over employees
   
30.04   Committees
   
30.05   Compensation
Meetings; Rules of Procedure
   
30.20   Regular meetings
   
30.21   Special meetings
   
30.22   Adjourned meetings
   
30.23   Order of business
   
30.24   Rules of procedure
Ordinances and Resolutions
   
30.35   Procedure; publication
   
30.36   Effective date
   
30.37   Official copies
   
30.38   Ordinance book
   
30.39   Ordinances; addition to code
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A) The Mayor and Board of Commissioners shall be charged with the general
government and administration of the affairs of the town.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Town Board shall be as set out in the
general statutes of the state, the Town Charter, and the ordinances of the
town.
   (C)   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the town, and as
that officer, shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the town’s business;
      (2)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Commissioners;
      (3)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises, and all
other documents as authorized by the Town Board;
      (4)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the Town Board;
      (5)   Make recommendations to the Town Board concerning the affairs of
the town, as he or she deems necessary;
      (6)   Represent the town at ceremonies and other official occasions; and
      (7)   Perform other duties as authorized by the general statutes, the
Town Charter, and this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 30.01)
Statutory reference:
   Board to organize town government, see G.S. § 160A-146
   Duties of Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.02 MAYOR PRO TEM; SELECTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   At the first meeting after its election, the Board of Commissioners
shall select one of its number to act as Mayor Pro Tem.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro Tem shall have no fixed term of office, but in that
capacity shall perform all the duties of the Mayor in the Mayor’s absence or
disability.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tem, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.03 POWER OVER EMPLOYEES.
   The Town Board shall have the authority to generally organize and supervise
the employees of the town, including the power to:
   (A)   Prescribe rules. The Town Board may prescribe rules and regulations as
it shall deem necessary or expedient for the conduct of administrative
employees subject to its authority; and shall have the power to revoke,
suspend, or amend any rule or regulation;
   (B)   Investigate. Either by itself or any officer or person designated for
the purpose by it, the Town Board may investigate and examine or inquire into
the affairs or operation of any department, division, or employee; and shall
have the power to employ consultants and professional counsel to aid in
investigations, examinations, or inquiries;
   (C)   Overrule officials. The Town Board may set aside any action taken by a
town administrative official and may supersede him or her in the functions of
his or her office;
   (D)   Delegate duties. The Town Board may direct any official, department,
division, or employee to perform work for any other official, department,
division, or employee;
   (E)   Provide for administrative committees. The Town Board may designate
committees as it shall find necessary for the proper consideration of
administrative problems. The committees shall meet at the request of the Town
Board and shall make recommendations on matters referred to them as they shall
find necessary for the best interest of the town; and
   (F)   Summon employees. The Town Board may require any employee of the town
to appear before and report to the Town Board at any meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Town Board to adopt personnel regulations, see G.S. § 160A-164
   Authority to conduct investigations, see G.S. § 160A-80
§ 30.04 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees shall, unless otherwise ordered, be appointed by the Town
Board. All reports of committees shall be in writing, and committee members
shall receive that compensation for extra and special service as the Town Board
may designate.
   (B)   Each committee shall be held responsible for its respective department
or the special object for which it is appointed, and shall make those
recommendations to the Mayor and the Town Board as it deems advisable.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
§ 30.05 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of the Mayor and Town Board members shall be as provided in
the Annual Budget Ordinance, and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and Town Board, see G.S. § 160A-64
MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 30.20 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The regular meetings of the Town Board shall be held on the third Tuesday of
each month at 6:00 p.m. at the Town Hall, unless otherwise designated by the
Town Board. Every member of the Town Board and officer shall attend all
meetings of the Town Board, unless excused.
(Prior Code, § 30.15)
§ 30.21 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Town Board may be held according to the procedures
set out in the applicable general statutes.
(Prior Code, § 30.16)
Statutory reference:
   Special meetings, see G.S. § 160A-71
§ 30.22 ADJOURNED MEETINGS.
   Any meeting of the Town Board may be continued or adjourned from day to day,
or for more than one day, but no adjournment shall be for a longer period than
until the next regular meeting thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 30.17)
§ 30.23 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   At the hour appointed for the meeting of the Town Board, the Mayor
shall take the chair and direct a call of the members by the Town Clerk, who
shall note the absentees. If a quorum is not present, the Mayor shall send for
the absentees, and upon the appearance of a quorum shall call to order and
proceed with the order of business. If a quorum fails to attend, the meeting
shall stand adjourned to a time agreed upon by a majority of the members
present. The Mayor may, when present, substitute any member of the Town Board
to perform the duties of the chair, but substitution shall not extend beyond
adjournment, except by special consent of the Town Board.
   (B)   Unless the Town Board agrees in advance otherwise, the business of the
Town Board shall be taken up for consideration and disposition at regular
meetings in the following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Reading or disposition of minutes of the previous meeting;
      (3)   Reports of boards and standing committees;
      (4)   Reports of special committees;
      (5)   Unfinished business or old business;
      (6)   New business;
      (7)   Announcements and general discussions; and
      (8)   Adjournment.
   (C)   If the Town Board directs any matter to be the special business of a
future meeting, the matter shall have precedence over all other business at
that meeting.
(Prior Code, § 30.18)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see G.S. § 160A-74
   Voting, see G.S. § 160A-75
§ 30.24 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Agenda. All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract
documents, or other matters to be submitted to the Town Board should be
delivered or submitted to the Town Clerk prior to the meeting.
   (B)   Rules of debate and decorum.
      (1)   Manner of speaking. Every member desiring to speak shall address
the chair and upon recognition by the Mayor shall confine himself or herself to
the question under debate, avoiding all personalities and indecorous language.
      (2)   Interrupting the speaker. A member, once recognized, shall not be
interrupted when speaking, unless it is to call him or her to order or as
otherwise provided under applicable rules of parliamentary procedure. If a
member, while speaking, is called to order, he or she shall cease speaking
until the question of order is determined and, if in order, he or she shall be
permitted to proceed.
      (3)   Addressing the Town Board. Any person desiring to address the Town
Board shall first secure the permission of the Mayor. Any interested parties or
their authorized representatives may address the Town Board on matters listed
on the agenda of the Town Board. After a motion is before the Town Board, no
person shall address the Town Board without first securing the permission of
the Town Board to do so.
      (4)   Manner of addressing the Town Board; time limit. Every person
addressing the Town Board shall give his or her name and address for the
records, and unless special time is granted by the Town Board, shall limit his
or her remarks to three minutes. All remarks shall be addressed to the Town
Board as a body and not to any member thereof. No person, other than Town Board
members and the person having the floor, shall be permitted to enter into any
discussion either directly or through a member of the Town Board. No question
shall be asked of a member except through the Mayor.
      (5)   Request to have statement abstracted. A member may request from the
Mayor the privilege of having an abstract of his or her statement on any
subject under consideration by the Town Board entered in the minutes.
      (6)   Request to record synopsis of discussion in the minutes. The Town
Clerk may be directed by the Mayor, with consent of the Town Board, to enter in
the minutes a synopsis of the discussion on any question coming before the Town
Board.
      (7)   Voting; individual ballots. All elections by the Town Board shall
be made by individual ballot if required by any two members present.
      (8)   Questions of order. All questions of order shall be decided by the
Mayor without debate, subject to an appeal to the Town Board.
      (9)   Robert’s Rules of Order. When any point of procedure shall arise,
the latest revised edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall determine the
question of procedure.
(Prior Code, § 30.19)
ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS
§ 30.35 PROCEDURE; PUBLICATION.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance and every new ordinance
shall be proposed in writing and shall be approved as to form by the Town
Attorney. Ordinances shall have ordinance numbers and section captions.
(Prior Code, § 30.30)
§ 30.36 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall be effective after the ratification thereof, except
ordinances specifying some other effective date or ordinances required by state
law to be effective only after having met specific date requirements.
(Prior Code, § 30.31)
§ 30.37 OFFICIAL COPIES.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Town Board,
signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the Town Clerk, shall be known as an
official copy of that ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 30.32)
Statutory reference:
   Pleading and proving ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 30.38 ORDINANCE BOOK.
   The Town Clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance, until it is
codified in this code of ordinances, in an ordinance book separate and apart
from the Town Board’s minute book. The ordinance book shall be appropriately
indexed and maintained for public inspection in the office of the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 30.33)
Statutory reference:
   Ordinance book, see G.S. § 160A-78
§ 30.39 ORDINANCES; ADDITION TO CODE.
   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the code a new chapter,
subchapter, or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of
this code, the proper number of the chapter, section, or division.
(Prior Code, § 30.34)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Consolidation of offices
   
31.02   Employees serve at pleasure of Town Board
   
31.03   Conflict of interest
Town Officers
   
31.15   Town Clerk
   
31.16   Town Attorney
   
31.17   Finance Officer
Employee Regulations
   
31.30   Equal employment opportunity policy
   
31.31   Americans with Disabilities Act
   
31.32   Travel expenses
Cross-reference:
Cash Management and Investment Plan, see §§
33.15 through
33.21
Duties of Town Clerk as Purchasing Agent, see §
33.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 CONSOLIDATION OF OFFICES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, the Board of Commissioners may, in its
discretion, consolidate any two or more offices and assign the duties of those
offices to one or more persons.
(Prior Code, § 31.01)
§ 31.02 EMPLOYEES SERVE AT PLEASURE OF TOWN BOARD.
   All employees elected or appointed by the Town Board shall hold office at
the pleasure of the Town Board and may be removed at any time by the Town
Board.
(Prior Code, § 31.02)
§ 31.03 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No member of the Town Board shall be peculiarly interested, directly or
indirectly, in any contract made or entered into by the Town Board, nor in any
matter where the rights or liabilities of the town are, or may be, involved.
(Prior Code, § 31.03)
TOWN OFFICERS
§ 31.15 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   The Town Board shall appoint a Town Clerk.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Town Clerk to:
      (1)   Act as Secretary to the Town Board;
      (2)   Keep a true record of all of the proceedings of the Town Board;
      (3)   Keep the original of all ordinances in a book especially provided
for that purpose;
      (4)   Act as a custodian for all the books, papers, records, and journals
of the Town Board; and
      (5)   Perform other duties as may be required of him or her by law or by
the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 31.15)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Town Clerk, see G.S. § 160A-171
   Minutes, see G.S. § 160A-72
§ 31.16 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The Town Board shall appoint a Town Attorney.
   (B)   The duties of the Town Attorney shall be to:
      (1)   Prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or equity
to which the town may be a party, or in which it may be interested, or which
may be brought against, or by, any officer of the town, or in the capacity of
the person as an officer of the town;
      (2)   See to the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or
entered in favor of the town;
      (3)   See to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and
condemnation proceedings;
      (4)   Draft or review any contract, lease, or other document or
instrument to which the town may be a party, and approve all ordinances and
resolutions of the Town Board as to form;
      (5)   At the request of the Town Board, draft ordinances covering any
subjects within the power of the town;
      (6)   Attend meetings of the Town Board upon request; and
      (7)   Perform any other duties required of him or her by G.S. § 160A-173
and other laws and ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 31.16)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Town Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 31.17 FINANCE OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town Board shall provide for the appointment of a Finance Officer.
   (B)   The duties of the Finance Officer shall be to:
      (1)   Keep the books and accounts of the town;
      (2)   Receive and disburse all monies of the town as required by state
law;
      (3)   Countersign and pre-audit all checks, drafts, contracts, purchase
orders, or other documents obligating town funds;
      (4)   Report to the Town Board concerning the finances of the town, as
they may require;
      (5)   Maintain all records of the bonded debt of the town and maintain
sinking funds;
      (6)   Supervise the investment of idle funds; and
      (7)   Perform other duties assigned by the general statutes, the Town
Charter, or the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 31.17)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of Finance Officer, see G.S. § 159-25
   Fiscal control, see G.S. §§ 159-7 et seq.
EMPLOYEE REGULATIONS
§ 31.30 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY POLICY.
   The town is an equal employment opportunity employer and does not
discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, or national
origin in the hiring of employees or the payment of wages and salaries for
equal work on jobs requiring equal skill, effort, and responsibility.
(Prior Code, § 33.01)
§ 31.31 AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT.
   (A)   (1)   The town has completed a self- evaluation check and has reviewed
employment policies and practices.
      (2)   The town gives employees and applicants nondiscriminatory
treatment, and policies and practices do not limit, segregate, or classify job
applicants in ways that adversely affect their opportunities or status because
of their disability.
   (B)   The town is an equal employment opportunity employer and does not
discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin,
or disability.
   (C)   Nondiscriminatory treatment is being given to people with disabilities
that affords them full and equal enjoyment of the services, facilities,
privileges, and advantages that are afforded to other individuals.
   (D)   There are no architectural barriers or communication barriers in any
existing facilities, and all future construction will be readily accessible to
and usable by individuals with disabilities.
   (E)   All equal opportunity and nondiscriminatory policies are posted in
prominent places in all facilities.
(Prior Code, § 33.02)
§ 31.32 TRAVEL EXPENSES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to establish a uniform
procedure for requesting and reimbursing travel expenses.
   (B)   Payment of expenses.
      (1)   Transportation expenses.
         (a)   Town vehicles should be used for travel inside the state
whenever possible.
         (b)   Town vehicles may be used outside the state with the permission
of the Mayor.
         (c)   Reimbursement for the use of private cars will be at the rate
per mile set by the Board of Commissioners.
      (2)   Lodging. The town will pay the actual cost of lodging for the
employee only.
      (3)   Meals. Reasonable actual cost of meals will be reimbursed whenever
travel requires the employee to be out of town for a full eight hours or meals
are an official part of a scheduled program.
      (4)   Registration fees. The town will reimburse the employee actual
costs of all registration fees and workshop materials.
      (5)   Other expenses. Reimbursement will be made for parking fees and
long distance phone calls made to transact town business.
   (C)   Procedures for reimbursement approval.
      (1)   (a)   No later than three days after an employee returns, the
employee will submit to the department head a travel expense voucher form
accounting for all travel expenses.
         (b)   Receipts must be submitted for all expenses.
         (c)   After review of the expense voucher, the department head shall
forward the approved copy and receipts to the Town Clerk.
      (2)   Checks will be issued for travel reimbursement at the same time all
other checks are prepared each month; per the Cash Management Plan, checks
should be prepared biweekly as discussed in §
33.20.
(Prior Code, § 33.03)
CHAPTER 32: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Departments enumerated
Police Department
   
32.15   Department established; composition
   
32.16   Duties of police officers
   
32.17   Hiring and discharge of personnel
   
32.18   Conditions of employment; requirements
   
32.19   Police Chief; powers and duties
   
32.20   Mutual aid assistance
   
32.21   Auxiliary police division
Volunteer Fire Department
   
32.35   Department established
   
32.36   Rules and regulations
   
32.37   Enforcement
Planning Committee
   
32.50   Establishment
   
32.51   Composition; vacancies
   
32.52   Organization
   
32.53   Expenditures; incurring debt; donations
   
32.54   Powers and duties
   
32.55   Zoning amendments
   
32.56   Subdivision regulations
   
32.57   Miscellaneous powers and duties
   
32.58   Planning Board; Board of Adjustment
   
32.59   Conflicts and validity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 DEPARTMENTS ENUMERATED.
   The administrative organization of the town shall be divided into the
following departments:
   (A)   Police Department; and
   (B)   Volunteer Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.01)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.15 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Police Department is hereby created subject to the terms,
authority, and conditions set out herein.
   (B)   The Police Department shall consist of a Police Chief and officers,
patrol officers, and police officers of designated grades as the Town Board
deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 32.15)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal law enforcement, see G.S. §§ 160A-281 et seq.
§ 32.16 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Chief and the members of the Police Department shall have
the duty of enforcing all the ordinances of the town and the laws of this state
within the town, and other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of each member of the Police Department, upon
information furnished him or her, or upon his or her knowledge of any violation
of the ordinances of the town or of the laws of this state, to secure proper
warrants for the arrest and trial of any and all offenders against any
ordinances or laws.
(Prior Code, § 32.16)
§ 32.17 HIRING AND DISCHARGE OF PERSONNEL.
   The Town Board shall have the duty of hiring persons as may be necessary to
man the Police Department and to provide the town with adequate police
protection, together with the duty of discharging Police Department members.
(Prior Code, § 32.17)
§ 32.18 CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Conditions.
      (1)   Members of the Police Department shall be appointed by the Town
Board after due examination by the Town Board, and based upon the results of
the examination.
      (2)   An appointee shall serve six months’ probation.
   (B)   Requirements. Every person appointed as a law enforcement officer
shall:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States;
      (2)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (3)   Be of good moral character;
      (4)   Be fingerprinted and a search made of local, state, and federal
fingerprint files;
      (5)   Not have been convicted of a felony or an offense involving moral
turpitude;
      (6)   Have a high school diploma or its equivalent;
      (7)   Pass an examination conducted by a physician accepted or designated
by the town;
      (8)   Be interviewed and approved by the Town Board or its designee;
      (9)   Pass a pre-emptive drug test;
      (10)   Pass any test required for state certification; and
      (11)   Be certified in accordance with state law.
(Prior Code, § 32.18)
Statutory reference:
   Local law enforcement officers; state certification, see G.S. §§ 17C-1 et
seq.
§ 32.19 POLICE CHIEF; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General supervision of the Town Board. The Police Chief, subject to
the general supervision of the Town Board, is held responsible for the
discipline, good order, and proper conduct of the Police Department.
   (B)   Specific duties.
      (1)   The Police Chief shall command the Police Department under his or
her order, and is responsible for its discipline and efficiency. Further, the
Police Chief shall recommend to the Town Board the reforms and changes in the
Police Department which practical experience shows should be instituted.
Periodically, the Police Chief may be required to submit a statement of conduct
of the affairs of the Police Department, and shall include therein any
suggestions for improvement in the service or personnel of the Police
Department.
      (2)   Additional, specific functions of the Police Chief are to:
         (a)   Issue to the Police Department under his or her command those
orders and directives as may be necessary to preserve the public peace, prevent
crime, arrest offenders, and protect public and private property and persons in
the town;
         (b)   Enforce the laws, ordinances, police regulations, and executive
orders applicable to his or her jurisdiction;
         (c)   Suspend from duty any members of the Police Department for
incompetence, neglect of duty, immorality, drunkenness, drinking intoxicants
when on duty, or who shall be found unfit for duty when called on emergency
service, or who fail to obey orders given by proper authority, and in addition
for any just or reasonable cause in the judgment of the Town Board; and
         (d)   Require the proper submission and handling of the necessary and
required reports.
(Prior Code, § 32.19)
§ 32.20 MUTUAL AID ASSISTANCE.
   (A)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to enter into mutual assistance
arrangements with other municipal and county enforcement agencies provided that
the head of the requesting law enforcement agency requests assistance in
writing.
   (B)   The Police Chief is hereby authorized to permit officers of the Police
Department to work temporarily with officers of the requesting agencies
including in an undercover capacity, and to this extent may lend equipment and
supplies.
   (C)   While working with the requesting agency, a police officer shall have
the same jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges, and immunities as the
officers of the requesting agency.
   (D)   The Police Chief is hereby further authorized to request mutual aid
assistance from other law enforcement agencies in accordance with those
reasonable arrangements, terms, and conditions as may be agreed upon between
the respective heads of the law enforcement agencies.
(Prior Code, § 32.20) (Ord. passed 4-20-2004)
§ 32.21 AUXILIARY POLICE DIVISION.
   (A)   There is hereby established, within the Police Department, an
auxiliary police division.
   (B)   Auxiliary police officers shall be comprised of volunteers, all of
whom shall serve without compensation, and composed of as many members as may,
from time to time, be determined by the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 32.21)
VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.35 DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created a department known as the Volunteer Fire Department,
the object of which shall be the prevention and extinguishment of fire and the
protection of life and property within the limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 32.30)
§ 32.36 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each member of the Volunteer Fire Department shall be issued a badge
designating his or her rank.
   (B)   All motor equipment of the Volunteer Fire Department shall have the
right-of-way over all other traffic when responding to an alarm.
   (C)   Each member of the Volunteer Fire Department driving a car shall be
issued a suitable insignia to be attached to the car.
   (D)   No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire hose except upon
specific orders from the Fire Chief or other officer in charge where the hose
is issued.
   (E)   No person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any obstruction to
be placed within 25 feet of the entrance to any fire station or other place
where fire apparatus is stored, or within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or
cistern.
   (F)   No person shall maliciously turn in or cause to be turned in a false
fire alarm.
(Prior Code, § 32.31) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   All regularly appointed members of the Volunteer Fire Department are
hereby given the necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing
the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   It is hereby made the special duty of the Police Chief and other peace
officers who may be on duty and available for fire duty, to respond to all fire
alarms and assist the Volunteer Fire Department in the protection of life and
property, in regulating traffic, maintaining order, and in enforcing observance
of all sections of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.32)
PLANNING COMMITTEE
§ 32.50 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a board to be known as the town’s Planning Board
whose jurisdiction shall include the area within the territorial jurisdiction
of the town, pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-361 and 160A-362, to perform the
functions and duties prescribed in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 32.45)
§ 32.51 COMPOSITION; VACANCIES.
   (A)   The Planning Board/Board of Adjustment shall consist of seven regular
members. The seven regular members shall reside within the corporate limits of
the town and shall be appointed by the Town Board.
   (B)   Members shall hold no other public office or position under town
government.
   (C)   Three of the initial members of the Planning Board shall be appointed
for three-year terms.
   (D)   Three members for two-year terms.
   (E)   One member shall serve for a one-year term.
   (F)   Their successors shall be appointed for full terms of three years
each.
   (G)   In the case of a vacancy occurring during a term, the Town Board shall
appoint a replacement for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (H)   In cases where the town establishes extraterritorial jurisdictional
(ETJ) authority over a given area as specified by an Extraterritorial Boundary
Ordinance adopted pursuant to G.S. § 160A-360(b), the town shall allow for an
individual residing within the ETJ area to be appointed to act as a regular
Planning Board member in accordance with G.S. § 160-A-360.
   (I)   ETJ members to the Planning Board/Board of Adjustments shall be
appointed by the Board of County Commissioners in accordance with state general
statutes.
   (J)   The individual(s) appointed to the Planning Board as representatives
of the ETJ area shall have equal rights, privileges, and duties with the other
members of the Planning Board in all matters pertaining of the original
regulations and in consideration of any proposed amendments to such
regulations.
   (K)   On all matters pertaining to the regulation of the area within the
corporate limits, only those Planning Board members appointed by the town’s
Board of Commissioners to represent the area within the corporate limits shall
vote.
(Prior Code, § 32.46)
§ 32.52 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall elect a Chairperson and create and fill such
other offices as it may determine.
   (B)   The term of the Chairperson and other officers shall be one year, with
eligibility for reelection.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall adopt rules for transaction of its business
and shall keep a record of its members’ attendance and of its resolutions
discussion’s findings and recommendations which record shall be a public
record.
   (D)   The Planning Board shall hold at least one meeting monthly, and all of
its meetings shall be open to the public.
   (E)   In cases with the Board of Adjustment, meetings shall be held in
accordance with the provisions outlined within the town’s Zoning Ordinance with
respect to meeting organization and operation.
   (F)   For taking action on any matter pertaining to the ETJ area, there
shall be present a quorum of no less than four members, one of whom must be a
representative from the ETJ area.
   (G)   For taking action on any matter pertaining to the area within the
corporate limits, there shall be present a quorum of no less than four of the
members appointed to represent such area.
   (H)   Faithful attendance at meetings is considered a prerequisite for the
maintenance of membership on the Planning Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.47)
§ 32.53 EXPENDITURES; INCURRING DEBT; DONATIONS.
...missing material...
(Prior Code, § 32.48)
§ 32.54 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Planning Board to view and recommend
plans to bring about a coordinated and harmonious development of the area.
      (2)   The Planning Board is hereby designated as the Planning Agency for
the preparation of a Zoning Plan for the town under authority of G.S. § 60A-
387.
   (B)   In addition, the Planning Board is empowered to:
      (1)   Acquire and maintain in current form such basic information and
materials as are necessary to an understanding of past trends, present
conditions, and forces at work to cause changes in these conditions;
      (2)   Identify needs and problems growing out of those conditions;
      (3)   Prepare, and from time to time amend and revise, a comprehensive
and coordinated plan for the physical development of the area;
      (4)   Establish principles and policies for guiding action in the
development of the area;
      (5)   Prepare and recommend to the Board of Commissioners ordinances
promoting orderly development along the lines indicated in the comprehensive
plan;
      (6)   Determine whether specific proposed developments of the
comprehensive plan for growth and improvement of the area;
      (7)   Keep the Board of Commissioners and the general public informed and
advised as to these matters; and
      (8)   Perform any other duties that may lawfully be assigned to it.
(Prior Code, § 32.49)
§ 32.55 ZONING AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Board shall prepare and submit to the Board of
Commissioners for its consideration, and possible adoption, a Zoning Ordinance
for the control of the height, area, bulk, location, and use of buildings and
premises in the area, in accordance with provisions of G.S. § 160A-360.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Board may initiate from time to time proposals for
amendment of the Zoning Ordinance and map, based upon its studies and plans.
      (2)   In addition, it shall review and make recommendations to the Board
of Commissioners concerning all proposed amendments to the Zoning Ordinance and
map.
   (C)   The Planning Board shall serve as a Board of Adjustment under the
Zoning Ordinance, hear appeals, interpret the ordinance, issue or deny special
use permits and/or conditional use permits, and grant variances in accordance
with the requirements established for the Board of Adjustment under the town’s
Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32.50)
§ 32.56 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Board shall prepare and submit to the Board of
Commissioners for its consideration, and possible adoption, regulations
controlling the subdivision of land in accordance with the provisions of G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 2 as amended.
      (2)   It shall review from time to time, the effectiveness of such
regulations and may make proposals to the Board of Commissioners for amendment
of other improvement of those regulations and their enforcement.
   (B)   In accordance with the provisions of any regulations that are adopted,
the Planning Board may review subdivision plats that are submitted and:
      (1)   Make recommendations to the Town Board concerning such plats; or
      (2)   Approve them, approve them subject to conditions, or deny approval
for a submitted plat.
(Prior Code, § 32.51)
§ 32.57 MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Board may conduct such public hearings as may be
required to gather information necessary for the drafting, establishment, and
maintenance of the comprehensive plans.
      (2)   Before recommending any such plans to the Board of Commissioners,
the Planning Board shall hold at least one public hearing thereon.
   (B)   The Planning Board shall have power to promote public interest in and
an understanding of its recommendations, and to that end, it may publish and
distribute copies of its recommendations and may employ such other means of
publicity and education as it may determine.
(Prior Code, § 32.52)
§ 32.58 PLANNING BOARD; BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment is charged with hearing appeals from the Zoning
Administrator’s decisions; granting, in specified circumstances, special
exceptions, special use permits, or conditional use permits under the Rezoning
Ordinance; and issuing variances under the Zoning Ordinance, all pursuant to
provisions of G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 3 and the town’s Zoning
Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 32.53)
§ 32.59 CONFLICTS AND VALIDITY.
   (A)   Conflicts. All ordinances, or parts of ordinances in conflict with the
ordinance codified herein are hereby repealed to the extent of such conflict.
   (B)   Validity. Should any section or provision of the ordinance codified
herein be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
declaration shall not affect the validity of the ordinance in its entirety or
any part thereof other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or
invalid.
(Prior Code, § 32.54) (Ord. passed 4-4-2006)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Disbursement of funds; certificate
   
33.02   Purchasing Agent
   
33.03   Purchasing order
   
33.04   Unpaid taxes that are liens on real property
Cash Management and Investment Plan
   
33.15   Cash Management Plan established
   
33.16   Cash receipts; deposits
   
33.17   Banking relations
   
33.18   Billing receipts; procedures
   
33.19   Investments
   
33.20   Duties of Finance Officer; cash disbursement procedures
   
33.21   Reports of plan
Purchasing Procedures
   
33.35   Formal bid procedure
   
33.36   Informal bid procedure
   
33.37   Exceptions to bid procedures
   
33.38   Deposits on contracts
   
33.39   Number of bids required
   
33.40   Withdrawal of bid
   
33.41   Publication of bids
Cross-reference:
   Finance Officer, see §
31.17
   Minority business development, see §
34.02
   Town Clerk, see §
31.15
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS; CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   In accordance with the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act,
no bill or claim against the town may be paid unless it has been approved by
the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to which the
expense is charged.
   (B)   No check or draft of the town shall be valid unless it bears on its
face the certificate of the Finance Officer as follows:
“This disbursement has been approved as required by the Local Government Budget
and Fiscal Control Act.”
   (C)   No contract, agreement, or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the certificate of the Finance Officer as follows:
“This instrument has been preaudited in the manner required by the Local
Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act.”
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
Statutory reference:
   Preaudit of disbursements required, see G.S. § 159-28
§ 33.02 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall serve as Purchasing Agent.
   (B)   As the Purchasing Agent, the Town Clerk shall:
      (1)   Make or approve all purchases of materials, equipment, and supplies
authorized by the Board of Commissioners;
      (2)   Establish sets of standards and specifications to control purchases
by the town;
      (3)   Prepare and publish specifications and notices to bidders;
      (4)   Advise the Town Board as to anticipated needs for purchases and
make purchases in advance of needs as authorized by the Town Board;
      (5)   Store materials, equipment, and supplies in advance of actual need;
      (6)   Keep records of all purchases made and of the destination or
ultimate use of the materials, equipment, and supplies; and
      (7)   Cause to be kept an inventory of all town property and add items as
acquired.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 33.03 PURCHASING ORDER.
   (A)   Before any order is given for items to be paid by the town or any
purchase made by a town employee, a purchasing order must first be obtained
from the Town Clerk.
   (B)   Any town employee purchasing goods without a purchase order from the
Town Clerk will be held responsible for the cost of the goods.
(Prior Code, § 34.03)
§ 33.04 UNPAID TAXES THAT ARE LIENS ON REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   On the second Monday in February in each year, each County Tax
Collector shall report to the governing body the total amount of unpaid taxes
for the current fiscal year that are liens on real property, and the governing
body shall thereupon order the County Tax Collector to advertise those tax
liens.
   (B)   (1)   The County Tax Collector shall advertise municipal tax liens by
posting a notice of the liens at the County Courthouse and by publishing each
lien at least one time in one or more newspapers having general circulation in
the taxing unit.
      (2)   Advertisements of tax liens shall be made during the period of
March 1 through June 30. The cost of newspaper advertising shall be paid by the
taxing unit.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
CASH MANAGEMENT AND INVESTMENT PLAN
§ 33.15 CASH MANAGEMENT PLAN ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts the Cash Management and
Investment Plan.
      (2)   The Cash Management Plan addresses cash receipts, cash mobilization
and management of available resources (investments), cash disbursements,
banking relations, and monitoring and reporting on the plan.
   (B)   (1)   The independent auditor for the town shall monitor the town’s
compliance with the established Cash Management Plan and the reports of the
Finance Officer thereon.
      (2)   He or she shall report his or her findings and recommendations
annually to the Town Board as a part of the annual audit.
   (C)   (1)   Each year, the plan will be reviewed by the Finance Officer
during budget preparation.
      (2)   The Finance Officer shall amend the plan, as appropriate, to
further enhance the town’s cash management program.
      (3)   All plan amendments shall be presented to the Mayor and/or Finance
Commissioner for review before the amendment is presented to the Town Board.
   (D)   (1)   All employees of the town shall follow the Cash Management Plan
and provisions of this subchapter, and the willful or continued failure to do
so is sufficient cause for immediate dismissal from municipal employment.
      (2)   Any deviations from the plan by any official or employee shall be
reported to the Mayor and Town Board at the next Town Board meeting after the
deviation has occurred.
(Prior Code, § 34.15)
§ 33.16 CASH RECEIPTS; DEPOSITS.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall devise and implement a banking system for
the town.
   (B)   The system shall include appropriate investment accounts and also a
checking account for all funds.
(Prior Code, § 34.16)
§ 33.17 BANKING RELATIONS.
   (A)   Should the value of the town’s demand and time deposits exceed the
federal deposit insurance coverage limits, the Finance Officer shall determine
the financial soundness of banks and savings and loans with which the town
desires to do business.
   (B)   (1)   The town shall maintain bank accounts as designated by the Board
of Commissioners. The Town Board will designate the selected financial
institution as the official depository for the town.
      (2)   The Finance Officer shall sign a contract with the official
depository establishing the banking services and costs that will be applicable
to the town.
   (C)   (1)   The Finance Officer shall maintain a balance in the official
depository equal to one month’s expenditures or an amount sufficient to offset
the costs associated with the account, whichever is greater.
      (2)   The Finance Officer shall constantly review the activity on the
accounts to determine target balances which shall accomplish the objectives of
bank compensation and expenditure coverage.
(Prior Code, § 34.17)
§ 33.18 BILLING RECEIPTS; PROCEDURES.
   Receipts from services such as park fees, swimming lessons, tennis courts,
zoning permits, cemetery fees, and the like shall be delivered to the Finance
Officer daily with appropriate reports verifying cash receipts.
(Prior Code, § 34.18)
§ 33.19 INVESTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Monies shall be deposited into the appropriate investment
accounts at the bank no later than 2:00 p.m. to ensure that the deposit will be
credited for that day.
      (2)   The deposits shall be made by the Finance Officer or by employees
duly authorized to do so and supervised by the Finance Officer.
      (3)   All employees shall also promptly forward copies of deposit tickets
to the Finance Officer for deposit verification.
   (B)   (1)   The town shall remain 100% invested at all times with the
exception of monies transferred to the checking account and monies held out for
petty cash and change purposes.
      (2)   ONE-HUNDRED PERCENT INVESTED refers to actual investments as well
as the use of interest-bearing checking accounts.
   (C)   (1)   Eligible investments shall be limited to obligations of the
United States government, such as treasury bills, bonds, and notes, time
deposits with any bank or savings and loan whose principal office is in the
state, and the State Cash Management Trust.
      (2)   Time deposits in excess of the federal deposit insurance of
$100,000 shall be placed with only those financial institutions which have been
analyzed and determined credit-worthy by the Finance Officer.
      (3)   Repurchase agreements shall not be permitted unless approved by the
Town Board.
   (D)   (1)   Collateralization for deposits shall be in accordance with 20
NCAC 07.
      (2)   All deposits for the town shall be fully protected through deposit
insurance and collateral securities pursuant to 20 NCAC 07.
      (3)   When utilizing a financial institution, the Finance Officer shall
immediately require additional collateral to be pledged should the value of
securities pledged for the town’s deposits fall to a level that is materially
less than the amount of the deposits.
      (4)   All escrow agreements shall be executed between the depository and
the escrow agent as found in 20 NCAC 07.
   (E)   Certificates of deposit purchased by the town shall be delivered to
the Finance Officer.
   (F)   The Finance Officer shall ensure proper diversification of the
investments in order to minimize risks brought on by economic and market
changes.
(Prior Code, § 34.19)
§ 33.20 DUTIES OF FINANCE OFFICER; CASH DISBURSEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall appropriate and expend municipal money
pursuant to G.S. § 159-28(b).
   (B)   (1)   To create the maximum amount of funds available for investment,
the Finance Officer shall pay the obligations of the town biweekly. The Finance
Officer shall pay the obligations of the town by the due date.
      (2)   The Finance Officer shall determine whether or not the discount for
cash payment is more beneficial than payment on the billing’s due date.
      (3)   The Finance Officer shall periodically review the disbursement
cycle and changes shall be instituted if the disbursement cycle can be
extended.
   (C)   The Finance Officer shall require that all departments consolidate
payments to one vendor. The Finance Officer shall ensure that all departments
using the same vendor(s) receive the same due date and discount date.
   (D)   The Finance Officer shall mail all checks after 12:00 p.m. provided
the afternoon mailing will not result in missing the discount or payment due
date.
   (E)   The Finance Officer shall issue payroll checks biweekly. In addition,
the Finance Officer shall submit payroll taxes on the due date.
   (F)   The Finance Officer shall constantly review supplier contracts to
ascertain whether or not the town is paying only for goods and services
received or rendered.
(Prior Code, § 34.20)
§ 33.21 REPORTS OF PLAN.
   (A)   The Finance Officer shall report monthly to the Town Board concerning
the actual receipts and disbursements. Any overages or shortages shall be
explained.
   (B)   The Finance Officer shall report to the Mayor any changes in bank
service charges and the amount of additional money required to offset the
increased banking costs.
   (C)   The Finance Officer shall report to the Town Board the status of
delinquent tax payments and other revenues due to the town from private
persons.
   (D)   The Finance Officer shall semiannually submit the LGC-203 report of
cash balances to the Secretary of the Local Government Commission pursuant to
G.S. § 159-33.
   (E)   Each year the plan shall be reviewed by the Town Board during budget
preparation. The Finance Officer shall report to the Finance Committee any
amendments that need to be adopted, any procedural changes needed, and any
actions necessary to be taken by the Town Board to enhance the Cash Management
Plan.
   (F)   The Finance Officer shall report to the Town Board any deviations from
the Cash Management Plan and efforts undertaken to ensure that these deviations
do not reoccur.
(Prior Code, § 34.21)
PURCHASING PROCEDURES
§ 33.35 FORMAL BID PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the estimated cost of supplies, apparatus, materials, or equipment
to be purchased exceeds $20,000, the town shall advertise and receive formal
bids.
   (B)   If the estimated cost of a contract for construction or repair work
exceeds the maximum amount allowed by G.S. § 143-129, the town shall advertise
and receive formal bids before awarding the contract.
(Prior Code, § 34.35)
§ 33.36 INFORMAL BID PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   When the cost of a purchase contract or a contract for
construction or repair work exceeds $10,000 but is less than the formal bid
limits, the town shall obtain informal bids.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall receive these bids, and shall keep and
maintain for public inspection a record of all bids submitted.
   (B)   All contracts shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidders,
taking into account quality, performance, and the time specified in the
proposal.
(Prior Code, § 34.36)
§ 33.37 EXCEPTIONS TO BID PROCEDURES.
   Neither formal nor informal bid procedures will be followed in the following
cases:
   (A)   For purchases of gasoline, diesel fuel, alcohol fuel, motor fuel, or
fuel oil;
   (B)   In cases of special emergency involving the health and safety of the
citizens of the town or their property;
   (C)   If the contract is between the town and another governmental unit or
the United States government;
   (D)   If the project will use unemployment relief labor paid for in whole or
in part from state or federal funds;
   (E)   If it is a construction project, the cost of which will not exceed
$75,000, and the work is to be done by employees of the town; or
   (F)   If it is a contract with the State Highway Commission for street
construction and repair.
(Prior Code, § 34.37)
§ 33.38 DEPOSITS ON CONTRACTS.
   The town may require a deposit of 5% on all contracts that exceed $50,000.
The Town Clerk shall certify that these deposits have been obtained before
contracts are awarded.
(Prior Code, § 34.38)
§ 33.39 NUMBER OF BIDS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The town shall require at least three sufficient bids on contracts for
construction or repair work that exceed the maximum amount allowed by G.S. §
143-129.
   (B)   If fewer than three bids are received, the town shall re-advertise
and, after the second advertisement, may award the contract even if only one
bid is received.
(Prior Code, § 34.39)
§ 33.40 WITHDRAWAL OF BID.
   (A)   If a contractor who submits a formal bid for a construction or repair
project discovers an error in the bid, the contractor may request that the bid
be withdrawn and his or her deposit returned.
   (B)   This request must be made before the contract is awarded and within 72
hours after the bids are opened.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners shall hold a hearing on the matter and may
allow the bid to be withdrawn if an error is found.
   (D)   Otherwise, the bid deposit is forfeited. A contractor who makes such a
request will not be awarded the contract, even after a subsequent re-
advertisement.
(Prior Code, § 34.40)
§ 33.41 PUBLICATION OF BIDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to a resolution by the Board of Commissioners, bids shall be
invited by publication of a notice at least eight days before, or in the case
of real property, 30 days before the date specified for the opening of bids.
   (B)   This advertisement shall state the time and place where plans and
specifications, or descriptions of supplies, materials, and equipment may be
had; the time and place for opening of the bids; and shall reserve to the Board
of Commissioners the right to reject any and all bids.
(Prior Code, § 34.41)
CHAPTER 34: TOWN POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Town liability
   
34.02   Minority business development
   
34.03   Disposal of personal property
   
34.04   Municipal records retention and disposition schedule
   
34.05   Smoking restricted in town buildings and vehicles
Use of Town Property for Special Events
   
34.20   Purpose
   
34.21   Conditions for issuance of permit
   
34.22   Revocation of permit
   
34.23   Interference prohibited
   
34.24   Parks and recreation
 
   
34.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 TOWN LIABILITY.
   (A)   As resolved by the Board of Commissioners, it shall be the policy of
the town to pay defense costs, expenses, judgments, interest on judgments,
deductibles on insurance policies, and other related costs on behalf of its
officers and employees against civil claims and judgments, and to satisfy same
either through the purchase of insurance or otherwise, provided that adoption
of this section shall not be deemed an assumption of liability for payment
claims or judgments in excess of any fund established by the Town Board for
payment of claims or judgments in addition to any insurance coverage or any
combination of this type of a fund and insurance coverage.
   (B)   Further, the town will not defend a claim or lawsuit or pay a claim or
judgment when the officer or employee willfully:
      (1)   Acts or fails to act because of actual fraud, corruption, or
malice;
      (2)   Acts or fails to act as a result of or at a time when self-
indulgence substantially impaired his or her judgment (as, for example, an
officer or employee who causes damage or injury while intoxicated or under the
influence of drugs while on the job);
      (3)   Acts or fails to act, except in case of emergencies or the
existence of extenuating circumstances, directly contrary to instructions from
his or her superior, or directly contrary to advice of the Town Attorney; or
      (4)   Acts or fails to act in such a manner as to constitute a criminal
act (as, for example, misappropriation of property or funds).
   (C)   (1)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall determine whether or not
a claim or suit filed against an officer or employee meets the requirements
specified herein for providing a defense for that officer or employee.
      (2)   If the Mayor or designee determines that a claim or suit does not
meet the requirements specified herein, the affected officer or employee may
appeal the determination to the Board of Commissioners.
      (3)   The Town Board shall afford the officer or employee a hearing on
the matter and shall decide whether or not the claim or suit meets the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFFICER and EMPLOYEE. Present or past Mayors and members of the Town
Board, officers, employees, or volunteers, and present or past appointed
members of town boards, agencies, committees, and commissions who might
hereafter have claims or judgments entered against them.
   (E)   The policies specified herein shall not be applicable unless notice of
the claim or suit is given to the Town Board through the Mayor or Town Attorney
prior to the time the claim is settled or civil suit is litigated and judgment
is entered.
   (F)   (1)   This section shall not be interpreted in any way to relieve any
insurance company of its obligation under any insurance policy to protect the
interests of any insured under the policy, or to reduce or eliminate the rights
of any officer or employee of the town against any other party.
      (2)   Further, except as expressly stated herein, this section is not to
be interpreted as a waiver of any rights the town has against any party.
      (3)   Nor shall the adoption of this section be construed to waive the
defense of governmental immunity.
(Prior Code, § 35.01)
§ 34.02 MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The town shall have a verifiable goal of 5% for participation by
minority businesses in building construction contracts, awarded pursuant to
G.S. § 143-128.2.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall compile a list of minority businesses within the
bidding area, using information obtained from the State Department of Economic
and Community Development, Minority Business Development Agency, or from other
institutions or agencies providing this type of information.
   (C)   (1)   This list shall be updated on an annual basis and shall be open
for inspection and shall be available so that minority businesses will have the
opportunity to add their names to the list.
      (2)   Copies of this section shall be transmitted to the businesses on
the list as soon as practicable along with the name of the official who shall
serve as the contact person for minority businesses and be responsible for
answering project- related questions posed by minority businesses.
   (D)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification system or the single prime contract system, notice of the
contract shall be transmitted to minority businesses on the above list.
   (E)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single prime contract system, documents related to the
contract shall be available for inspection at a convenient and accessible
location of which minority businesses shall receive notice.
   (F)   (1)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single prime contract system, the contact person designated
pursuant to division (C) above shall hold a pre-bid conference to orient
contractors and subcontractors to the policy expressed in this section as well
as bid procedures and regulations.
      (2)   Minority businesses on the list obtained and maintained as provided
herein shall be notified of and invited to these pre-bid conferences.
   (G)   For each building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification or single prime contract system, published notice of the contract
shall include a summary of this section.
   (H)   For any building contract put out for bids under the separate
specification contract system, the contact person designated herein shall
maintain records with respect to:
      (1)   Those contractors or subcontractors notified of the project and the
number of these contractors and subcontractors that are minority businesses as
defined in G.S. § 143-128 appearing on the list of minority businesses
maintained pursuant to division (B) above;
      (2)   Those contractors or subcontractors that bid or otherwise respond
to notice of the project and the number of these that are on the maintained
list of minority businesses;
      (3)   Those contractors or subcontractors awarded contracts as part of
the project and the number and identity of those that are on the list of
minority businesses; and
      (4)   The percentage of work on the project that is to be performed by
minority businesses appearing on the list maintained pursuant to this section.
   (I)   For any building contract put out for bids under the single prime
contract system, the single prime contractor shall:
      (1)   Notify those minority businesses appearing on the list of minority
businesses, maintained pursuant to division (B) above, of the portion of the
project which will be subcontracted by the single contractor and solicit bids
from those minority businesses; and
      (2)   Submit with his or her bids records with respect to:
         (a)   Those subcontractors notified of the project and of those
elements of the project for which subcontractors will be let, and the number of
these subcontractors that are minority businesses as defined in G.S. § 143-128
appearing on the list of minority businesses maintained pursuant to division
(B) above;
         (b)   Those subcontractors that bid or otherwise respond to notice of
the project and the number of these that are on the maintained list of minority
businesses;
         (c)   Those subcontractors awarded contracts as part of the project
and the number and identity of those that are on the maintained list of
minority businesses; and
         (d)   The percentage of work on the project that is to be performed by
minority businesses appearing on the list maintained pursuant to this section.
   (J)   These policies shall be a part of the request for proposals for any
building contract, and noncompliance by any single prime bidder shall be
grounds for declaring the bid non-responsive.
(Prior Code, § 35.02)
§ 34.03 DISPOSAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   (A) The Town Board is hereby authorized, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-266(c), to
dispose of any surplus personal property owned by the town, whenever it
determines, in its discretion, that:
      (1)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$5,000;
      (2)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
      (3)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the town would best be served by disposing of
the property.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Clerk may dispose of any surplus personal property by
any means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to secure for the town
the fair market value in money or other consideration and to accomplish the
disposal efficiently and economically to include offering for sale at public
auction, donation to a non-profit organization, Internet online auction, upset
bid process, or destruction.
      (2)   Such sale may be public or private, and with or without notice and
minimum waiting period. The Town Clerk shall have the right to add to or delete
from the properties to be ...missing material...
   (C)   (1)   The surplus property shall be sold to the party who tenders the
highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the town and
the Town Clerk is hereby authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title
documents necessary or appropriate to consummate such sale.
      (2)   If no offers are received within a reasonable time, the Town Clerk
may retain the property for the town, obtain any reasonably available salvage
value, donate to a non-profit organization, or cause it to be disposed of as
waste material.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall keep a record of all property sold under the
authority of this section and that record shall describe the property sold or
exchanged, to who it was sold or with whom it was exchanged, and the amount of
money or other considerations received for each sale or exchange. This record
shall be reported to the Town Board on an annual basis.
   (E)   The Town Clerk is authorized to delegate any or all of the authority
granted or responsibilities assigned under this section to other town
employees.
(Prior Code, § 35.03)
§ 34.04 MUNICIPAL RECORDS RETENTION AND DISPOSITION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The records retention and disposition schedule and retention periods
governing the records series listed herein are hereby approved.
   (B)   In accordance with the provisions of G.S. Chapters 121 and 132, the
records do not and will not further use or value for official business,
research, or reference purposes after the respective retention periods
specified herein are authorized to be destroyed or otherwise disposed of by the
agency or official having custody of them without further reference or
approval.
   (C)   These records may not be destroyed prior to the time periods stated;
however, for sufficient reason they may be retained for longer periods.
(Prior Code, § 35.04)
§ 34.05 SMOKING RESTRICTED IN TOWN BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SMOKING. The inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying of a lighted pipe,
cigar, cigarette, or other combustible tobacco product.
   (B)   Smoking prohibited in municipal buildings. It shall be unlawful for
any person to smoke in the Town Hall.
   (C)   Smoking in municipal vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to
smoke in any vehicle now or hereafter owned or leased by the town when the
vehicle is occupied by someone other than a town employee. Smoking is not
prohibited at other times.
(Prior Code, § 35.05) (Ord. 24, passed 9-13-1993) Penalty, see §
34.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to protect employee and public health, safety, and welfare, see
G.S. § 160A-174
USE OF TOWN PROPERTY FOR SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 34.20 PURPOSE.
   The Town Clerk is authorized to issue permits for the use of town-owned
property for the following purposes:
   (A)   Outdoor entertainment, including but not limited to outdoor musical
concerts or performances;
   (B)   Sporting events;
   (C)   Recreational programs;
   (D)   Festivals and celebrations;
   (E)   Class reunions, family reunions, religious events, weddings, parties,
and club or organization meetings;
   (F)   Events honoring or recognizing persons or organizations;
   (G)   Noncommercial promotional activities;
   (H)   Noncommercial fundraising functions; or
   (I)   Any activity similar in nature to those listed in divisions (A)
through (H) above.
(Prior Code, § 35.15)
§ 34.21 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   (1)   The Town Clerk shall not issue a permit for the use of town-
owned property unless the person or organization seeking the use of town-owned
property or part thereof shall first make written application to the Town
Clerk.
      (2)   The written application shall be filed with the Town Clerk at least
15 days before the proposed date of the special event.
      (3)   The Town Clerk shall provide a form for making an application. The
Town Clerk may issue a permit if the Town Clerk finds:
         (a)   The proposed use of town-owned property or part thereof will not
unreasonably interfere with the normal activities of surrounding residents,
businesses, or institutions;
         (b)   Neither the proposed use nor the anticipated noise level arising
from that use will have an unreasonably adverse effect upon surrounding
residents, businesses, or institutions;
         (c)   The pedestrian and motor vehicle traffic generated by the
proposed use can be accommodated reasonably and safely on the streets and
walkways of the area surrounding the town-owned property or portion thereof;
         (d)   Adequate security and crowd control can be provided by the
Police Department;
         (e)   Adequate fire control and fire prevention service can be
provided by the Volunteer Fire Department;
         (f)   The applicant has obtained liability insurance coverage as may
be required for this type of event or filed a hold harmless waiver agreement
with the Town Clerk; and
         (g)   The applicant has paid the required fee as set by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for a special events permit shall be filed with the
Town Clerk not later than 15 days before the proposed date of the event.
      (2)   The permit shall be granted or denied within a reasonable time
after the filing of the application. The Mayor shall provide for the holding of
an informal hearing for any person whose application for a permit has been
denied, provided, however, that the person requests an informal hearing not
later than three days after the denial.
   (C)   (1)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Mayor may appeal that
decision to the Board of Commissioners by giving notice for the appeal in
writing to the Town Clerk on a form prescribed by the town not later than three
days after the decision. The appeal shall be set for a hearing before the Town
Board at the next regular meeting of the Town Board.
      (2)   The Town Clerk shall notify the person filing the appeal in writing
of the time and place of the hearing. The Town Board may affirm, modify, or
reverse the decision of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 35.16)
§ 34.22 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall revoke any permit granted for a special event for
the following causes:
      (1)   The violation by any participant of §
34.21; or
      (2)   The failure to comply with the terms of the permit.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any event or
activity conducted under the sponsorship of the town.
(Prior Code, § 35.17)
§ 34.23 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the use by any person
or organization holding a permit issued by the town for a special event
pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.18) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.24 PARKS AND RECREATION.
   In order to enforce regulations at the town’s recreation park and
playgrounds located on the town’s property, the following is effective: No
littering allowed, no profanity allowed, no dogs nor any other animals (whether
on leash or not) are permitted to enter the grounds enclosed by the park gates,
no bicycles allowed, no alcoholic beverages allowed, no drugs allowed, no
vandalism allowed, and no admittance allowed to the park after dark.
(Prior Code, § 35.19) (Ord. passed 5-6-2002) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
34.05 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 35.05)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
34.24 shall pay a civil penalty in the amount of $50 to the Town Clerk within
15 days after issuance of a citation.
      (2)   Any unpaid civil penalties shall be collected by means of a civil
action in the nature of debt.
(Prior Code, § 35.19)
(Ord. 24, passed 9-13-1993; Ord. passed 5-6-2002)
CHAPTER 35: TOWN EMERGENCIES
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   State of emergency; authority of Mayor
   
35.02   Proclamation imposing prohibitions and restrictions
   
35.03   Removal of prohibitions and restrictions
   
35.04   Superseding and amendatory proclamations
   
35.05   Termination of proclamation
   
35.06   Authority in absence or disability of Mayor
   
35.07   Territorial application
Authorized Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
35.20   Evacuation
   
35.21   Curfew
   
35.22   Restrictions on alcoholic beverages
   
35.23   Restrictions on dangerous weapons and substances
   
35.24   Restrictions on access to designated areas
   
35.25   Restrictions to maintain order and safety
 
   
35.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Alcoholic beverages, see
Ch. 110
   Curfew, see §§
131.20 through
131.27
   Mayor and Board of Commissioners; powers and duties, see §
30.01
   Mayor Pro Tem; selection and duties, see §
30.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; AUTHORITY OF MAYOR.
   (A)   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public emergency, for
any reason, public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or
afford adequate protection for lives, safety, or property, or whenever the
occurrence of any such condition is imminent.
   (B)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health, and welfare of the people within the
town or any part thereof, or threatening damages to or destruction of property,
the Mayor of the town is hereby authorized and empowered under G.S. §§ 14-
288.12 and 166A-8 to issue a public proclamation declaring to all persons the
existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more effectively protect
the lives and property of people within the town, to place in effect any or all
of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (C)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit, by the
proclamation, the application of all or any part of these restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the town and to specific hours
of the day or night, and to exempt from all or any part of these restrictions,
while acting in the line of and within the scope of their respective duties,
law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other public employees; rescue
squad members, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty
employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper,
magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations operated
for profit; and other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health, and welfare needs of people within the town.
(Prior Code, § 36.01) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.02 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor of the town, by proclamation, may impose the
prohibitions and restrictions specified in §§
35.20 through
35.25 in the manner described in those sections.
      (2)   The Mayor may impose as many of those specified prohibitions and
restrictions as he or she finds are necessary, because of an emergency, to
maintain an acceptable level of public order and services, and to protect
lives, safety, and property.
      (3)   The Mayor shall recite his or her findings in the proclamation.
   (B)   (1)   The proclamation shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take
reasonable steps to give notice of the terms of the proclamation to those
affected by it and shall post a copy of it in the County Courthouse and in
public places within the town.
      (2)   The Mayor shall, as soon as possible, send reports of the substance
of the proclamation to the Chairperson of the County Board of Commissioners, or
designee, and to the mass communications media which serves the affected area.
   (C)   The Mayor shall retain the text of the proclamation and furnish upon
request certified copies of it.
(Prior Code, § 36.02) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.03 REMOVAL OF PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The Mayor shall, by proclamation, terminate the entire declaration of
emergency or remove any of the prohibitions and restrictions when the emergency
no longer requires them, or when directed to do so by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 36.03) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 35.04 SUPERSEDING AND AMENDATORY PROCLAMATIONS.
   The Mayor in his or her discretion may invoke the restrictions authorized by
this chapter in separate proclamations, and may amend any proclamation by means
of a superseding proclamation in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
35.02 above.
(Prior Code, § 36.04) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 35.05 TERMINATION OF PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation issued under this chapter shall expire five days after its
last imposition unless sooner terminated in writing under the same procedures
set forth in §
35.02 for proclamations.
(Prior Code, § 36.05) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 35.06 AUTHORITY IN ABSENCE OR DISABILITY OF MAYOR.
   In case of the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem, or
other person as may be designated by the Town Board, shall have and exercise
all of the powers herein given to the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 36.06) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989)
§ 35.07 TERRITORIAL APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply only within the corporate limits of the
municipality, or within any area over which the municipality has jurisdiction
to enact general police power ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 36.07) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989)
AUTHORIZED PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 35.20 EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct and compel the evacuation of all or part of the
population of the town; prescribe routes, modes of transportation, and
destination in connection with evacuation; and control ingress and egress of a
disaster area, the movement of persons within the area, and the occupancy of
premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set forth or amended in a
subsequent proclamation which shall be well-publicized.
(Prior Code, § 36.20) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.21 CURFEW.
   (A)   (1)    (a)   The proclamation may impose a curfew prohibiting in
certain areas and during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who
is not a member of an exempted class.
         (b)   The proclamation shall specify the geographical area or areas
and the period during each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies.
      (2)   (a)   The Mayor may exempt from some, or all of the curfew
restrictions, classes of people whose exemption the Mayor finds necessary for
the preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare.
         (b)   The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the proclamation, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor, by proclamation, removes
the curfew.
(Prior Code, § 36.21) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.22 RESTRICTIONS ON ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit the possession or consumption of any
alcoholic beverage, including beer, wine, and spirituous liquor other than on
one’s own premises, and may prohibit the transfer, transportation, sale, or
purchase of any alcoholic beverage within the town.
   (B)   The prohibition, if imposed, may apply to transfers of alcoholic
beverages by employees of Alcoholic Beverage Control stores as well as by
anyone else within the geographical area described.
(Prior Code, § 36.22) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.23 RESTRICTIONS ON DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   (1) The proclamation may prohibit the transportation or possession off
one’s own premises, or the sale or purchase, of any dangerous weapon or
substance.
      (2)   The Mayor may exempt from some, or all of these restrictions,
classes of people whose possession, transfer, or transportation of certain
dangerous weapons or substances is necessary to the preservation of the
public’s health, safety, or welfare.
      (3)   The proclamation shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each is exempted.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DANGEROUS WEAPON OR SUBSTANCE.
         (a)   Any deadly weapon, ammunition, explosive, incendiary device,
radioactive material or device as defined in G.S. § 14-288.8(c)(5), gasoline,
or other instrument or substance designed for a use that carries a threat of
serious bodily injury or destruction of property;
         (b)   Any other instrument or substance that is capable of being used
to inflict serious bodily injury or destruction of property, when the
circumstances indicate that there is some probability that the instrument or
substance will be so used; or
         (c)   Any part or ingredient in any instrument or substance included
above when the circumstances indicate a probability that the part or ingredient
will be so used.
   (C)   If imposed, the restrictions shall apply throughout the jurisdiction
of the town or part thereof as designated in the proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 36.23) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.24 RESTRICTIONS ON ACCESS TO DESIGNATED AREAS.
   (A)   The proclamation may prohibit obtaining access or attempting to obtain
access to any area designated in the manner described in this section, in
violation of any order, clearly posted notice, or barricade indicating that
access is denied or restricted.
   (B)   Areas to which access is denied or restricted shall be designated by
the Police Chief and his or her subordinates or other law enforcement officer
when directed in the proclamation to do so by the Mayor. When acting under this
authority, law enforcement officers may restrict or deny access to any area,
street, highway, or location within the town if that restriction or denial of
access or use is reasonably necessary to promote efforts being made to overcome
the emergency or to prevent further aggravation of the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 36.24) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.25 RESTRICTIONS TO MAINTAIN ORDER AND SAFETY.
   The proclamation may prohibit or restrict:
   (A)   Movements of people in public places;
   (B)   The operation of offices, business establishments, and other places to
or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate; and
   (C)   Other activities or conditions, the control of which may be reasonably
necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the state of
emergency, within the area designated in the proclamation.
(Prior Code, § 36.25) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, any person
violating any prohibition or restriction imposed by a proclamation authorized
by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction by
a fine not exceeding $50 or imprisonment not exceeding 30 days, as provided by
G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   A violation of § 36.23 shall be punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-
288.7.
(Prior Code, § 36.99) (Ord. 19, passed 1-9-1989)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Refuse required to be deposited in approved containers
   
50.02   Burning or burying garbage and refuse; permit required
   
50.03   Accumulation of garbage and refuse prohibited
   
50.04   Containers required; specifications
   
50.05   Pre-collection practices; requirements
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 REFUSE REQUIRED TO BE DEPOSITED IN APPROVED CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, or deposit any garbage
or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in approved
containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 BURNING OR BURYING GARBAGE AND REFUSE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to or bury any garbage for
the purpose of disposal.
   (B)   In addition, it shall be unlawful to bury any refuse for the purpose
of disposal unless a permit therefor has been granted by the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   All garbage and refuse shall be collected and placed in containers as
required by this section, and it shall be unlawful for any person to permit
garbage or refuse to accumulate or remain on any premises longer than is
reasonably necessary to remove and deposit same in approved containers as
required herein.
(Prior Code, § 50.03) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 CONTAINERS REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The occupant of every building or premises where garbage and refuse
does or may exist shall provide containers made of substantial galvanized iron,
plastic, rubber, or other non-rusting material in which shall be deposited all
garbage and refuse existing at that building or premises.
   (B)   Each container shall be provided with handles or bails and with a
tight-fitting cover made of the same material as the container.
   (C)   Only containers approved by the town’s contracted garbage service
shall be allowed for garbage and recycling pickup. The garbage and recycling
containers are to be 96-gallon containers. Lids on these containers must have
the ability to close fully and be watertight on day of pick up.
   (D)   All containers shall be kept in a reasonably clean condition.
(Prior Code, § 50.04) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All garbage and refuse shall have the liquid drained therefrom and
shall be wrapped in paper or other like material before it is placed in the
container for collection. Ashes and cinders shall be placed in a separate
container provided for that purpose, and no ashes shall be deposited in any
container until they are cold.
   (B)   Containers which fail to have a cover as required in §
50.04 above or which become rusted or broken and, therefore, are unable to
contain garbage and refuse in a satisfactory manner shall not be used.
   (C)   Containers placed for garbage and refuse collection shall be placed
for pickup not more than 24 hours prior to pickup and must be removed no longer
than 24 hours after pickup.
   (D)   When not in use, containers for use of trash and garbage pickup
collection shall not be stored in front of the building unless screened from
sight.
   (E)   (1)   No refuse for special collections shall be stored in plain sight
or at curb more than seven days prior to pickup.
      (2)   Any materials not picked up by special collection remains the
responsibility of the property owner.
   (F)   Only cans approved by the contractor’s service are allowed to be used
within town limits and all other cans will be collected to keep off road
rights-of-way. Any trash bagged or un-bagged left at curbside for pickup due to
loss of container for penalty or any reason will result in a littering charge
by code enforcement or law enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. 6-16-2014; Ord. passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
50.05 shall constitute an automatic $50 civil violation served to the owner of
the property or responsible party at the time the violation is observed.
      (1)   A $50 per day civil violation shall be issued for each day the
violation is not corrected.
      (2)   First offense is a warning notice with a 24-hour-to-correct grace
period. Second offense, impose penalty set forth in division (B)(1) above.
Third offense or failure to pay said penalty will lead to additional penalties,
in addition will result in loss of refuse can(s) until penalties are paid in
full and owner understands and agrees each offense following is penalty set
forth in division (B)(1) above or loss of refuse can(s).
(Prior Code, § 50.05) (Ord. passed 6-16-2014; Ord. passed 3-16-2020)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
70.15   Authority of Police and Volunteer Fire Department officials
   
70.16   Obedience to Police and Volunteer Fire Department officials
   
70.17   Police use of radar authorized
   
70.18   Applicability to authorized emergency vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles, see G.S. Ch. 20
   Municipal authority to regulate traffic, see G.S. § 160A-300
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Volunteer Fire Department,
police vehicles, and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments
or public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Police
Chief.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained, or used primarily
for the transportation of property.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Also, any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated
for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street
or roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. Every person who shall drive or who shall be in actual physical
control of the operation of any vehicle.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two highways which join one another at or approximately at right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      (2)   (a)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of that divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
         (b)   In the event the intersecting highway also includes two roadways
30 feet or more apart, then every crossing of two roadways of the highways
shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the streets which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time, as may be in current use in this
town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking, or device, not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the governing
body by a designated official having jurisdiction through authority given by
the governing body, for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting, or
guiding traffic upon the public streets and thoroughfares of the town.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically, or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, or to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   PARK. The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, co-partnership, association, or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every peace officer of the town, including every employee of
the town authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests for
any violations of the provisions of this title.
   PRIVATE ROAD or DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during the period of stopping.
   STOP or STOPPING.
      (1)   When required, means the complete cessation of movement of any
vehicle.
      (2)   When prohibited, means any stopping of any vehicle, except when
STOPPING means that it shall be necessary to stop the vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with direction of any peace officer of the
town or by reason of any traffic-control sign or signal or by reason of any
emergency.
   STREET and HIGHWAY. The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   The portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
      (2)   In the event that a highway includes two or more separate roadways,
the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any roadways separately but not
to all roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. The area or space officially set apart within any roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which space shall be so protected or
marked or indicated by visible and adequate markers or signs as shall be
visible at all times while so set apart as a SAFETY ZONE for pedestrians.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same when stop signs are erected as
provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles, and the like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of, or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the town.
   VEHICLE. Every device used in or upon, or by which any person or property is
or may be transported or drawn upon, any street within the corporate limits;
and for the purposes of this title any bicycle shall be deemed a VEHICLE.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or those
officers as are assigned by the Police Chief to enforce all traffic ordinances
and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department or those officers as are assigned by
the Police Chief are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, or
signal in conformance with traffic laws, provided that, in the event of a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers
of the Police Department may direct traffic as conditions may require,
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Volunteer Fire Department, when at the scene of a
fire, may direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 70.35) (Ord. 11, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or Volunteer Fire Department official.
(Prior Code, § 70.36) (Ord. 12, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 POLICE USE OF RADAR AUTHORIZED.
   The police force of the town is hereby authorized to use any and all radar
units available, within the corporate limits, and to arrest all persons
violating speed limits, based upon readings of the radar units.
(Prior Code, § 70.37) (Ord. 3, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 70.18 APPLICABILITY TO AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title regulating the operating, parking, and standing
of vehicles shall apply to AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES, as defined in this
chapter, except as provided under state law.
(Prior Code, § 70.38)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency vehicles, exemptions to right-of-way rules, see G.S. § 20-156
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate an ordinance or code provision regulating the
operation or parking of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for a criminal
summons and shall be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50.
(G.S. § 14-4(b))
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Traffic-Control Signs and Devices
   
71.01   Obedience to traffic-control devices; exceptions
   
71.02   When signs required for enforcement
   
71.03   Traffic-control signal legend
   
71.04   Flashing signals
   
71.05   Display of unauthorized signs, signals, or markings prohibited
   
71.06   Interference with official traffic-control devices prohibited
   
71.07   Traffic lanes
   
71.08   Zone of quiet
   
71.09   School zones
   
71.10   Yield signs
Driving Regulations
   
71.25   Speed limits; exceptions
   
71.26   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.27   Turning; signs; restrictions
   
71.28   Truck traffic restricted
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS AND DEVICES
§ 71.01 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated
on any sign, marker, or device for the control or direction of traffic erected
or placed in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter when so placed
or erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   This section shall not be construed to apply when the driver of a
vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer or when an exception is
granted to the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle under §
70.18.
(Prior Code, § 70.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 WHEN SIGNS REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   No provision of this subchapter for which signs are required shall be
enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged
violation, an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible
to an ordinarily observant person.
(Prior Code, § 70.16)
§ 71.03 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the
words, “Go,” “Caution,” or “Stop,” or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used, and the terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and pedestrians as follows.
   (A)   Green alone or “Go.”
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing this signal may proceed straight through
or turn right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn. But
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing this signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or “Caution,” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing this signal is hereby warned that the red
or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” signal is shown.
   (C)   Red alone or “Stop.”
      (1)   (a)   Vehicular traffic facing this signal shall stop before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then
before entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until the green or
“Go” signal is shown alone.
         (b)   Provided, however, that if a sign is not erected prohibiting
turns on red lights, then vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to
a complete stop.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” signal is shown alone, unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian
“Walk” signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing this signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing this signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or “Go” signal is shown.
      (3)   (a)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected
and maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application.
         (b)   Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
(Prior Code, § 70.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
   (A)   Flashing red (stop signal).
      (1)   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, and the right to
proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign.
      (2)   In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the crosswalk unless
and until the entry can be made with safety to other persons and property at
the place.
   (B)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed
through the intersection past the signal only with caution.
(Prior Code, § 70.18) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.05 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS, OR MARKINGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain, or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device, sign, or
signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides
from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic-control
device, sign, or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway, any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
(Prior Code, § 70.19) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.06 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device,
sign, or signal or any inscription, shield, or insignia thereon, or any other
part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 70.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 TRAFFIC LANES.
   When traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries of
any lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparatory to making
a lawful turning movement.
(Prior Code, § 70.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 ZONE OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating a zone of quiet, the person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall not sound the horn or any other
warning device, except in an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 70.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street or part thereof
as a school zone, drivers of motor vehicles using the street shall exercise the
greatest care for the protection of children.
(Prior Code, § 70.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 YIELD SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign erected at these
intersections shall, and in obedience to the sign, slow down and yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian crossing the roadway on which he or she is
driving and to any vehicle in movement on the main traveled or through street
or highway which is approaching so as to arrive at the intersection at
approximately the same time as the vehicle entering the main   traveled or
through street or highway.
(Prior Code, § 70.24) Penalty, see §
70.99
DRIVING REGULATIONS
§ 71.25 SPEED LIMITS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Speed limits. Except as otherwise provided in this title, it shall be
unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of 35 mph inside the town corporate
limits.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the speeds
listed below upon the streets or portions of streets of the state highway
system listed in each designated table set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I of this code:
         (a)   Twenty-five miles per hour, as designated in
Chapter 74, Schedule I, table (A); or
         (b)   Forty-five miles per hour, as designated in
Chapter 74, Schedule I, table (B).
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of 25 mph upon
the streets or portions of streets not a part of the state highway system,
listed in the designated schedule set forth in
Chapter 74, Schedule I, table (A) of this code.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   General 35 mph speed limit within municipal corporate limits, see G.S. § 20-
141
§ 71.26 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley,
there shall be signs giving notice thereof, and no regulation shall be
effective unless the signs are in place.
      (2)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
   (B)   Vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when
signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.27 TURNING; SIGNS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Turning markers. When authorized markers, buttons, or other
indications are placed within an intersection indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of the indications.
   (B)   Authority to place restricted turn signs.
      (1)   The Town Board shall determine those intersections at which drivers
of vehicles shall not make a right, left, or U-turn and shall place proper
signs at these intersections.
      (2)   The making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours of
any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the hours shall be plainly
indicated on the signs or they may be removed when the turns are permitted.
   (C)   Obedience to no-turn signs. Whenever authorized signs are erected
indicating that no right or left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle
shall disobey the directions of any sign.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.28 TRUCK TRAFFIC RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Through truck traffic shall be prohibited on all streets designated in
Chapter 74, Schedule II of this code, hereby made a part hereof; provided,
however, there shall be appropriate signs giving notice thereof, and none of
this type of regulation shall be effective unless those signs are erected and
in place at the time of any alleged offense.
   (B)   Emergency vehicles, including fire trucks and ambulances, are
expressly excluded from the provisions of this section.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TRUCKS. All trucks having more than two axles.
(Prior Code, § 71.04) (Ord. 16, passed 12-1-1987) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING AND STOPPING REGULATIONS
Section
General Parking Restrictions
   
72.01   Stand or park close to curb
   
72.02   Unattended vehicles
   
72.03   Stopping, standing, or parking prohibited; no signs required
   
72.04   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
72.05   Standing or parking for sale, maintenance, or storage prohibited
   
72.06   Stopping, standing, or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
72.07   Stopping, standing, or parking for purpose of advertising prohibited
   
72.08   Loading and unloading zones
   
72.09   Fire lanes
   
72.10   Violations; notice to be affixed
   
72.11   Summons to be issued
Parking Restrictions in Designated Areas
   
72.25   Application of regulations
   
72.26   Regulations not exclusive
   
72.27   Parking prohibited at all times in designated areas
   
72.28   Parking time limited in designated areas
   
72.29   Parking signs required
Required Stops
   
72.40   Designated through streets
   
72.41   Authority to erect stop signs
   
72.42   Intersections where stop required
   
72.43   Stop signs; standards
   
72.44   Vehicles to stop at stop signs
 
   
72.99   Penalty
GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS
§ 72.01 STAND OR PARK CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway on any street so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.01) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the engine or motor of any
motor vehicle running while it is standing parked upon the streets.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, whether attended
or unattended, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control
device, in any of the following places:
         (a)   On a sidewalk;
         (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (e)   On a crosswalk;
         (f)   Within ten feet of any intersection;
         (g)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (h)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
         (i)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (j)   Within 30 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance (when properly signposted);
         (k)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (l)   Within ten feet of the point of tangency between the driveway
opening and curb line of a residential driveway;
         (m)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (n)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (o)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; or
         (p)   Upon the paved or main traveled portion of any street or highway
open to the public for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
      (2)   In emergency situations when stopping a vehicle along a street or
highway is necessary, it shall be the duty of the operator to exercise
reasonable care to give adequate warning to approaching traffic of the presence
of the vehicle.
      (3)   This duty exists regardless of the reason for stopping the vehicle.
Temporary or momentary stopping when there is no intent to interfere with the
flow of traffic shall not be considered a violation of this division.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb any distance as is unlawful.
   (C)   Stopping, standing, or parking of any federal, state, or local
government vehicle along any road or highway while engaged in official
business, and with the proper warning devices activated, shall not be
considered a violation of this section.
   (D)   Maintenance and utility vehicles shall be permitted to park on the
side of roadways in a manner that leaves adequate room for other vehicles to
pass by. Traffic safety devices will need to be placed at each vehicle corner
(road side) for such parking by maintenance and utility vehicles. Owner of the
vehicle needs to be in sight of vehicle for the duration of the parking.
(Prior Code, § 72.03) (Ord. 4, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, in a manner or under any
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
or an area delineated as a travel lane for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 72.04) (Ord. 9, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 STANDING OR PARKING FOR SALE, MAINTENANCE, OR STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon any
street of the town for the principal purposes of:
   (A)   Displaying for sale;
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing the vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
   (C)   Storing by garages, dealers, or other persons when the storing is not
incidental to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other
vehicle; or
   (D)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has been
disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight from one
vehicle to another.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) (Ord. 8, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle in any place so designated.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING FOR PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising.
(Prior Code, § 72.07) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08 LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and
described by this title and when signs are placed, erected, or installed,
giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or
park any vehicle for any purpose or period of time except in accordance with
the requirements of this title.
   (B)   The streets, or parts thereof, are hereby designated as freight
loading and unloading zones, and no person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle
therein during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than
the expeditious loading or unloading of freight, equipment, or other goods and
then only for a period not to exceed one hour.
(Prior Code, § 72.08) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to park or leave a
motor vehicle or to place any other object, structure, or obstruction in a fire
lane.
   (B)   Fire lanes may be established by the Town Board in privately owned
public vehicular areas of shopping centers, hospitals, apartment complexes,
condominiums, or any other private parking area which is open to the public.
   (C)   The Fire Chief and Police Chief are hereby authorized to recommend the
establishment and the designation of fire lanes on private property to the Town
Board.
   (D)   Fire lanes may be designated on any surface, road, alley, or roadway
generally used for the movement or parking of motor vehicles, when the parking
of motor vehicles or other obstructions in that area would interfere with the
speed and efficiency of firefighting and emergency personnel or the proper
ingress and egress of emergency vehicles and equipment.
   (E)   Areas designated as fire lanes shall be clearly marked, with yellow or
other suitable color of paint, with the words “No Parking, Fire Lane,” and the
boundaries, borders, or curbs shall be clearly visible.
   (F)   A description of all fire lanes designated by the Town Board shall be
listed and kept on file in the Town Clerk’s office, which list is incorporated
herein and made a part of this code by reference.
(Prior Code, § 72.09) (Ord. 7, passed 12-8-1986; Ord. 18, passed 8-8-1988)
Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.10 VIOLATIONS; NOTICE TO BE AFFIXED.
   Whenever a member of the Police Department or other person charged by
ordinance or charter with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
regulating the parking of vehicles shall find that any of these provisions are
being or have been violated by the owner or operator of any vehicle, that
officer or person shall notify the owner or operator of the vehicle of the
violation, by conspicuously attaching to the vehicle a notice or citation,
which notice or citation shall require the owner or operator to pay the penalty
herein prescribed within seven days after the violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.35) (Ord. 13, passed 3-9-1987) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.11 SUMMONS TO BE ISSUED.
   Whenever any person who has been notified, as herein provided, to answer for
a violation of any ordinance of the town, shall fail or refuse to pay the
prescribed penalty, then a summons shall be issued charging that person with
the violation specified in the notice, and that person shall be tried in court
upon the summons in the regular order.
(Prior Code, § 72.36) (Ord. 13, passed 3-9-1987) Penalty, see §
72.99
PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN DESIGNATED AREAS
§ 72.25 APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the standing or parking of a
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 72.20) (Ord. 6, passed 12-8-1986)
§ 72.26 REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of this subchapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing, or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Prior Code, § 72.21) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.27 PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle
at any time upon any of the streets described in Schedule II, on file in the
office of the Town Clerk, which schedule is hereby incorporated by reference as
if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 72.22) (Ord. 5, passed 12-8-1986) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.28 PARKING TIME LIMITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or upon
any of the streets designated by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 72.23) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.29 PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever, by this or any other chapter, any parking time limit is
imposed or parking is prohibited in designated streets, there shall be
appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
   (B)   No parking regulations shall be effective unless the signs are erected
and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
(Prior Code, § 72.24) (Ord. 10, passed 12-8-1986)
REQUIRED STOPS
§ 72.40 DESIGNATED THROUGH STREETS.
   Streets and parts of streets as designated by the Town Board are declared to
be THROUGH STREETS for the purpose of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 71.15)
§ 72.41 AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street, there
shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting the through street
or intersecting a portion thereof described and designated as a through street
by any ordinance, unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times
by traffic-control signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of two
through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic
street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of
either of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 71.16)
§ 72.42 INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP REQUIRED.
   The Town Board may determine and designate intersections where particular
hazard exists upon other than through streets and may determine whether
vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any stop intersection, and
shall erect a stop sign at every place where a stop is required.
(Prior Code, § 71.17)
§ 72.43 STOP SIGNS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   Every sign erected pursuant to this subchapter shall bear the word
“Stop” in letters not less than eight inches in height and the signs shall, at
nighttime, be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or
by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements on the face of the sign.
   (B)   Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable at the nearest
line of the crosswalk on the side of the intersection or, if none, at the
nearest line of the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 71.18)
§ 72.44 VEHICLES TO STOP AT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection and indicated
by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or, in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly
marked stop line, or, if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting
roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway before entering the intersection.
   (B)   The driver, having stopped in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection, shall proceed cautiously, yielding the right-of-way to all
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are approaching the intersection.
(Prior Code, § 71.19) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or operator of any vehicle who has been notified of a
violation in the manner hereinbefore provided in §§
72.01 through
72.11 or 72.26 through 72.28 may, within the time specified in the notice, pay
the penalty in person or by mail at that place and time as may be designated in
the notice or citation.
      (2)   Any person properly notified of a violation of a town ordinance or
code provision regulating the parking of vehicles shall be responsible for
paying a penalty in the amount of $50.
(Prior Code, § 72.99) (Ord. 13, passed 3-9-1987)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Parental responsibility; applicability of regulations
   
73.02   Traffic laws apply
   
73.03   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.04   Riding on bicycles
   
73.05   Roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.06   Speed
   
73.07   Carrying articles
   
73.08   Riding on sidewalks; yield to pedestrians
Golf Carts
   
73.20   Purpose and authority
   
73.21   Liability disclaimer
   
73.22   Definitions
   
73.23   Liability insurance
   
73.24   Required equipment
   
73.25   Registration, inspection, and fee prior to usage
   
73.26   General operations
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Driving regulations, see §§
71.25 through
71.28
   General parking restrictions, see §§
72.01 through
72.11
   General regulations, see
Ch. 70
   Parking restrictions in designated areas, see §§
72.25 through
72.29
   Required stops, see §§
72.40 through
72.44
   Traffic-control signs and devices, see §§
71.01 through
71.10
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY; APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street or upon any public path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this title applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this subchapter and except as to those provisions of
laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic-control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make any turn, in which event the person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 73.05) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Prior Code, § 73.06) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle, or article
which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 73.07) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS; YIELD TO PEDESTRIANS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district of the town, where posted.
   (B)   The Police Chief is authorized to erect signs on any roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, and when these signs
are in place, no person shall disobey the signs.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, that person
shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
(Prior Code, § 73.08) Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 73.20 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the operation of golf carts on
any public street, road, or highway within the jurisdiction of the town under
the authority of G.S. § 160A-300.6, in order to provide certain limited safety
protections relating to golf cart operations, golf cart passengers, and other
users of streets and highways.
(Prior Code, § 75.01)
§ 73.21 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   The ordinance codified herein is adopted to address the interest of
public safety.
   (B)   Most golf carts are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
streets.
   (C)   The town in no way advocates or endorses their operation on public
streets.
   (D)   By establishing guidelines that regulate the use of golf carts, the
town is merely trying to address safety issues that may be pertinent to golf
cart usage.
   (E)   The adoption of the ordinance codified herein is not to be relied upon
as a determination that operation of golf carts on public streets is safe or
advisable even if done in accordance with this section.
   (F)   As with any other form of transportation, all persons who operate golf
carts or any other vehicle do so at their own risk and peril, and must be
observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others.
   (G)   The town has no liability under any theory of liability and the town
assumes no liability for permitting golf carts to be operated on public
streets.
(Prior Code, § 75.02)
§ 73.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A golf cart vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a
golf course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 mph in speed of movement.
   OPERATE. To drive or be in physical control of a golf cart on a public
street or in areas that are otherwise authorized by this subchapter.
   PUBLIC STREET.
      (1)   Any public street or road within the corporate limits of the town
open to the general public and whose posted speed limit is 25 mph.
      (2)   Cannot operate on any state-maintained road, such as U.S. Hwy 801,
except to cross at designated intersections.
   TOWN. The Town of Cooleemee, North Carolina.
(Prior Code, § 75.03)
§ 73.23 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   No golf cart shall be operated on any public road within the town
without liability insurance coverage being provided for that golf cart.
   (B)   Any person who owns a golf cart that is operated on the public streets
of the town shall be responsible for procuring liability insurance sufficient
to satisfy legal requirements required to operate a motor vehicle upon the
streets and roads of the state.
(Prior Code, § 75.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   In addition to all other requirements stated herein, all golf carts operated
within the town shall have the following equipment installed on the golf cart,
and said equipment shall be visible and/or operational at all times:
   (A)   A rearview mirror; and
   (B)   A triangle reflector at least 12 inches in height, located on the rear
of the golf cart.
(Prior Code, § 75.05)
§ 73.25 REGISTRATION, INSPECTION, AND FEE PRIOR TO USAGE.
   (A)   All golf cart owners must complete a golf cart registration form and
submit it to the Police Chief or his or her designated officer prior to being
eligible for an inspection.
   (B)   Prior to being operated within the town, a golf cart must be inspected
by the Police Chief or his or her designated officer.
   (C)   Upon successfully passing an inspection, the owner of the golf cart
will be given a registration card.
   (D)   Registrations may be issued at any time and will be good for one year.
   (E)   The registration card must be located on the golf cart at all times.
   (F)   Prior to receiving a golf cart registration card, the applicant must
produce proof of payment of the applicable golf cart registration fee and
provide proof of liability insurance at the level required to operate a motor
vehicle upon the streets and highways of the state.
   (G)   There will be a registration fee of $20.
(Prior Code, § 75.06)
§ 73.26 GENERAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Golf carts may be operated only from one hour after sunrise to one
hour before sunset.
   (B)   Golf cart drivers shall have a valid driver’s license and in no case
be under the age of 16.
   (C)   Golf cart drivers shall stay on the far right of the road and shall
yield to the right-of-way of overtaking vehicles.
   (D)   The maximum occupancy of a golf cart traveling on a public street
shall be one person per seat. The baggage/storage area that is typical on most
golf carts shall not be used as a passenger area.
   (E)   All applicable state laws concerning possession and use of alcoholic
beverages or any other intoxicating substances shall apply to golf cart drivers
and passengers.
   (F)   Golf carts shall be operated in accordance with all applicable state
and local laws. Golf carts will be subject to the same right-of-way,
maneuvering, and operating laws as those that apply to motor vehicles except as
otherwise noted herein.
   (G)   Golf carts may not be operated on public streets during inclement
weather unless the golf cart is equipped with a windshield, operating
windshield wipers, and headlights.
   (H)   No golf cart shall be operated at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent for the then existing conditions, and in no event at a speed
greater than 20 mph.
(Prior Code, § 75.07)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Violation of any provision of §§
73.20 through
73.26 shall constitute a misdemeanor. The maximum penalty for which shall be
$50.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, persons who, while driving a golf
cart on public streets within the town, violate the rules of the road
applicable to motor vehicles generally (as set forth in G.S. Chapter 20, Part
10) shall be subjected to the same penalties applicable to the operators of
such other motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 75.08) (Ord. passed 8-18-2014)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Truck traffic; prohibited streets
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   No vehicle shall travel at a speed of more than 25 mph on the
following streets.
 
Street                    Location                       Ord. No.  Date Passed
                          From a point 0.30 mile west of
SR 1116 (Marginal Street) NC 801, eastward to NC 801     290200020 8-18-2014
                          (Cooleemee Elementary School)
 
   (B)   No vehicle shall travel at a speed of more than 45 mph on the
following streets.
 
Street Location                                         Ord. No. Date Passed
       From the southern corporate limit of the town, a
       point approximately 0.24 mile south of Center
NC 801 Street (SR 1103), northward to the northern      -        6-13-1988
       corporate limit, a point approximately 0.21 mile
       north of Hickory Street (SR 1116)
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Schd. I) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. TRUCK TRAFFIC; PROHIBITED STREETS.
   Through truck traffic shall be prohibited on the following streets, provided
there shall be appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
 
Street      Location                                   Ord. No. Date Passed
            From the intersection of NC 801 to the
Main Street intersection of Junction Road and Marginal -        8-20-1996
            Street
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 74, Schd. II) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Administration and enforcement
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Liability disclaimer
   
90.04   Exceptions to application
Vehicle Removal and Disposition
   
90.15   Abandoned vehicle unlawful
   
90.16   Nuisance vehicle unlawful
   
90.17   Junked vehicle restricted
   
90.18   Vehicle removal; prior notice requirements
   
90.19   Exceptions to prior notice requirements
   
90.20   Vehicle removal; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.21   Right to probable cause hearing
   
90.22   Vehicle redemption
   
90.23   Unclaimed vehicle; disposition
   
90.24   Vehicle removal from private property; conditions
   
90.25   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
Statutory reference:
   Authority to abate public health and safety nuisances, see G.S. § 160A-193
   Authority to regulate abandonment of junked motor vehicles, see G.S. § 160A-
303.2
   Authority to remove and dispose of junked and abandoned motor vehicles, see
G.S. § 160A-303
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The Police Department and the Code Administrator shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police
Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be abandoned on the public streets and highways
within the town, and on property owned by the town.
      (2)   The Code Administrator shall be responsible for administering the
removal and disposition of abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicles
located on private property.
   (B)   The town may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck
operators or towing businesses to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned
vehicles, nuisance vehicles, and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this
chapter and applicable state laws.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the legal
authority or powers of officers of the Police Department and Volunteer Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, a motor
vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left on a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left on a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
      (3)   Is left on property owned or operated by the town for longer than
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZING OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the Code Administrator, respectively, designated to authorize the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term means a vehicle that does not display a current license plate lawfully
upon the vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $100.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land by self- propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats, or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods, and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste, or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Town Board.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.03 LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of any abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle for disposing of that vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.04 EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICATION.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle which is:
   (A)   Located in a bona fide automobile graveyard or junkyard as defined in
G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the Junkyard Control Act, G.S. §§ 136-141 et
seq.;
   (B)   In an enclosed building;
   (C)   On the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise; or
   (D)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the town.
(Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
VEHICLE REMOVAL AND DISPOSITION
§ 90.15 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow that vehicle to be ABANDONED as the
term is defined §
90.02.
   (B)   Upon investigation, proper authorizing officials of the town may
determine that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 90.15) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located, to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the Code Administrator may determine and declare
that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a NUISANCE VEHICLE as defined
in §
90.02, and order the vehicle removed.
(Prior Code, § 90.16) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.17 JUNKED VEHICLE RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located, to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   (1)   The Code Administrator may order the removal of a JUNKED MOTOR
VEHICLE as defined in §
90.02 after finding in writing that the aesthetic benefits of removing the
vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the private property owner.
   (C)   The finding shall be based on a balancing of the monetary loss of the
apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the public by promoting or
enhancing community, neighborhood, or area appearance. The following factors,
among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness, and emotional stability of
area residents.
(Prior Code, § 90.17) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 VEHICLE REMOVAL; PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.19 below, an abandoned, nuisance, or junked vehicle which is to be removed
shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of the vehicle was given.
      (1)   In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a junked motor vehicle, if the
names and mailing addresses of the registered owner or person entitled to the
possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which the vehicle is located can be ascertained in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given by first class mail.
      (2)   The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written record to
show the name(s) and address(es) to which mailed, and the date mailed.
      (3)   If the names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the vehicle
to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by affixing
on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a notice
indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the town on a specific date (no
sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed).
   (B)   The notice shall state that the vehicle will be removed by the town on
a specific date, no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed or
mailed, unless the vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to
that time.
   (C)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles, and junked motor vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if
the registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the
vehicle but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned,
a nuisance vehicle, or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, this appeal shall be
made to the Board of Commissioners in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Town Board, and further proceedings to remove the
vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Prior Code, § 90.18) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.19 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the
authorizing official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a
special need for prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to
otherwise maintain and protect the public safety and welfare. These findings
shall, in all cases, be entered by the authorizing official in the appropriate
daily records.
   (B)   Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice
include:
      (1)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on public
streets and highways, the Town Board hereby determines that immediate removal
of these vehicles may be warranted when they are:
         (a)   Obstructing traffic;
         (b)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
         (c)   Parked in a “No Stopping or Standing” zone;
         (d)   Parked in a loading zone;
         (e)   Parked in a bus zone; or
         (f)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions imposed
under code sections.
      (2)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles.
         (a)   With respect to abandoned or nuisance vehicles left on town-
owned property other than the streets and highways and on private property,
these vehicles may be removed without giving prior notice only in those
circumstances where the authorizing official finds a special need for prompt
action to protect and maintain the public health, safety, and welfare.
         (b)   By way of illustration and not limitation, those circumstances
include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to businesses and
residences, vehicles parked in a location or manner so as to pose a traffic
hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private property.
(Prior Code, § 90.19) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.20 VEHICLE REMOVAL; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the town, be removed to a storage garage or
area by the tow truck operator or towing business contracting to perform those
services for the town.
   (B)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
the authorizing town official shall immediately notify the last known
registered owner of the vehicle this notice to include the following:
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (C)   The town shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, including the information set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner’s last known address unless
this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his or her agent.
   (D)   If the vehicle is registered in this state, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in this state, notice shall
be given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the
vehicle.
   (E)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and the vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorizing town official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number, to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him or her of the information set forth in divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(5) above.
(Prior Code, § 90.20) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.21 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   (1)   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or
junked motor vehicle, the owner or any other person entitled to possession is
entitled to a hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed
for removing the vehicle.
      (2)   A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive these
hearing requests.
   (B)   The County Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt
of the request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 90.21) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.22 VEHICLE REDEMPTION.
   (A)   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fee, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of those fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle.
   (B)   Upon regaining possession of a vehicle, the owner or person entitled
to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow or engage in further
violations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.22) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.23 UNCLAIMED VEHICLE; DISPOSITION.
   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
the vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the town in accordance
with G.S. Chapter 44A, Article 1.
(Prior Code, § 90.23) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.24 VEHICLE REMOVAL FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   As a general policy, the town will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant, or lessee of that property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures.
   (B)   In no case will a vehicle be removed by the town from private property
without a written request of the owner, occupant, or lessee, except in those
cases where a vehicle is a nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which
has been ordered
removed by the Code Administrator.
   (C)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of an
abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle from private property to indemnify
the town against any loss, expense, or liability incurred because of the
removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Prior Code, § 90.24) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990)
§ 90.25 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility by the town any vehicle which has been impounded pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter unless and until all towing and impoundment fees
which are due, or bond in lieu of those fees, have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 90.25) (Ord. 21, passed 3-12-1990) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Purpose
   
91.002   Authority
   
91.003   Interpolation
   
91.004   Jurisdiction
   
91.005   Enforcement
   
91.006   Fees
   
91.007   Definitions
Impoundment
   
91.020   Investigations
   
91.021   Notice to owners
   
91.022   Certain animals exempt
Nuisance Animals
   
91.035   Defining nuisance animals
   
91.036   Animal noise
   
91.037   Offensive odors
   
91.038   Animal feces
   
91.039   Animals running at large
   
91.040   Exemptions to animals running at large
   
91.041   Trapping of nuisance animals
   
91.042   Complaint of nuisance animals
   
91.043   Nuisance animals when trapped
Farm Animals, Livestock, and Fowl
   
91.055   Fowl restricted
   
91.056   Keeping of farm animals, livestock, and fowl
   
91.057   Equines on sidewalks prohibited
   
91.058   Upkeep of stables
   
91.059   Slaughter of livestock prohibited
Confinement of Dogs
   
91.070   Identification of animals
   
91.071   Tethering of dogs and other animals
   
91.072   Temporary tethering
   
91.073   Methods of confinement
   
91.074   Fenced yards
   
91.075   Dog pens
   
91.076   Dog runs
   
91.077   Cable runs; trolley system
   
91.078   Shelters
Dangerous and Potentially Dangerous Dogs
   
91.090   Establishment
   
91.091   Enforcement personnel
   
91.092   Definitions
   
91.093   Registration and fees
   
91.094   Impoundment of dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs
   
91.095   Requirements for confinement
   
91.096   Keeping of the dangerous dog on property
   
91.097   Identification and warning signs
   
91.098   Construction standards of pen
   
91.099   Dangerous dogs in public
   
91.100   Potentially dangerous dogs
Banned and Exotic Animals
   
91.115   Exotic animals
   
91.116   Definitions
   
91.117   Banned animals list
   
91.118   Animals not listed
   
91.119   Seizure of animals
Animal Welfare and Shelter Standards
   
91.130   Cruelty to animals
   
91.131   Definitions
   
91.132   Self defense
   
91.133   Abandonment
   
91.134   Animal fighting
   
91.135   General statutes
   
91.136   Food and water standards
   
91.137   Shelter standards
   
91.138   Sick and diseased animals
   
91.139   Investigating officials
   
91.140   Dead animals
   
91.141   Guidelines for animal burial
Dog Litters
   
91.155   Regulation
   
91.156   Rules
   
91.157   Signs
 
   
91.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 PURPOSE.
   In order to ensure there is peace and quality of life for town residents and
for the welfare of animals owned within the corporate limits of the town, the
ordinance codified herein is enacted by power of the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
§ 91.002 AUTHORITY.
   The ordinance codified herein is adopted pursuant to the authority vested in
the town by G.S. §§ 67-4.5, 160A-174, 160A-175, 160A-182, and 160A-186, and any
other general statute of the state or any town ordinance hereafter mentioned in
this code.
(Prior Code, § 91.02)
§ 91.003 INTERPOLATION.
   This ordinance codified herein shall be formed by use of the state’s general
statutes or clauses or wording derived from said statutes and any other
creation of ordinance deemed necessary by the town to archive the stated
objective of this codified ordinance by any insertion and or removal from any
of the text or elements found in the state’s general statutes granted under
G.S. § 160A-174.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.004 JURISDICTION.
   The ordinance codified herein shall be in effect for the corporate limits of
the town.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)
§ 91.005 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement personnel.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners give power to the Code Enforcement
Administrator to enforce any and all sections of this chapter in unison with
any and all other town ordinances as a Nuisance Ordinance as granted by G.S. §
160A-175.
      (2)   The town also authorizes any town, county, or state law enforcement
official or entity to take action on any section of this chapter that may use
the powers of arrest, seizure, or issuance of citation or summons in any matter
regarding this codified ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
   (B)   Enforcement of ordinances.
      (1)   Granted by G.S. § 160A-175, any violation of this chapter is a
misdemeanor or infraction as noted herein.
      (2)   Any violation of this chapter is subject to fines or seizures and
civil or criminal prosecution as a Class 3 misdemeanor as noted herein.
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter may be abated by the Code Enforcement
Administrator after violation has been issued and prescribed time to correct
violation has expired.
(Prior Code, § 91.07)
   (C)   Enforcement of penalty. Enforcement of penalties shall be determined
through the use of §
91.999. Other means of penalty enforcement by state and county officials may
also be used.
(Prior Code, § 91.08)
§ 91.006 FEES.
   All fees incurred by any agency investigating a violation of this codified
ordinance shall be paid by the owner of the animal or animals being
investigated. This includes any impoundment fees, rabies tests, or spay and
neutering costs associated with any investigation by town, county, or state
officials.
(Prior Code, § 91.09)
§ 91.007 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions and terms used in this chapter are not limited to strict
interpretation of any particular source in the English language and not
beholden to any particular thesaurus. They are for the general purpose of
describing, identifying, or communicating the intent of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.20)
   ADEQUATE FOOD. Food given or changed on a daily basis that is consistent
with the type of food a certain animal normally consumes. Such food shall be
kept in a container or dish and reasonable arrangements shall be made to keep
food clean from dirt, debris, and vermin.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.12)
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structure specifically designed for an animal that is
kept outside of an owner’s residence. The structure will adequately shade the
animal from direct sunlight and shelter the animal from wind, rain, hot, and
cold weather. The structure shall be designed to be kept sanitary and built to
accommodate the size of the animal or animals using the shelter.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.14)
   ANIMAL. Any non-human or non-insect living, breathing organism.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.1)
   ANIMAL CRUELTY. Any intentional or non-intentional infliction of pain or
suffering or taunting or provocation towards an animal. An act of self defense
while under attack by an animal shall not be considered ANIMAL CRUELTY.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.16)
   ANIMAL FIGHTING. Any type of fighting between animals that has been
organized as a contest in animals which are trained or coerced to cause any
type of physical harm to other animals. Examples of ANIMAL FIGHTING may
include, but are not limited to, dog fighting or cock fighting.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.17)
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. A non-livestock or farm animal such as dogs or cats, small
mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fish.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.3)
   EXOTIC ANIMALS.
      (1)   Any animal normally found in the wild or normally thought of as a
danger to be in close proximity to.
      (2)   This list includes, but not limited to, the animals stated and the
class of animals that are within that specific genus: bears, wolves, lions,
tigers, and all other types of wild cats, any primate, dangerous reptile, and
any type of hybrid animal (partially domesticated through breeding), any other
nontraditional type of house pet, and any animal that is classified dangerous
or exotic in any state in the country.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.5)
   FRESH WATER. Water for consumption by an animal that is changed daily. In
cold months, water is kept from freezing. In warm months, it is kept from
stagnation. All water for an animal’s consumption shall be kept free of dirt
and debris.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.13)
   GUARD DOG. A dog specifically trained to guard a property or a person. These
dogs are further regulated under §§
91.090 and
91.999.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.9)
   HUNTING DOG. A dog bred or specifically trained to hunt for other animals
under the control of a handler or hunter.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.10)
   K-9 or MILITARY DOGS. A dog used for police or military operations. These
dogs are further regulated under §§
91.090 and
91.999.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.8)
   LIVESTOCK or FARM ANIMALS. Any type of equine (horse or donkey), bovine
(cattle), sheep, goats, llamas, swine, or fowl (chickens, ducks, or geese).
(Prior Code, § 91.20.4)
   OWNER. Anyone in possession or in control of or harboring on his or her
person or property, an animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.2)
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An act or omission of an act or a situation that effects
more than one person in the community and effects public interests in health,
safety, or transportation issues.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.11)
   SERVICE DOG OR ANIMAL. Any animal that is trained to help a human with a
physical or mental disability, such as a seeing eye dog for blind people, but
not limited to this function. Refer to §
91.022 for further uses, descriptions, and applications.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.6)
   TETHERING. The act of tying off onto a stationary object, rope, or restraint
device that is attached to an animal, such as a rope or a chain tied around a
dog’s neck and the rope or chain is attached to a pole or a tree.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.15)
   WORKING DOG. A dog that is trained for a specific type of function, such as
sheep herding or goose removal, but not limited to these functions.
(Prior Code, § 91.20.7)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 91.020 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Any animal involved in an investigation can be at the discretion of the
official investigating an ordinance violation, impounded for an unspecific
amount of time until the investigating official has concluded the
investigation. This matter of impoundment is set as per G.S. §§ 14-363.2, 19A-
70, and 130A-196, under the following circumstances.
   (A)   The investigating official has found evidence of animal cruelty or
neglect.
   (B)   The investigating official has captured an animal running at large.
   (C)   The investigating official has found an animal that is outlawed for
possession within town corporate limits.
   (D)   The investigating official has reason to believe an animal is
dangerous as per G.S. § 130A-196.
   (E)   The investigating official has found that an animal is not spayed or
neutered according to town ordinance.
   (F)   The investigating official has found evidence or suspects that an
animal has been used in a fighting contest.
   (G)   The investigating official has caught the animal in a trap that has
been set on someone other than the owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 91.10)
§ 91.021 NOTICE TO OWNERS.
   When an animal is impounded and the owner’s identity is known, the
impounding official shall notify the owner followed by a written notice. The
written notice shall state the following.
   (A)   The official shall notify the owner of the location of the animal.
   (B)   The official shall notify the owner of the violation of ordinance.
   (C)   The official shall notify the owner of any penalties or fees incurred
from the impoundment process.
(Prior Code, § 91.11)
§ 91.022 CERTAIN ANIMALS EXEMPT.
   This section shall exempt all service dogs or service animals, except those
objectively determined to pose a danger or potential danger to human safety as
set forth herein.
   (A)   Service dogs or service animals are those that are specially trained
for service to physically handicapped humans or those people who need an animal
due to a medical condition.
   (B)   Dogs or other animals in this class shall have valid paperwork
available for verification of their respective use.
   (C)   The paperwork must be from a legitimate accrediting agency, county,
state, or United States government.
   (D)   Any other animals falling into these categories that are not dogs
shall also have valid paper work certifying the animal’s purpose.
   (E)   Police K-9 dogs, military, and guard dogs kept in the town limits
shall adhere to the respective section of this codified ordinance classified
animal control.
   (F)   Hunting dogs shall not be exempt from any section for animal control
and welfare.
   (G)   Working dogs shall not be exempt from any section for animal control
and welfare.
   (H)   No other animals than those listed under exempt in this section shall
be exempt from any ordinance for animal control and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 91.12)
NUISANCE ANIMALS
§ 91.035 DEFINING NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   An animal shall be considered a nuisance if it is on other than its owner’s
property and is found in any of the following conditions, as per G.S. §§ 67-4.5
and 67-12:
   (A)   Running at large;
   (B)   Disturbing the peace with excessive, repetitive noise;
   (C)   On someone’s property other than its owner’s;
   (D)   Destroying someone’s property in any way;
   (E)   Defecating or urinating on someone’s property other than its owner’s;
and/or
   (F)   The animal is threatening someone.
(Prior Code, § 91.28)
§ 91.036 ANIMAL NOISE.
   When reported to or recognized by the Police Department or town officials,
an animal that habitually or repeatedly is disturbing more than one person
through frequent or continued sounds that the investigating officer or official
will recognize as unreasonable, the owner of that animal shall be issued a
citation as per G.S. §§ 15-A-302 and 160A-174(a).
(Prior Code, § 91.22)
§ 91.037 OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   When reported or recognized by the Police Department or town officials,
odors caused by animal waste or urine or any other odors caused by an animal
that emanates from an owner’s property into the public way and effects more
than one person shall be considered a public nuisance and a citation shall be
issued. If not corrected by the owner after the prescribed amount of time, the
town may abate the nuisance and charge the owner for abatement work and impose
additional fines for noncompliance, as per G.S. § 160A-174(a).
(Prior Code, § 91.23)
§ 91.038 ANIMAL FECES.
   When reported or recognized by the Police Department or town officials, the
accumulation of feces from animals on a property shall be an ordinance
violation.
   (A)   Waste removed daily. There shall not be more than one day of animal
waste per animal on any property. This shall be considered a public nuisance.
   (B)   Abatement. If not corrected by the owner after the prescribed amount
of time, the town may abate the nuisance and charge the owner for abatement
work and impose additional fines for noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § 91.24)
§ 91.039 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner of an animal to let that animal run free
without restraint in the town corporate limits.
   (A)   Citation. A citation shall be issued to the owner of the pet that is
caught running at large.
   (B)   Impoundment. An animal may also be impounded if the owner cannot be
located or if the animal has no identification or the animal repeatedly runs at
large or if the investigating officer has reason to believe the animal at large
has become a safety hazard to the community.
   (C)   Impoundment fees and fines. Owners of impounded animals shall pay any
and all fees and fines to the respective agency holding the animal before
regaining possession of the animal.
   (D)   Identification of animals. All animals put outdoors will have a collar
with an identification of owner tag. The name of the owner and address shall be
legible.
   (E)   Rabies vaccination tag. All animals needing rabies vaccination shall
have on their collar a rabies vaccination tag as per G.S. §§ 130A-190, 130A-
192, and 130A-196.
   (F)   Rabies vaccination and tags. All dogs, cats, and ferrets above the age
of six weeks shall be vaccinated for rabies and any other state-mandated
vaccinations as per G.S. §§ 130A-184, 130A-185, 130A-190, 130A-192, and 130A-
196.
   (G)   Tags. All dogs and cats shall have on their collars a current rabies
identification tag stating the animal is up to date on its vaccinations.
(Prior Code, § 91.25) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.040 EXEMPTIONS TO ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   Felines/Cats. Due to the nature of felines to roam from their owner’s
property in search of prey, a feline shall not be considered running at large.
   (B)   Conditions for felines outside.
      (1)   All felines/cats that are let outside shall be spayed or neutered.
      (2)   All felines/cats shall have a collar with an identification tag
showing the owner’s name and address.
      (3)   All felines/cats shall have a rabies vaccination tag affixed to the
collar.
(Prior Code, § 91.26)
§ 91.041 TRAPPING OF NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   A nuisance animal may be trapped and impounded by an officer investigating a
complaint of a nuisance animal.
   (A)   Reporting. The normal process for reporting a public nuisance is that
it shall affect at least two residents or be a public safety hazard.
   (B)   Cause for complaint. The criteria for cause of complaint can be met by
an animal trespassing on one’s property and causing one person discomfort.
   (C)   Guidelines for trapping. The town has instituted the following
guidelines for trapping and notification of ordinance infraction and fines to
owners of trapped animals: Before traps are placed, the owner of the property
shall be given, in writing, a copy of the code section dealing with trapping
and nuisance animal regulations, and shall give signature that he, she, or they
have read and understand this particular section. A copy of this notification
shall be kept with the original complaint and violation notice.
(Prior Code, § 91.29)
§ 91.042 COMPLAINT OF NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   (A)   An initial complaint must be filed with town or county animal control
officers.
(Prior Code, § 91.29.1)
   (B)   After a complaint has been filed, traps provided by the animal control
officer may be placed on the complainant’s property for a period of 48 hours in
order to trap the nuisance animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.29.2)
   (C)   If no trap is sprung after the 48 hours, the animal control officer at
his or her discretion can remove the traps and declare the complaint invalid.
      (1)   The animal control officer has the right not to place any traps at
that property for 90 days after the first complaint has been made if no animals
were trapped.
      (2)   It will be to the sole discretion of the animal control officer if
traps will be placed on that property before the 90-day time frame has expired.
(Prior Code, § 91.29.3)
§ 91.043 NUISANCE ANIMALS WHEN TRAPPED.
   (A)   If an animal is trapped, the owner of the property shall contact the
animal control officer immediately or the next business day to schedule removal
and impoundment of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.29.4)
   (B)   (1)   The owner of the property where the animal was trapped shall not
attempt to remove the animal that is in the trap.
      (2)   If the animal shows signs it has been abused while in the trap, the
owner of the property or person responsible for the complaint may be held
liable or charged with abuse of an animal and may be subject to fines and or
prosecution for cruelty to animals under town, county, or state guidelines.
      (3)   The investigating officer shall have sole discretion as to charge
anyone with abuse or cruelty to animals.
      (4)   Any trapped animals that are identified as being owned by someone
may be returned immediately to the owner at the discretion of the investigating
officer along with a citation or code violation notice for nuisance animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.29.5)
   (C)   The citation for a trapped nuisance animal shall state the following
items:
      (1)   A copy of the original complaint to the investigating official from
the property owner where the animal was trapped;
      (2)   The disposition of the trapped animal/condition and location of
where the animal is being held;
      (3)   Time and location where the animal can be retrieved from; and
      (4)   (a)   Amount of fine for violation.
         (b)   Fines for violation of this section follow the same guideline as
any other public nuisance violation.
(Prior Code, § 91.29.6)
FARM ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK, AND FOWL
§ 91.055 FOWL RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit domesticated ducks, geese,
chickens, or other fowl to remain on or in any of the streets or public places
at night or to run at large in the daytime.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.056 KEEPING OF FARM ANIMALS, LIVESTOCK, AND FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any hogs, cows, horses, goats,
sheep, or any other farm animals, including fowl, within the corporate limits
of the town, on any property less than two acres of land.
   (A)   In keeping any animal as provided above, the owners of such property
must collect and remove all waste materials from the property and deposit the
same in an approved compost or as otherwise authorized by law on a periodic
basis so as not to constitute a nuisance or odor.
   (B)   At no time shall the owner of such property allow such waste material
to drain, runoff, or be washed onto an adjoining property, into a drainage
ditch or steam creek, or other stormwater collection system or area.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.057 EQUINES ON SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any type of horse, pony, or mule to be
ridden, led, or permitted to run at large on the sidewalks within the town
corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.31)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to notify the owner,
keeper, or person in possession of any animal which is in violation of this
section to place the animal under proper confinement and control.
(Prior Code, § 91.31.1)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.058 UPKEEP OF STABLES.
   Every stable and place where cattle, horses, or other animals may be kept
shall be maintained at all times in a clean and healthful condition.
(Prior Code, § 91.32)
§ 91.059 SLAUGHTER OF LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to slaughter livestock within the town
limit at any time, unless properly zoned by the town and licensed by the state
as an abattoir, butchery, or other licensed facility where animals are
slaughtered in-doors for meat to be consumed by humans.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) Penalty, see §
91.999
CONFINEMENT OF DOGS
§ 91.070 IDENTIFICATION OF ANIMALS.
   All dogs and cats let outside shall have a collar and identification tag
displaying the owner’s name and address, along with a proper rabies vaccination
tag.
(Prior Code, § 91.36)
§ 91.071 TETHERING OF DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   The practice of tethering a dog to a stationary object on one’s
property is no longer legal in the town corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.37)
   (B)   Cats do not need to be tethered but must have the proper
identification and rabies shot tags on its collar when outside.
(Prior Code, § 91.37.3)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.072 TEMPORARY TETHERING.
   Temporary tethering of a dog’s leash may occur only while a dog is not on
its owner’s property or being walked and the owner must stop somewhere than his
or her own residence while walking that dog(s).
   (A)   (1)   The owner of the tethered dog must be on the property with the
dog at all times.
      (2)   If the owner of the dog leaves the dog at another property that is
not his or her primary residence, the dog shall not be tethered.
(Prior Code, § 91.37.1)
   (B)   If the owner of the dog leaves the dog in the care of the property
owner and leaves the property, the owner of the property must make
accommodations to lose the dog from the tethering device and control and keep
the dog in a manner consistent with §
91.073.
(Prior Code, § 91.37.2)
§ 91.073 METHODS OF CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   The confinement of dogs can be done in any of the manners listed in
this subchapter. Any other types of confinement not listed may be permitted
upon examination of the Code Enforcement Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 91.38)
   (B)   Approved methods are listed, any other methods must be reviewed by
code enforcement officials.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1)
§ 91.074 FENCED YARDS.
   The owner of a dog may so choose to install a fence to and/or around his or
her property as to confine the dog(s) to the owner’s property.
   (A)   All zoning and permit approval shall be met and approved before
installation of a fence.
   (B)   The fence must terminate at the end of the owner’s building and not
project past the front facade of any building on the property.
   (C)   The fence must be able to contain the dog(s) from leaving the owner’s
property.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.1)
§ 91.075 DOG PENS.
   (A)   The owner of a dog(s) may so choose to install a dog pen for his or
her dog(s). The pen must meet the required square footage for the weight and
number of the dog(s) confined in said pen.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.2)
   (B)   No pen shall be placed in front of or on the set back of any property
and no pens shall be placed in the front yard of a property.
      (1)   Zoning. All zoning and permit approvals shall be met before the
erection or installation of the pen or pens.
      (2)   Minimum space requirements for pens. Minimum requirements for space
in a dog pen shall be acquired by the weight of the dog(s).
      (3)   Dog’s weight.
         (a)   One pound to 20 pounds/min. 64 square feet;
         (b)   Twenty-one to 75 pounds/min. 80 square feet; and
         (c)   Seventy-six pounds and over/min. 100 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.3)
   (C)   An additional space of 50% of the space of square footage of pens
shall be added to the dimension of the dog pen for each additional dog that is
kept in the pen.
(Prior Code, § 91.39.1.4)
§ 91.076 DOG RUNS.
   A fenced area where the dog can run free, this area will be considered a run
when the length of the run is at least ten times larger than the width of the
run.
   (A)   The minimum square footage for a dog run shall be 90 square feet.
Therefore, making the minimum dimensions of a dog run three feet wide by 30
feet long.
   (B)   Only one dog over 35 pounds may occupy a dog run of minimum size.
   (C)   Two dogs under 35 pounds weight may occupy a minimum size dog run at
one time.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.5)
§ 91.077 CABLE RUNS; TROLLEY SYSTEM.
   A cable suspended in the air between two fix points with a leader that can
run back and forth along the suspended cable.
   (A)   Location. A cable/trolley run may not be installed in the front yard
of a property.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.6)
   (B)   Dimensions.
      (1)   A cable/trolley run must be minimum ten feet long and can be as
long as desired so long as to not extend beyond the owner’s property line at
any point.
      (2)   The cable for the run must be suspended at a minimum height of six
feet from the grade level.
      (3)   The leader part or leash that runs along the cable shall not be
less than six feet long and can be as long as desired so long as to not extend
beyond the owner’s property line at any point.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.7)
   (C)   Weight tolerances.
      (1)   The hardware used in construction of the cable/trolley run shall be
of sufficient strength to weight ratio of the animal so that animal cannot
break loose from the cables while exercising or running.
      (2)   The code enforcement officer shall make final determination of
construction of cable/trolley run and can ask for verification of strength of
the hardware if not satisfied that such hardware is of sufficient strength and
proper construction.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.8)
   (D)   Collar type. The end of the leader which attaches to the animal shall
not have a choke or pinch type collar attached to it, but shall be of a normal
type restraint collar with no choking or pinch type design.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.9)
§ 91.078 SHELTERS.
   (A)   Access to food, water, and shelter. The use of any system of
containment shall not prohibit the animal from access to food, water, or
shelter.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.10)
   (B)   Shelter in confinement area. The use of a shelter for the animal in
the confinement area shall not affect any dimensional sizes required for the
confinement area.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.11)
   (C)   Maintenance of shelters. It shall be a violation of this section to
keep animal shelters in disrepair.
(Prior Code, § 91.38.1.12)
Penalty, see §
91.999
DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 91.090 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The town, under authority of G.S. §§ 67-4.1, 67-4.2, 67-4.3, 67-4.4, 67-4.5,
and 130A-196, will establish an ordinance for the identification and handling
of dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs. All sections of above referenced
statutes shall be wholly used to establish this subchapter, with G.S. § 67-4.5,
providing the town to adopt its own specific section of ordinance to use in the
town. The following sections in this subchapter shall be specific to the town
ordinance for dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs.
(Prior Code, § 91.40)
§ 91.091 ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   The town grants any state, county, or town law enforcement personnel
as well as town code enforcement officials the power of enforcement of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 91.40.1)
   (B)   Upon a complaint received of a dangerous dog, the town, county, or
state officials shall investigate and make a report and determination of a
dangerous dog and take necessary actions to detain, impound, or secure the dog
from the community until proven the animal is not dangerous.
(Prior Code, § 91.40.2)
§ 91.092 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions in G.S. § 67-4.1 are adopted by the town.
(Prior Code, § 91.40.3)
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that, without provocation, has killed or inflicted
severe injury on a person. Please refer to G.S. § 67-4.1 for further
description of DANGEROUS DOG.
(Prior Code, § 91.40.4)
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
      (1)   A dog that has inflicted a bite on a person that resulted in broken
bones or disfiguring lacerations or required cosmetic surgery or
hospitalization.
      (2)   A dog that has killed or inflicted severe injury upon a domestic
animal when not upon the owner’s real property.
      (3)   A dog that has approached a person, when not on the owner’s
property, in a vicious or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
Please refer to G.S. § 67-4.1 for further descriptions.
(Prior Code, § 91.40.3)
§ 91.093 REGISTRATION AND FEES.
   (A)   A dangerous dog shall be registered with the Town Clerk before the dog
can be returned to the owner.
   (B)   There is a onetime registration fee of $500 to be paid to the Town
Clerk before return of the dangerous dog from impoundment or at the time of
notification by investigating officials that the dog has been determined to be
dangerous.
   (C)   Proof of a liability insurance policy that guarantees coverage up to
$500,000 for any damages and injuries caused by the dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog must be provided as a condition of the registration, in order to
ensure that potential victims will have adequate access to medical treatment at
the expense of the owner’s insurer, in keeping with G.S. § 67-4.4, which
imposes strict liability on the owner of a dangerous dog for civil damages to
persons and property.
(Prior Code, § 91.40.4)
§ 91.094 IMPOUNDMENT OF DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   When an investigating official has made the determination that a dog is
either dangerous or potentially dangerous, that dog shall be impounded
immediately and taken to the nearest shelter that will accept the dog.
(Prior Code, § 91.41)
   (A)   Surrender of dog. At any time during an investigation of an owner’s
dog being deemed either dangerous or potentially dangerous, the owner of said
dog may surrender all rights to ownership of the dog to investigating
officials.
(Prior Code, § 91.41.1)
   (B)   Liability. Surrender of a dog during an investigation does not relieve
the owner of the dog from liabilities and or penalties that have been incurred
by the dog’s actions previous to the investigation.
(Prior Code, § 91.41.2)
   (C)   Return of dog to owner. The dog will be held until the investigating
officials can make determination if the dog can be safely returned to the owner
or the dog warrants being euthanized.
(Prior Code, § 91.41.3)
   (D)   Conditions for return of dog to owner. The dog may not be returned to
the owner until the investigating official has determined that all the
requirements for keeping a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within the
corporate limits of the town have been met. Refer to §
91.095 for requirements.
   (E)   Registration fees.
      (1)   There is a onetime registration fee of $500 to be paid to the Town
Clerk before return of the dangerous dog from impoundment or at the time of
notification by investigating officials that the dog has been determined to be
dangerous.
      (2)   Proof of a liability insurance policy that guarantees coverage up
to $500,000 for any damages and injuries caused by the dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog must be provided as a condition of the registration, in order to
ensure that potential victims will have adequate access to medical treatment at
the expense of the owner’s insurer, in keeping with G.S. § 67-4.4, which
imposes strict liability on the owner of a dangerous dog for civil damages to
persons and property.
(Prior Code, § 91.41.4)
§ 91.095 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   If the owner of a dog that has been declared dangerous is to receive
his or her dog(s) back from impoundment, the owner shall follow the guidelines
and requirements set forth in this section for keeping such dog in the
corporate limits of the town:
(Prior Code, § 91.42)
   (B)   The dog shall not be released to the owner unless, and until the
property at where the dog shall be kept, is inspected by town code enforcement
officials and all provisions of this section have been met and approved by the
officials as per G.S. §§ 67-4.2, 67-4.5, and 130A-196.
(Prior Code, § 91.42.1)
§ 91.096 KEEPING OF THE DANGEROUS DOG ON PROPERTY.
   The property where a dangerous dog shall be kept shall adhere to all
prescribed standards as set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.43)
   (A)   Approval from official.
      (1)   The code enforcement officials shall determine and control the
approval of any modifications, adjustments, or special circumstances regarding
the installation and maintenance of any required changes or alterations to an
owner’s property where a dangerous dog is kept.
      (2)   Proof of a liability insurance policy that guarantees coverage up
to $500,000 for any damages and injuries caused by the dangerous or potentially
dangerous dog must be provided as a condition of the registration, in order to
ensure that potential victims will have adequate access to medical treatment at
the expense of the owner’s insurer, in keeping with G.S. § 67-4.4, which
imposes strict liability on the owner of a dangerous dog for civil damages to
persons and property.
(Prior Code, § 91.43.1)
   (B)   Pen standards enforced. The dangerous dog shall have a pen constructed
according to standards set forth in §
91.098.
(Prior Code, § 91.43.2)
   (C)   Space required. If the code enforcement official has determined that
there is no physical space on the property for a dog pen to be built, the code
enforcement official shall notify the owner of the dog in writing that it
cannot be brought back and kept in the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 91.43.3)
   (D)   Confinement of dangerous dog on owner’s property.
      (1)   A dangerous dog at no time shall be allowed to roam free on its
owner’s property while outside.
      (2)   The dog shall be kept in the pen that has been designated for its
confinement while outside the owner’s physical house.
      (3)   The dog may stay inside the owner’s physical house and not be
confined, but the owner must keep inside of his or her house, a cage to keep
the dog temporarily if the owner has to open any doors for visitors.
      (4)   The code enforcement official shall inspect the cage and determine
if the cage is of sufficient strength and size to accommodate the dog.
      (5)   It shall be the owner’s responsibility to cage their dangerous dog
before answering the door or letting any visitors into the house.
(Prior Code, § 91.43.4)
§ 91.097 IDENTIFICATION AND WARNING SIGNS.
   A property where a dangerous dog is kept shall have a sign on any door that
can be entered from or that opens to the outside or a public way, with the
words “Warning Dangerous Dog.”
(Prior Code, § 91.44)
   (A)   Public ways. Any area at the property where a dangerous dog is kept
that can be approached by the public right-of-way shall have a sign posted
every 20 linear feet.
(Prior Code, § 91.44.1)
   (B)   Property lines. Any area of the property where a dangerous dog is kept
that meets a property linear, a public right-of-way, and is not protected by a
fence shall have in that area a sign, “Warning Dangerous Dog,” posted every 20
linear feet.
(Prior Code, § 91.44.2)
   (C)   Sign specifications for “Warning Dangerous Dog” signs.
      (1)   The sign shall be in lettering four inches or larger.
      (2)   The sign shall be a minimum of one square foot in dimensions.
      (3)   The sign lettering shall contrast the background color of sign.
      (4)   The sign background color shall be white or yellow.
(Prior Code, § 91.44.3)
   (D)   Signage on pen. The pen shall have on all sides, a sign that reads
“Warning Dangerous Dog.”
(Prior Code, § 91.46)
   (E)   Sign specifications. Sign specifications shall follow division (C)
above.
(Prior Code, § 91.46.1)
§ 91.098 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS OF PEN.
   (A)   The pen shall be a minimum of 80 square feet in dimension.
   (B)   The pen shall be made from steel cyclone fencing material with
openings no larger than two and three-fourths inches wide.
   (C)   The height of the fence shall be no less than six feet high.
   (D)   The top of the pen shall be fully enclosed with fencing materials
similar to pen materials.
   (E)   The inner area of the pen shall have a concrete surface a minimum of
three and five-eighths inches in thickness.
   (F)   The bottom section of fencing shall be embedded into the concrete
surface in order that the dog may not dig or scratch its way out of the pen.
   (G)   The pen shall have a minimum of one entry gate a minimum of five feet
high by 18 inches wide.
   (H)   All gates on pens shall have self-closing and self-locking mechanisms.
   (I)   All gates shall also be equipped with a provision to padlock the gate.
   (J)   All gates shall be padlocked when dog is in the pen.
   (K)   Provisions for food and water shall be made for the dog while it is in
the pen.
   (L)   A shelter inside of the pen shall not require an increase in the size
of the pen unless more than one dog is in the pen at the same time.
   (M)   If more than one dog is sharing the same pen, the minimum square
footage for the pen shall be increased 100 square feet.
   (N)   The pen shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition and shall not
have more than one day’s dog waste in the pen at any time.
(Prior Code, § 91.45)
§ 91.099 DANGEROUS DOGS IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   A dangerous dog shall be considered in public when it is not on its
owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 91.47)
   (B)   When a dangerous dog is in public, the owner shall follow the
guidelines set forth in division (C) below for the control of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 91.47.1)
   (C)   (1)   While in the public, the owner of the dog must keep the
dangerous dog muzzled with a suitably designed and approved device.
      (2)   While in the public, the owner of the dangerous dog shall have the
dog in a four-point harness restraint suitably designed and approved.
      (3)   Muzzles and harnesses shall not be homemade and shall be labeled
and listed by the manufacturer.
(Prior Code, § 91.47.2)
§ 91.100 POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   When a dog has been determined to be potentially dangerous by an
investigating official, the following regulations shall apply to that dog as
per G.S. § 67-4.1.
(Prior Code, § 91.48)
   (A)   Confinement of potentially dangerous dogs. A dog determined to be
potentially dangerous by an investigating official shall be kept in a pen while
not in the owner’s house.
(Prior Code, § 91.48.1)
   (B)   Pen specifications.
      (1)   The pen shall be a minimum of 80 square feet.
      (2)   The pen shall be constructed of cyclone fence material.
      (3)   The pen shall have a self-closing and self-locking gate mechanism.
      (4)   The pen shall be inspected and approved by the town code
enforcement official before the dog shall be returned to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 91.48.2)
   (C)   Control in public. The potentially dangerous dog when in public shall
follow all guidelines as set forth in §
91.099(C).
(Prior Code, § 91.48.1)
BANNED AND EXOTIC ANIMALS
§ 91.115 EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   Exotic animals that are inherently dangerous or poisonous to humans shall be
banned from ownership in the corporate limits of the town as per G.S. §§ 160A-
187, 14-417, 14-4171, 14-4172, 14-419, and 14-422.
(Prior Code, § 91.49) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.116 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Any animal normally found in the wild and that is not
normally domesticated or that is objectively considered dangerous to be in
close proximity to. This also includes any hybrid or partially domesticated
animal from cross-breeding or any other type of nontraditional type of house
pet that is such classified anywhere in the United States.
   INHERENTLY DANGEROUS. Any animal that is objectively considered to be
dangerous or poisonous while in close proximity to humans.
   THREAT TO COMMUNITY. If the investigating officer discovers an animal that
is not listed as exotic or on the banned animals list and objectively finds
that the animal could potentially harm a human or other animal, that animal may
be deemed by the officer a threat to the community.
(Prior Code, § 91.49.1)
§ 91.117 BANNED ANIMALS LIST.
   The following animals shall not be kept within the town corporate limits:
   (A)   Any type of lion, tiger, panther, leopard, jaguar, or any type of cat
that is normally considered exotic, other than a domestic house cat;
   (B)   Any type or breed of wolf, coyote, or jackal, other than a
domesticated dog;
   (C)   Any type of bear;
   (D)   Any type of non-human primate;
   (E)   Any type of venomous snake or lizard;
   (F)   Any type of snake capable of constricting around a child or adult and
causing serious injury or death; and/or
   (G)   Any type of crocodile or alligator.
(Prior Code, § 91.50) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.118 ANIMALS NOT LISTED.
   The town has the right to ban any other animal not identified in §
91.117 at will, as long as there is sufficient evidence that an animal may
cause harm to a human or an animal or that it has been objectively determined
by an investigating official that it could be a threat to the community.
(Prior Code, § 91.50.1)
§ 91.119 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Immediate seizure of animals. Animals not listed as exotic or deemed
inherently dangerous or a threat to the community may be immediately seized by
the investigating official or animal control officers as follows, per division
(B) below.
(Prior Code, § 91.50.2)
   (B)   Seizure and impoundment of exotic or inherently dangerous animals.
      (1)   The town has the right to immediate seizure and impoundment of any
type of exotic or inherently dangerous animal(s) that have been identified as
such by the investigating official as per G.S. §§ 14-419, 14-422, and 67-4.5.
      (2)   The animal(s) may be taken from the property at which they were
found and taken by the animal control officer to an appropriate holding
facility and shall not be returned to the corporate limits of the town as per
G.S. §§ 14-419, 14-422, and 67-4.5.
(Prior Code, § 91.51)
   (C)   Time held. The animals shall be held till the owner can make safe
arrangements for animals at another place than in the town corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.51.2)
   (D)   Notification. Notification of impounded animals shall be referred to
in §§
91.020 and
91.021.
(Prior Code, § 91.52.3)
ANIMAL WELFARE AND SHELTER STANDARDS
§ 91.130 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   The town shall use for this subchapter all state general statutes listed,
with the addition of the town’s own specific ordinance and sections. G.S. § 14-
360 shall be the legal definition of CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
(Prior Code, § 91.60)
§ 91.131 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING. Any type of fighting between animals that has been
organized as a contest or otherwise being viewed as a contest in which animals
are trained or coerced to cause any type of physical harm to other animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.60.5)
   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS. The term herein is defined by G.S. § 14-360 in its
entirety.
(Prior Code, § 91.60.1)
§ 91.132 SELF DEFENSE.
   An act of self defense while under attack by an animal shall not be
considered animal cruelty.
(Prior Code, § 91.60.2)
§ 91.133 ABANDONMENT.
   It shall be a violation of this section for anyone to abandon an animal in
the town, as per G.S. § 14-361.1.
(Prior Code, § 91.60.2) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.134 ANIMAL FIGHTING
   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to aid or abet animal
fighting to take place anywhere in the town corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.60.3) Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.135 GENERAL STATUTES.
   The town has adopted G.S. §§ 14-362, 14-362.1, 14-362.2, and 19A-70 to be
used in governing this section for animal cruelty and animal fighting.
(Prior Code, § 91.60.4)
§ 91.136 FOOD AND WATER STANDARDS.
   The following listed standards shall be adhered to for owners of animals in
the town corporate limits.
(Prior Code, § 91.61)
   (A)   Food standard.
      (1)   Food given or changed on a daily basis that is consistent with the
type of food a certain animal normally consumes.
      (2)   Such food shall be kept in a container or dish while feeding the
animal.
      (3)   Reasonable arrangements shall be made to keep the food clean from
dirt, debris, and vermin.
(Prior Code, § 91.61.1)
   (B)   Fresh water standard. Water for consumption by an animal shall be
changed daily.
(Prior Code, § 91.61.2)
      (1) Water shall be changed and kept from freezing.
      (2)   Water shall be kept from stagnating in warm weather.
      (3)   All water for consumption by animals shall be kept free from dirt
and vermin.
(Prior Code, § 91.61.3)
§ 91.137 SHELTER STANDARDS.
   It shall be a violation of this section to not give adequate shelter to an
animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.62)
   (A)   Definition. ADEQUATE SHELTER is a structure specifically designed for
an animal that is kept outside of the owner’s residence.
(Prior Code, § 91.62.1)
   (B)   Structure design criteria. The structure shall adequately shade the
animal from direct sunlight and shelter the animal from wind, rain, and hot and
cold weather.
(Prior Code, § 91.62.2)
   (C)   Size of shelter.
      (1)   The shelter shall be built so as to accommodate the size of the
animal(s) that will use the structure.
      (2)   No structure shall be more than twice the size of the animal(s)
occupying the structure.
(Prior Code, § 91.62.3)
   (D)   Sanitary conditions. All shelters shall be kept in a clean, sanitary
condition.
(Prior Code, § 91.63)
   (E)   Ground contact.
      (1)   All shelters shall be elevated off of the ground by a minimum of
three and one-half inches to prevent moisture and vermin from entering the
structure.
      (2)   Ground contact section shall be waived if owner chooses to use a
plastic shelter with a lip that will not readily permit water to penetrate the
shelter.
(Prior Code, § 91.64)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.138 SICK AND DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   It is the owner’s responsibility to effectuate the proper veterinarian
care for all animals under the owner’s care as per G.S. §§ 106-402 and 130A-
198.
(Prior Code, § 91.65)
   (B)   An owner, if found in violation of this section, may be charged with a
Class 3 misdemeanor and be subject to fines and costs associated with an
investigation.
(Prior Code, § 91.65.1)
   (C)   The owner of the animal(s) is obliged to pay for any veterinarian fees
of an impounded animal(s) before the animal(s) are released back to the care of
the owner.
(Prior Code, § 91.65.2)
   (D)   If the owner of the impounded animal does not pay the veterinarian the
fees for medical services, the veterinarian may seek to put the animal for
adoption to new owners or dispose of accordingly by state law.
(Prior Code, § 91.65.4)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.139 INVESTIGATING OFFICIALS.
   (A)   An investigating official has the right to immediately impound or
quarantine an animal and seek medical help for that animal if any of the causes
exist in the following sections of this codified ordinance:
      (1)   If an investigating official has determined or suspects that an
animal(s) is infected with a communicable disease that humans or animals can
contract through contact or being in close proximity to, and the owner does not
have that animal under veterinary care; and/or
      (2)   If an investigating official has determined or suspects that an
animal(s) is sickly and is not under the care of a veterinarian.
(Prior Code, § 91.66)
   (B)   (1)   The investigating official shall determine the release of the
animal back to the owner.
      (2)   The investigating official does not have to release the animal back
to the owner until the investigation is completed.
(Prior Code, § 91.67)
§ 91.140 DEAD ANIMALS.
   The burial of a family pet shall be allowed under the following guidelines
as per G.S. § 106-403 and town ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 91.68)
§ 91.141 GUIDELINES FOR ANIMAL BURIAL.
   (A)   The animal shall be buried on the owner’s property.
   (B)   Before digging on the property, the owner shall notify underground
utility companies through the One Call system.
   (C)   The animal shall be buried within 24 hours of its death.
   (D)   The animal shall not be buried in the front yard of the property.
   (E)   The animal shall not be buried within 300 feet of a free flowing
stream or a public body of water.
(Prior Code, § 91.69)
   (F)   If the owner cannot comply with this section, the animal must be
removed from the town limits within 24 hours of its death and properly disposed
of.
   (G)   If the owner of the dead animal has no means of disposal, the owner
must contact town or county officials in order to make arrangements for
officials to dispose of the dead animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.69.1)
DOG LITTERS
§ 91.155 REGULATION.
   Dog litters shall be regulated by this subchapter as per G.S. § 67-4.5 and
town ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 91.70)
§ 91.156 RULES.
   (A)   The owner of multiple dogs shall not at any time have more than one
litter of pups on his or her property.
   (B)   There shall not be a pregnant dog on the property while another dog’s
litter is being weaned.
(Prior Code, § 91.71.2)
   (C)   Pups at six weeks shall have all their necessary inoculations,
paperwork, and collars with identification of owner tags and rabies vaccination
tags.
(Prior Code, § 91.72.3)
   (D)   Puppies shall not be placed outside of a house unless pups are secured
in a pen type structure capable of keeping puppies in the general vicinity of
each other and making them incapable of escape.
(Prior Code, § 91.72.4)
   (E)   If pups are outside of the owner’s residence in a pen, all provisions
for food and water and shelter shall be enforced.
(Prior Code, § 91.72.5)
Penalty, see §
91.999
§ 91.157 SIGNS.
   There shall be no advertisements for “Sale of Puppies” or “Free Puppies”
placed on the property or on any other property in the town corporate limits
that is enforced by zoning or any other provisions of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 91.72.6)
§ 91.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   All violations against §§
91.035 through
91.043 are classified as a Class 3 misdemeanor, punishable by no more than 20
days imprisonment or a fine not to exceed $500, as per G.S. §§ 14-3 and 14-4,
unless otherwise noted as an infraction defined in G.S. § 14-3.1.
      (1)   Penalty.
         (a)   First offense. Fifty dollar citation, payable within 15 days of
the offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued as
per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
         (b)   Second offense. One hundred dollar citation, payable within 15
days of the offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be
issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
         (c)   Third offense. Three hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
         (d)   Fourth offense. Four hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303./14-4.
         (e)   Fifth offense. Five hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (2)   Offense threshold. All five violations must occur within same
calendar year and all citations shall be recorded with the Police Department or
town officials.
      (3)   Remedy for offenses. After a second citation in a calendar year, it
will be apparent to the town that citations and fines will not resolve or
correct the public nuisance complaints. Therefore, a criminal summons shall be
issued to the violator to appear before a judicial official for third and
subsequent violations.
(Prior Code, § 91.21)
   (C)   A violation of §
91.056 will result in the following.
      (1)   First offense. Fifty dollar citation, payable within 15 days of the
offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued as per
G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (2)   Second offense. One hundred dollar citation, payable within 15 days
of the offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued
as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (3)   Third offense. Three hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (4)   Fourth offense. Four hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (5)   Fifth offense. Five hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
(Prior Code, § 91.30.1)
   (D)   All violations against the Animal Control section of this codified
ordinance are classified as a Class 3 misdemeanor, punishable by no more than
20 days imprisonment or a fine not to exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 91.35)
      (1)   First offense. Fifty dollar citation, payable within 15 days of the
offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued as per
G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (2)   Second offense. One hundred dollar citation, payable within 15 days
of the offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued
as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (3)   Third offense. Three hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (4)   Fourth offense. Four hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (5)   Fifth offense. Five hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
(Prior Code, § 91.35.1)
   (E)   A violation of §
91.139 will result in the following.
      (1)   First offense. Fifty dollar citation, payable within 15 days of the
offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued as per
G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (2)   Second offense. One hundred dollar citation, payable within 15 days
of the offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued
as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (3)   Third offense. Three hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (4)   Fourth offense. Four hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (5)   Fifth offense. Five hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
(Prior Code, § 91.65.3)
   (F)   Violation of §
91.140 constitutes an infraction of said section and is punishable by a $10
fine as per G.S. § 14-3.1.
(Prior Code, § 91.68.1)
   (G)   A violation of §§
91.156 and
91.157 will result in the following.
      (1)   First offense. A fifty dollar citation, payable within 15 days of
the offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued as
per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (2)   Second offense. One hundred dollar citation, payable within 15 days
of the offense. After an additional 30 days, a criminal summons may be issued
as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (3)   Third offense. Three hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (4)   Forth offense. Four hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
      (5)   Fifth offense. Five hundred dollar citation, with a criminal
summons issued as per G.S. § 15a-303/14-4.
(Prior Code, § 91.71)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Noise
   
92.01   Unnecessary noise unlawful
   
92.02   Prohibited noises; list not exclusive
   
92.03   Exceptions; permit requirements
   
92.04   Denial of permit
Weeds and Refuse
   
92.15   Uncontrolled weeds and accumulation of refuse; nuisance
   
92.16   Complaint; investigation required
   
92.17   Complaint and notice of violation
   
92.18   Failure to abate; abatement by town
   
92.19   Procedure is alternative
   
92.20   Duty of property owner or occupant
Fire Prevention
   
92.35   Adoption of State Fire Code
   
92.36   Open burning regulated
   
92.37   Burning of structures regulated
 
   
92.99   Penalty
NOISE
§ 92.01 UNNECESSARY NOISE UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to create or
assist in creating any unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels in the town
that impacts persons and properties by being audible outside the property of
the source of the sound, and audible within at least 100 feet of the source of
sound.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. 2, passed 7-14-1986; Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1991)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 PROHIBITED NOISES; LIST NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The following activities, among others, are hereby declared to be
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels, but this enumeration shall not be
deemed exclusive:
   (A)   The playing of any musical instrument or electronic sound
amplification equipment in a manner or with such volume, so that it impacts
persons and properties by being audible outside the property of the source of
the sound, and audible at least 100 feet from the source of the sound;
   (B)   The keeping of any animal or bird which makes frequent or long
continued sounds, so that a reasonably prudent person would recognize that it
impacts persons and properties by being audible outside the property of the
source of the sound, and audible at least 100 feet from the source of the
sound;
   (C)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle, or vehicle so out of repair, so
loaded, or in a manner so as to create unreasonably loud sounds that disturb
the quiet enjoyment of persons in the town that impacts persons and properties
by being audible outside the property of the source of the sound, and audible
at least 100 feet from the source of the sound;
   (D)   The operating of any garage or service station in any residential area
so as to cause unreasonably loud, disturbing sounds to be emitted between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day that are audible outside the
immediate property boundaries of said garage or service station;
   (E)   The creation of unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels adjacent to
any school, educational facility, church, or house of worship during normal
operating hours, that impacts persons and properties by being audible outside
the property of the source of the sound, at least 100 feet from the source of
the sound and which a reasonably prudent person would recognize as likely to
unreasonably interfere with the working of those institutions, provided
conspicuous signs are displayed indicating that the area is a school,
educational facility, church, or house of worship;
   (F)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration, or repair
of any building in a residential or business district other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on any day, except in the case of urgent
necessity in the interest of public safety, and then only under the direction
of an appropriate town official;
   (G)   The use of any electronic sound amplification equipment for conveying
a message for advertising, solicitation, religious, or political purposes,
except with an appropriate permit;
   (H)   Specific times shall be designated for sound amplified equipment and
it shall not be allowed between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.;
   (I)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile,
motorcycle, bus, or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger
signal if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control, or if in
motion, only as a danger signal; the creation by means of any herein described
signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such
a device for an unnecessary period of time;
   (J)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises
therefrom;
   (K)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (L)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with loading or
unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates,
and containers; or
   (M)   Any shouting and crying that disturbs the quiet and peace of the
neighborhood, that it impacts persons and properties by being audible outside
the property of the source of the sound, and audible at least 100 feet from the
source of the sound.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS; PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Persons wishing to engage in activities regulated by this subchapter
may do so when a specific permit is approved by the Town Board.
   (B)   Applications shall be submitted on forms supplied by the town.
   (C)   The permit shall not be unreasonably withheld, and may contain
appropriate conditions designed to minimize the disruptive impact. Permits for
this type of activity will not be unreasonably withheld based upon any
distinction between commercial, religious, or political nature of the proposed
message in keeping with the Reed v. Gilbert ruling (United States Supreme Court
decision from June 18, 2015), and will only be subject to restrictions based
upon time, place, and manner. Permits issued under this section may specify
that the permission granted will continue for a stated period or until revoked
after actual notice.
   (D)   Exceptions include sounds for call to worship by houses of worship
including bells and chimes, and permitted outside events.
   (E)   Persons shall not be held in violation of this subchapter when acting
in conformity with permit conditions, but any permit may be revoked if it is
determined that the authorized activity has resulted in generation of
unreasonably loud, disturbing sound levels.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   In case an application is denied, a permit is approved with conditions
unacceptable to the applicant, or a permit is revoked, the applicant or permit
holder shall be entitled to a prompt, informal hearing with the Town Board upon
submission of a written request for which a written decision will be given to
the applicant within three business days of receipt of said written request.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by a matter regulated by this subchapter may
submit to the Manager Clerk written comments, including requests for
appropriate relief, for which a written decision will be given to the applicant
within three business days of receipt of said written request.
(Prior Code, § 93.04) (Ord. 23, passed 11-11-1991; Ord. passed 7-20-2015)
WEEDS AND REFUSE
§ 92.15 UNCONTROLLED WEEDS AND ACCUMULATION OF REFUSE; NUISANCE.
   The existence of any of the following conditions on any vacant lot or other
parcel of land within the corporate limits is hereby declared to be dangerous
and prejudicial to the public health or safety and to constitute a public
nuisance:
   (A)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
ten inches above the surrounding ground provided that the following shall not
be considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs,
cultured plants, natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties, and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants;
   (B)   Any trees or shrubbery that shall interfere with or endanger the use
of the public streets; interfere with or obstruct illumination of streetlights,
obscure sight distance, or create a traffic hazard; interfere with the
visibility of any traffic-control device or sign; obstruct or impair the free
passage of pedestrians on sidewalks; project into or overhang town sidewalks or
other town or state rights-of-way at a vertical clearance of less than seven
feet; or endanger the life, health, safety, or property of the public;
   (C)   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, or junk in yards or on front
porches causing or threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or
threatening to cause the accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or
threatening to cause the inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin
of any kind, which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public health
and general welfare. These include, but are not limited to mattresses, boxes,
paper, garbage, trash such as cans, bottles, and similar items, refuse, brush,
old clothes, rags, or any other combustible materials or objects of a like
nature;
   (D)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health in yards or on front porches;
   (E)   The open storage, in yards or on the front porch of any abandoned
icebox, refrigerator, stoves, or any other household appliances, household
items unrelated to outdoor reasonable porch activity, broken glass, building
materials not approved by the town’s code enforcement officer for an upcoming
construction project to be accomplished within a reasonable time period,
building material rubbish, or similar items;
   (F)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Department;
   (G)   Accumulation in an open place of hazardous or toxic materials and
chemicals;
   (H)   No open storage or accumulation on front porches of automobile tires
and tubes, engine blocks, or other automotive parts of any kind; no storage of
gasoline, kerosene, or outdoor cooking grills of any type; lawn mowers and
outdoor power lawn care tools; exercise equipment such as weight benches and
bar bells; no large trash receptacles as those used for curbside garbage pickup
or recycle bins;
   (I)   (1)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned, or otherwise partially destroyed, and which is unsightly or hazardous
to the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard, or which is
structurally unsound to the extent that the code enforcement officer can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises.
      (2)   No laundry clothes lines may be installed in front yards or on
front porches; wood used for indoor fireplaces or heating systems will be
seasonably limited on front porches to a pile of split logs, three feet long by
two feet high and 30 inches deep, stacked at one end of the porch from October
1 through May 1.
   (J)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water;
   (K)   A vehicle on public or private property that is determined and
declared to be a health or safety hazard, public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height;
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from inside, such
as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass.
   (L)   The outside or outdoor use of any furniture originally intended for
interior use such as, but not limited to, couches, sofas, chairs, recliners,
indoor carpet, or other like items.
(Prior Code, § 93.15) (Ord. 20, passed 3-13-1989; Ord. passed 9-19-2011; Ord.
passed 8-14-2014; Ord. passed 12-15-2014; Ord. passed 3-16-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.16 COMPLAINT; INVESTIGATION REQUIRED.
   The Code Administrator, upon notice from any person of the possible
existence of any of the conditions described in §
92.15, shall cause to be made by the appropriate County Health Department
official, or town official, investigation as may be necessary to determine
whether conditions exist which may constitute a public nuisance as declared
above in §
92.15.
(Prior Code, § 93.16) (Ord. 20, passed 3-13-1989)
§ 92.17 COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   (1)   When any condition in violation of this section is found to
exist, the Code Administrator, or such persons as may be designated by the Town
Board, shall give notice to the owner of the premises to abate or remove such
conditions within seven days.
      (2)   Such notice shall be in writing, shall include a description of the
premises sufficient for identification, and shall set forth the violation and
state that if the violation is not corrected within seven days, the town may
proceed to correct the same as authorized by this section.
      (3)   Further, if a violation is determined to be a repeat offense (any
additional violation of the same nature, on the same property, with the same
owner, within 180 days of the previous warning citation), the code officer will
abate the violation without further notice to the owner, and all expenses
incurred thereby shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property
and shall be collected as taxes and levies are collected. For a third offense
within a 180-day period, the penalty set forth in §
10.99 will begin on day one with any and all fees/penalties due upon town self-
abatement.
      (4)   All such expenses shall constitute a lien against the property on
which the work was done.
   (B)   Service of such notice shall be by any one of the following methods:
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner;
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his or her last known address with postage prepaid thereon; or
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 93.17) (Ord. 20, passed 3-13-1989; Ord. passed 3-16-2020)
§ 92.18 FAILURE TO ABATE; ABATEMENT BY TOWN.
   If the owner of any property fails to comply with a notice given pursuant to
this section, within ten days after the service of such notice, he or she shall
be subject to prosecution for violation of this section in accordance with law
and each day that such failure continues shall be a separate offense. In
addition, the Town Board may have the condition described in the notice abated,
removed, or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred thereby shall be
chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall be collected as
taxes and levies are collected. All such expenses shall constitute a lien
against the property on which the work was done.
(Prior Code, § 93.18) (Ord. passed 8-15-2006) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter nor any of its provisions shall be
construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and
declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings or otherwise; nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein
prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in
other ordinances or laws.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies provided herein, any violation of the
terms of this subchapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and
remedies, either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
92.99.
   (C)   All expenses incurred by the town in removing or otherwise remedying a
public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of that lot or parcel of land,
and it shall be the duty of the County Tax Collector to mail a statement of
these charges to the owner or other person in possession of the premises with
instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
(Prior Code, § 93.19) (Ord. 20, passed 10-19-2004)
§ 92.20 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty of the person occupying, owning, or having control of
property abutting on a street or highway right-of-way that utilizes a portion
of unused street or highway right-of-way that utilizes as a yard or any other
use to maintain said right-of-way in the same character and manner as the
abutting use.
(Prior Code, § 93.20) (Ord. passed 10-19-2004)
FIRE PREVENTION
§ 92.35 ADOPTION OF STATE FIRE CODE.
   The most current edition of the State Fire Code is hereby adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Fire Prevention Code for
the town. An official copy of the code shall be kept on file in the office of
the Town Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 92.01)
§ 92.36 OPEN BURNING REGULATED.
   (A)   Burning is prohibited on Sunday.
   (B)   Burning is prohibited within the right-of-way and in any ditches.
   (C)   Fire is to be constantly attended by a competent adult person, 18
years of age or older, until such fire is extinguished. The person attending
the fire shall have a garden hose connected to a water supply or other fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use at the fire location.
   (D)   The Fire Chief and/or the County Fire Marshal may prohibit the
issuance of any or all outdoor burn permits when atmospheric conditions or
local circumstances make burning hazardous.
   (E)   Nothing shall be burned that will give off toxic fumes such as rubber
tires, paint, plastics, and the like.
   (F)   Fire will be extinguished if wind speed is in excess of ten mph.
   (G)   If rental property, written permission from
property management or the owner is required, prior to issuance of a burn
permit.
   (H)   Burning hours are 8:00 a.m. until at least one hour before sunset as
defined by the official sunset times.
   (I)   Burning shall be allowed only during daylight hours. No fires shall be
started prior to 8:00 a.m. All fires must be completely extinguished, with no
smoldering one half-hour before official sunset.
   (J)   All other open burning for the disposal of material generated as a
result of a natural disaster, such as tornado, hurricane, flood, or other
purpose, shall be in accordance with the regulations as set forth in NCAC Title
15A, Chapter 2D, § 1903.
   (K)   All trees, stumps, brush, and other vegetation resulting from clearing
of land for roads, building lots, houses, and other buildings shall not be
burned or buried in the town but shall be removed from the town and properly
disposed of.
   (L)   Applicant hereby agrees to fully indemnify the town, the Fire Chief,
and the town’s elected and appointed officials, agents, and/or employees
against all liability, damages, loss, claims, demands, costs and attorney’s
fees proximately resulting from any outdoor burning pursuant to this permit,
whether or not such burning complies with the conditions set out above.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37 BURNING OF STRUCTURES REGULATED.
   Due to the close proximity of dwellings and other structures, as well as any
potential hazard to adjoining properties and structures within the town, the
intentional burning of any structure is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
92.01 through
92.04 and §§
92.15 through
92.20 shall be subject to the penalties as set forth in §
10.99, however, no notice of violation is required to be issued and a civil
citation may be issued immediately to the violator.
(Prior Code, § 93.99)
   (C)   Any person found in violation of §
92.36 shall be issued a civil citation and $50 penalty by a police officer. Any
person found in violation of §
92.37 shall be issued a civil citation and $500 penalty by a police officer.
The violator will immediately cease the violation. Due to the nature of such
violations, a notice of violation is not required to be mailed or issued to the
violator and no additional time is required to be given. In addition to the
remedies provided herein, any violation of the terms of this chapter shall
subject the violator to the penalties and remedies, either criminal or civil or
both, as set forth in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 92.04)
(Ord. passed 1-24-2006)
CHAPTER 93: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Permit required; exceptions
   
93.03   Grounds for denial of permit
   
93.04   Requirements and issuance of permits
   
93.05   Prohibited activity
   
93.06   Revocation of permits
   
93.07   Interference prohibited
   
93.08   Picketing
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention of
the assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition, or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks, or other public
grounds or places.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any position or promotion of the persons, or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(Prior Code, § 94.50)
§ 93.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct, or
participate in any parade, picket line, or group demonstration in or upon any
street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place within the town unless a permit
therefor has been issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(Prior Code, § 94.51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The Police Chief shall not issue a permit if he or she finds that:
   (A)   The parades, picket lines, or group demonstrations are to commence
before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
   (B)   The parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time
and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the Police Chief or his or her designee;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers to properly police the line of movement of the parade
and of contiguous areas so that adequate police protection cannot be provided
to the remainder of the town;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances so that adequate ambulance service to portions of the town
so occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented;
   (F)   The concentration of persons, animals, and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (G)   The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence
to persons or property causing serious harm to the public;
   (H)   The parade is to be held for the primary purposes of advertising a
product, good, or event, and is designed to be held primarily for private
profit; or
   (I)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot
be provided to the town.
(Prior Code, § 94.52)
§ 93.04 REQUIREMENTS AND ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Police Chief or his or her designee shall issue permits as
required in the preceding section.
   (B)   In the issuance thereof, he or she shall:
      (1)   Require a written application for a permit to be filed not less
than 30 days in advance of the parade, picket line, or group demonstration,
which application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any
picket line and the time, place, route, and duration of any parade or group
demonstration;
      (2)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
      (3)   Require that the application for a permit specify, and the permit
shall designate, the person or persons in charge of the activity. The person
shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line, or group demonstration
and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The permit shall not
be valid in the possession of any other person.
(Prior Code, § 94.53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of any parade, picket line, or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks, or flashlights,
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon; and/or
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, unleashed.
(Prior Code, § 94.54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The Police Chief shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket line,
or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
93.05; or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 94.55)
§ 93.07 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede, or interfere with any parade,
picket line, or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Police Chief.
(Prior Code, § 94.56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.08 PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations.
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks or other areas
reserved for pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a
street used primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   (1)   Not more than three pickets promoting the same objective shall
be permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any
time; provided, if pickets promoting different objectives desire to use
sidewalks in the same block for picketing and this use would result in the
presence of more than three pickets thereon.
      (2)   The Police Chief shall allot time to each group of pickets for the
use of sidewalks on an equitable basis, but each group shall be permitted to
picket subject to the provisions of this chapter at least once every two hours.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided the words used are not defamatory in nature, or
would not tend to produce violence.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
(Prior Code, § 94.57) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
110.01   Sale of alcoholic beverages limited on Sundays
   
110.02   Police Chief to recommend suitability of permit candidates
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES LIMITED ON SUNDAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to sell or offer
for sale any beer, wine, or malt beverages within the boundaries of the town
from 6:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. on Sundays.
(Prior Code, § 110.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 POLICE CHIEF TO RECOMMEND SUITABILITY OF PERMIT CANDIDATES.
   The Police Chief is hereby designated to notify the State Alcoholic Beverage
Control Commission of the recommendations of the town regarding the suitability
of persons and locations for ABC permits within its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
110.01 above shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in accordance with the provisions of §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
CHAPTER 111: ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pool Rooms
   
111.01   Purpose and authority
   
111.02   Application required
   
111.03   Responsibility of applicant
   
111.04   Revocation of approval
   
111.05   Rules of operation
   
111.06   Prohibited conduct
   
111.07   Alternative measures
   
111.08   Conflict with other provisions
Game Rooms
   
111.20   Purpose
   
111.21   Definition
   
111.22   License required
   
111.23   Restrictions
   
111.24   Prohibited conduct
   
111.25   Rules of operation
   
111.26   Revocation of license
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of places of amusement, see G.S. § 160A-181
POOL ROOMS
§ 111.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted the town in G.S. § 160A-181 to
regulate places of entertainment and amusement, the purpose of the citizens of
town by licensing and regulating places of entertainment and amusement, such as
but not limited to, pool and billiard halls, dance halls, carnivals, circuses,
and other similar establishments of entertainment and amusement.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, a PLACE OF ENTERTAINMENT OR
AMUSEMENT is defined as any business or establishment which houses, operates,
contains, provides, or otherwise principally makes available to the public,
including private, membership establishments, directly or indirectly, pool
tables, video games, mechanical games, pay devices for which charges are made,
directly or indirectly.
   (C)   Examples, by way of illustration and not illustration and not
limitation, are business or establishments including pool halls, billiard
halls, amusement centers, bowling alleys, video game rooms, and other similar
entertainment or amusement centers.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every billiard parlor, pool hall, game room, bowling alley, or other
similar amusement facility which houses or operates one or more pool tables or
bowling alleys, three or more video or mechanical games, any pay devices or
combination of video and mechanical games for which charges are made, either
directly or indirectly shall comply with the application requirements of this
subchapter.
   (B)   No person, partnership, corporation, or association shall operate such
amusement establishment, as herein described, without first completing the
required application from the town prior to operating such establishment in the
jurisdiction of the town.
   (C)   Every application as prescribed herein shall be made upon an approved
application form provided by the town and filed with the Town Clerk.
   (D)   Every application shall be completed in its entirety providing the
following required information:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual person(s):
         (a)   Name of applicant(s);
         (b)   Residence address; and
         (c)   Phone number of applicant(s).
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership, corporation, or association:
         (a)   Name of agent making application;
         (b)   Agent’s residence address;
         (c)   Agent’s mailing address (if different);
         (d)   Agent’s phone number;
         (e)   Name of partnership, corporation, or association the agent
represents; and
         (f)   Name and address of all persons having any legal or beneficial
interest in the application.
      (3)   The physical and mailing address of the premises where the
entertainment or amusement facility is located;
      (4)   A complete statement of any convictions, of any person required to
be listed on the application, for any felony, gambling law violation, violation
of any statute, law, ordinance, or regulation of any governmental unit
concerning the operation of a game room or other entertainment or amusement
facility;
      (5)   A complete statement of any suspensions or revocations, by any
governmental unit, of any license to operate a game room or other amusement
facility, held by any person required to be listed on the application; and
      (6)   A description of any other business to be operated on the same or
adjoining premises owned, operated, or controlled by any person required to be
listed on the application.
   (E)   (1)   The application and any attachments will be submitted to the
Police Department, the Volunteer Fire Department, and the Zoning Administrator
or Code Official for review and report.
      (2)   The reports will be returned to the Town Clerk within 30 days from
the date of application.
      (3)   If there are no derogatory comments in the report, the Zoning
Administrator may approve the application.
      (4)   If there are derogatory comments in the report, which are
determined to be violations of the standards of this section, the application
shall be disapproved.
      (5)   The applicant may resubmit application to the Zoning Administrator
within 90 days if the reasons for disapproval have changed.
   (F)   (1)   Application approval in accordance with this section shall
become void if the applicant moves or ceases operating the entertainment or
amusement facility at the location described in the approved application.
      (2)   An approved application is not transferable from one person,
partnership, corporation, or association to another, nor is it transferable
from one location to another.
      (3)   In all such situations, a new application must be submitted and
approved by the reviewing parties as described above prior to occupying any
location as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 111.02)
§ 111.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF APPLICANT.
   The acts and conduct of agents and employees of the applicant in the conduct
and operation of an entertainment or amusement facility under this subchapter
shall be deemed the acts and conduct of the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 111.03)
§ 111.04 REVOCATION OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   The approved application to operate an entertainment or amusement
facility under this subchapter may be revoked after a hearing for which the
applicant shall be given reasonable notice of said hearing.
   (B)   Said notice of hearing shall be by regular mail or in person to all
persons or entities as listed in the application.
   (C)   Upon the hearing and giving the applicant an opportunity to be heard,
the Board of Commissioners may revoke the approval of the application if
determination is made that:
      (1)   The applicant(s) has violated and/or failed to comply with any
zoning, Building Code, Fire Code, or the provisions of this subchapter;
      (2)   The applicant or his or her agents employ or permit the facility to
be operated by a person who has previously had an application revoked by the
town to operate a facility under this subchapter or held a comparable license
issued by a competent local or state authority in this state or elsewhere and
has had that license revoked for reasons which would be sufficient grounds for
revocation under this subchapter;
      (3)   The applicant, agent, or other party having interest in the license
has been convicted of any crime involving gambling, any felony, or violations
of G.S. §§ 14-177 through 14-202.1, Article 26;
      (4)   Any employee of the entertainment or amusement facility has been
convicted of any felony in connection with his or her employment, any crime
involving gambling, including but not limited to violations of G.S. §§ 14-177
through 14-202.1, Article 26; and
      (5)   If after such hearing as required above, the Board of Commissioners
determines that a second violation of the provisions of this subchapter has
occurred, the approval to operate an entertainment or amusement facility under
this subchapter shall be revoked immediately.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 RULES OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No entertainment or amusement establishment as authorized under this
subchapter shall be operated or otherwise open for business except in
accordance with the following hours:
      (1)   On Monday through Saturday, the establishment shall be allowed to
open no earlier than 8:00 a.m.;
      (2)   On Sunday, the establishment shall open no earlier than 1:00 p.m.;
      (3)   On Sunday through Thursday night, the establishment shall close no
later than 10:00 p.m.;
      (4)   On Friday and Saturday night, the establishment shall close no
later than 12:00 a.m.; and
      (5)   No persons other than the owner, operator, or employees shall be
permitted in or on the premises from the required time of closing to 7:00 a.m.
the following morning.
   (B)   No play on any table, alley, machine, or other game shall be allowed
during the hours when the premises are required to remain closed by this
section.
   (C)   Every billiard parlor, pool hall, game room, or similar entertainment
or amusement facility shall be located only on the ground floor of the building
and have a fully unobstructed transparent plate glass window or windows located
in those parts of the building facing any street so that a clear view of the
full interior of the facility shall be visible from the street.
   (D)   There shall be no obstacle, paint, frosted glass, curtains, blinds,
partitions, machines, equipment, or any article installed, placed, or
positioned on or near the front glass, at any location along the store front,
interior or exterior, or anywhere within the facility so as to obstruct, block,
or inhibit the clear view of the entire interior of the facility either from
the exterior of the facility or by any person entering the facility.
   (E)   The interior and exterior of the facility, including the parking lot,
shall be sufficiently lighted during the hours of operation to provide a clear
unobstructed view of the facility and the activities within.
   (F)   No partitions forming rooms, stalls, or other enclosures where the
public congregates shall be permitted; provided, however, that this shall not
be constructed so as to prohibit maintenance closets, restrooms, or toilet
stalls.
   (G)   There shall not be permitted or maintained any open or secret
connections through doors, windows, trap doors, hidden doors, panels,
stairways, or other devices which provides for the concealment or access to any
place where gambling or other illegal activity is conducted or where persons
meet to congregate for immoral purposes.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any applicant or their employees under this section
to:
   (A)   Suffer, permit, or allow any gambling or game of chance on the
premises at any time, the sale or use of any racing, football, or other parlay
cards or gambling boards or devices on the premises;
   (B)   Suffer, permit, or allow the premises to become disorderly, permit any
profane, obscene, or indecent language thereon;
   (C)   Suffer, permit, or allow any alcoholic beverages or narcotic drugs to
be sold, kept, held, consumed, or brought into or on the premises; and/or
   (D)   Knowingly employ in the operation of such amusement facility any
person who has been convicted of a felony.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 ALTERNATIVE MEASURES.
   (A)   Nothing in this subsubchapter nor any of its provisions shall be
constructed to impair or limit in any way the power of the town to define and
declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings or otherwise. Nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein
prevent the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in
other ordinances or laws.
   (B)   In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of the
terms of this subsubchapter shall subject the violator to the penalties and
remedies, either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 111.07)
§ 111.08 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard, or requirement of this subchapter is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of
the town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town’s jurisdiction shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 111.08)
GAME ROOMS
§ 111.20 PURPOSE.
...missing material...
(Prior Code, § 111.20)
§ 111.21 DEFINITION.
...missing material...
(Prior Code, § 111.21)
§ 111.22 LICENSE REQUIRED.
...missing material...
(Prior Code, § 111.22)
§ 111.23 RESTRICTIONS.
...missing material...
(Prior Code, § 111.23)
§ 111.24 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
...missing material...
(Prior Code, § 111.24)
§ 111.25 RULES OF OPERATION.
...missing material...
(Prior Code, § 111.25)
§ 111.26 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
...missing material...
(Prior Code, § 111.26)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Registration
   
112.03   Door-to-door activities prohibited
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of solicitations and itinerant merchants authorized, see G.S. §
160A-178
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale the goods, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells
or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided, however,
that any person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of
evading the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels from place to place taking or offering to
take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services
to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is
collected in advance; and any person who uses or occupies any building or
premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering to take orders for the sale
of goods for future delivery or for personal services to be performed in the
future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is collected in advance.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises; provided, however, that no person shall be relieved from complying
with the provisions of this chapter merely by conducting a transient business
in association with any permanently established merchant.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Each and every person doing business in the town as a peddler,
solicitor, or transient vendor shall file a statement with the Town Clerk, on a
form to be provided for the purpose.
   (B)   This statement shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the individual filing the statement;
      (2)   Name and address of the principal or employer if the individual is
an agent or employee;
      (3)   Credentials showing relationship of the agent or employee;
      (4)   Description of the individual filing the statement, including
height, weight, sex, age, color, and distinguishing characteristics, if any;
      (5)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale, or the type of services
to be rendered;
      (6)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in
the town; and
      (7)   Description of any automobile or other vehicle to be used in the
business, including the make, model, body style, color, and license number.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 DOOR-TO-DOOR ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, or transient vendor or
other seller of merchandise to go in or upon private residences or any other
premises posted with a “No Solicitation” sign or some similar marking.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
130.01   Damaging or trespassing on town property prohibited
   
130.02   Filling and dumping prohibited
   
130.03   Improper maintenance of residential premises prohibited
   
130.04   Keeping of farm animals
   
130.05   RiverPark rules
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DAMAGING OR TRESPASSING ON TOWN PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to damage, deface, trespass upon, break, or injure any
property belonging to the town.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 FILLING AND DUMPING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fill any land or dump, upon any
vacant lot within the town, with garbage, dead animals, decaying vegetable or
animal matter, or any offensive material.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 IMPROPER MAINTENANCE OF RESIDENTIAL PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a residential
building, structure, or property to utilize the premises of that residential
property for the open storage of any abandoned icebox, refrigerator, stove,
glass, building material, building rubbish, or similar items.
   (B)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every owner or occupant to
keep the residential property clean and to remove from the premises all
abandoned items as listed above, including but not limited to weeds, dead
trees, trash, garbage, and the like, upon notice from the code enforcement
personnel.
(Prior Code, § 130.06) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 KEEPING OF FARM ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any hogs, cows, horses,
goats, sheep, or any other farm animals, including fowl, within the corporate
limits of the town on any property less than one acre in area.
   (B)   (1)   In keeping any animal as provided above, the owners of such
property must collect and remove all waste materials from the property and
deposit the same in an approved compost or as otherwise authorized by law.
      (2)   At no time shall the owner of such property allow such waste
material to drain, runoff, or be washed onto an adjoining property, into a
drainage ditch, stream, creek, or other stormwater collection system or area.
(Prior Code, § 130.10) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 RIVERPARK RULES.
   In order to enforce rules and regulations for RiverPark at Cooleemee Falls,
which is located on property owned by the town, with said park property lying
in both Davie County and Rowan County, that the following park rules and
enforcement mechanism be adopted.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the following
park rules:
      (1)   No person is allowed on park property between sunset and 8:00 a.m.;
      (2)   No alcoholic beverages or illegal drugs are permitted;
      (3)   No motorized vehicles are allowed on trails or outside designated
parking areas, except those used by law enforcement, emergency response
agencies, or park personnel;
      (4)   No firearms are allowed;
      (5)   No littering or dumping is permitted;
      (6)   All pets must be on a leash and owners are responsible to clean up
after their pets;
      (7)   No soliciting or sales are allowed without the issuance of a permit
from the town and the President of the RiverPark Board;
      (8)   No glass beverage containers are allowed;
      (9)   Children under 12 years of age must be supervised by an
accompanying adult;
      (10)   No open fires are allowed without the issuance of a permit from
the town and the President of the RiverPark Board, and no grills are allowed
under the picnic shelter at any time;
      (11)   No horses are permitted in the park; and
      (12)   Coolers, backpacks, and packages are subject to search by
authorized law enforcement personnel.
   (B)   No provision hereof shall make unlawful any act necessarily performed
by any law enforcement officer, park employee, or designated agent of the town
in the proper and necessary execution of these rules, applicable local, state,
and federal statutes or maintenance of park property and security of its
patrons.
   (C)   No provision hereof shall amend, alter, or rescind the provisions set
forth in §
34.24, which applies to all other park property owned by the town.
(Prior Code, § 130.11) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
130.04 shall constitute either a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by fine not to
exceed $50 or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4, as amended, or at the
election of the town, shall subject the offender to civil penalties, remedies,
and enforcement procedures contained in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 130.10)
   (C)   A violation of §
130.05 shall constitute either a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by fine not to
exceed $500 as provided by G.S. § 14-4, as amended, or at the election of the
town, shall subject the offender to civil penalties, remedies, and enforcement
procedures contained in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 130.11)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Discharge of firearms; permit required
   
131.02   Breaking police and fire lines restricted
   
131.03   Disturbance in public places or assemblages prohibited
   
131.04   Beer and wine consumption; container disposal
   
131.05   Begging and soliciting
Curfew
   
131.20   Purpose
   
131.21   Definitions
   
131.22   Offenses
   
131.23   Exceptions
   
131.24   Special individual permit
   
131.25   Special event permit
   
131.26   Defense
   
131.27   Enforcement
 
   
131.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   ...missing material... firing upon pigeons, squirrels, or rats (when
not in violation of state law) upon or around an apartment or dwelling. Any
permit of this type shall be issued only if, in the reasonable estimation of
the Police Chief, those activities can be conducted without jeopardizing public
safety. The permit shall run for not more than 30 days, and shall authorize
firing during daylight hours on weekdays only upon premises owned or occupied
by the applicant, and shall be revocable by the Police Chief upon a violation
of its conditions or upon complaint that the permit holder is not exercising
his or her privilege in a careful and prudent manner and with due regard to
life and property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge within the
corporate limits of the town any pellet gun, rifle, shotgun, pistol, spring
gun, or other similar device or firearm which impels with force a shot or
pellet of any kind, except as provided in divisions (C) and (D) below;
provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to the discharging of
BB guns. The Police Chief or any member of the Police Department is hereby
authorized to seize, and hold subject to order of court, any pellet gun, rifle,
shotgun, pistol, spring gun, or other similar device or firearm which impels
with force a shot or pellet of any kind, which shall be used, shot, or
discharged within the town in violation of this section.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prevent a person over 21 years of age
from securing a permit from the Police Chief for the purpose of using a .22
caliber rifle with blank or shot cartridges for the purpose of ...missing
material...
   (D)   This section shall not prohibit the discharge of these devices either
during a course of instruction in their use conducted by the Police Department
or on a firing range completely enclosed within the town, after inspection of
the building and approval of the use of the range by the Police Department from
the standpoint of public safety.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. 14, passed 5-25-1987; Ord. 15, passed 6-8-1987)
Penalty, see §
131.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate and restrict firearms, see G.S. §§ 160A-189 and 160A-
190
§ 131.02 BREAKING POLICE AND FIRE LINES RESTRICTED.
   At the time of any public parade, accident, riot, public peril, or other
circumstances causing people to congregate or assemble, it shall be unlawful
for any person to enter, break through, or remain within the danger lines or
other bounds established by the police, or by or under the direction of any
authorized town official, for the preservation of public safety, peace, and
order, unless that person is authorized to do so by an officer in charge.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DISTURBANCE IN PUBLIC PLACES OR ASSEMBLAGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, aid, countenance, or assist in
making, any improper noise, or to incite or engage in any riot or disturbance,
or to indulge or engage in improper and disorderly conduct or conversation in
any street, park, or other public place, or in any theater or place of
amusement, or in any room or building in which any number of persons are
lawfully assembled.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 BEER AND WINE CONSUMPTION; CONTAINER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume any malt beverages or
wine (fortified or unfortified), on any public property, or upon any public
street.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drop, throw, cast, or deposit
any malt beverage or wine (fortified or unfortified) container in any public
place or upon any public street or upon the private premises of another without
permission of the owner or person entitled to possession of those premises.
(Prior Code, § 130.07) (Ord. 1, passed 7-14-1986) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 BEGGING AND SOLICITING.
   For the purpose of this section, BEGGING OR SOLICITING shall be defined as
any action or request as described herein for the donation, benefaction,
charity, beneficence, contribution, offering, or otherwise canvassing the
public for the private benefit of the solicitor or any other person.
   (A)   No person shall beg or solicit in or on the streets or other public
places, nor in the entrances or corridors to or of any public building without
a permit thereof from the Town Hall.
   (B)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any pencils, shoestrings,
chewing gum, or similar objects in or on the streets or other public places as
an indirect method of soliciting, nor shall any person offer a cup or other
receptacle for the deposit of money or take up any collection in connection
with the playing of any musical instrument in or on the streets or other public
places, without having a permit thereof from the Town Hall.
   (C)   In the interest of maintaining a clear flow of traffic, no person
shall beg or solicit, directly or indirectly, in the entrances, rooms, or
corridors of buildings owned, leased, or maintained by the town irrespective of
any permit which may have been issued pursuant to
Chapter 112.
   (D)   No person shall beg or solicit, directly or indirectly, upon any
private property or residence, irrespective of any permit which may have been
issued pursuant to
Chapter 112, without prior invitation of the owner or occupant thereof.
(Prior Code, § 130.08) Penalty, see §
131.99
CURFEW
§ 131.20 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect juveniles from
victimization and exposure to criminal activity by establishing a curfew for
juveniles under the age of 16 years in the town.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to reinforce and promote the role of the
parent in training and guiding children, and promote the health, safety, and
welfare of both juveniles and adults by creating an environment offering better
protection and security for all concerned.
(Prior Code, § 131.01)
§ 131.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest reasonable path of travel or a commonly used
route to reach a final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action.
      (1)   The term includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural
disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring immediate action
to prevent serious bodily injury or death.
      (2)   This term also shall include any action that is reasonably
necessary in order to respond to the medical needs of a family member of the
juvenile regardless of whether the juvenile’s action is taken in order to
prevent death or serious bodily injury.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for profit to
which the public has access or is invited, including but not limited to any
place of amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN. A person who is court appointed to be the guardian of a juvenile.
   JUVENILE. Any person under the age of 16 years.
   OWNER or OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation, operating, managing, or conducting any establishment, including
the employees, members, or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, foster parent, or step-parent of
another person, or a person to whom legal custody has been given by court
order.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place that is generally open to and used by the public or
a substantial group of the public, whether it is a publicly or privately owned,
including but not limited to: streets, sidewalks, highways, alleys, rights-of-
way, public vehicular areas and parking lots, transportation facilities,
theaters, restaurants, shops, bowling alleys, schools and school grounds,
places of business and amusement, playgrounds, parks, similar areas that are
open to the public, and other common areas open to or accessible to the public.
   REMAIN. To linger, to stay in a public place, or to fail to leave the
premises of an establishment when requested to do so by the owner or operator
or employee of the premises.
   RESTRICTED HOURS. The time of night referred to herein is based upon the
prevailing standard of time, whether Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight
Saving Time, generally observed at that hour by the public in the town:
      (1)   On any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday: 10:00 p.m.
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   On any Friday or Saturday: 11:00 p.m. until 6:00 a.m. of the
following day.
(Prior Code, § 131.02)
§ 131.22 OFFENSES.
   Except as provided by §§
131.23 through
131.25, the following offenses constitute a violation of this subchapter.
   (A)   A juvenile commits an offense by being present in or remaining in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during the
restricted hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a juvenile commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits or by insufficient control, allows the juvenile to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the town during
the restricted hours.
      (1)   The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge that a parent should
reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a juvenile in that
a parent’s legal custody.
      (2)   This requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless
parent’s legal custody.
      (3)   This requirement is intended to hold a neglectful or careless
parent up to a reasonable community standard of parental responsibility through
an objective test.
      (4)   It shall, therefore, be no defense that parent was completely
indifferent to the activities, conduct, or whereabouts of such juvenile.
   (C)   The owner or operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a juvenile to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during the restricted hours.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person, 16 years of
age or older, to aid or abet a juvenile for whom the parent or guardian is
responsible.
   (E)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for a parent or guardian to
refuse to take custody during the restricted hours of a juvenile for whom the
parent or guardian is responsible.
(Prior Code, § 131.03) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.23 EXCEPTIONS.
   A juvenile who is in a public place or establishment during the restricted
hours shall not be in violation of this suchapter if the juvenile is:
   (A)   Accompanied by his or her parent or guardian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult 18 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of such juvenile to take the parent or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (C)   On an errand, using a direct route, at the direction of the juvenile’s
parent or guardian until the hour of 12:30 a.m.;
   (D)   In a motor vehicle with parental consent engaged in interstate travel
through the town or originating or terminating in the town;
   (E)   Traveling in a motor vehicle with a parent or guardian, or traveling
in a motor vehicle with an adult 18 years of age or older authorized by the
parent or guardian of such juvenile to take the parent or guardian’s place in
accompanying the juvenile for a designated period of time and purpose within a
specified area;
   (F)   Engaged in a lawful employment activity, or using a direct route to or
from his or her place of employment, either at the beginning or end of their
work hours;
   (G)   Reacting or responding to an emergency;
   (H)   Attending or traveling to or from, by direct route, an official
school, religious, or recreational activity that is supervised by adults and
sponsored by a public or private school, the town or other governmental entity,
a civic organization, or another similar entity that accepts responsibility for
the juvenile; and/or
   (I)   Married or emancipated.
(Prior Code, § 131.04)
§ 131.24 SPECIAL INDIVIDUAL PERMIT.
   (A)   When necessary nighttime activities or circumstances of an individual
juvenile may be inadequately provided for by other provisions of this
subchapter, a written application, signed by the juvenile and the parent or
parents of the juvenile, may be submitted to the Police Chief, or his or her
designee, in request for a “special individual permit.”
   (B)   Upon the findings of reasonable necessity for the use of a public
place to the extent warranted by such written application and circumstances,
the Police Chief, or his or her designee, may authorize and issue a “special
individual permit.”
   (C)   Such application and permit shall have the following information
documented:
      (1)   The name, age, and address of the juvenile;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the parent thereof;
      (3)   The height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair, and other physical
characteristics of the juvenile;
      (4)   The necessity that requires the juvenile to remain upon a public
place during the restricted hours otherwise applicable;
      (5)   The public place where the juvenile will be during the restricted
hours; and
      (6)   The beginning and ending of the period of time involved by date and
hour.
   (D)   The Police Chief, or his or her designee, may grant a permit or modify
such application for the juvenile’s use of a public place at such hours, as in
the opinion of the Police Chief, may reasonably be necessary and consistent
with the purpose of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 131.05)
§ 131.25 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (A)   When necessary nighttime activities or circumstances of a group of
juveniles or a group sponsored event may be inadequately provided for by other
provisions of this subchapter, the sponsor of the event may submit a written
application to the Police Chief, or his or her designee, in request for a
“special event permit.”
   (B)   Normally, such application should be submitted to the Police Chief, or
his or her designee, providing for sufficient time for review, issue of such
permit, and to provide for appropriate publicity through news media and through
other agencies such as the schools.
   (C)   Such application shall define the activity, the scope of the use of
the public places permitted, and the period of time involved, not to extend
more than one hour beyond the time for termination of the sponsored activity.
   (D)   No such permit shall be approved unless it is found to be reasonably
necessary and is consistent with the purpose of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 131.06)
§ 131.26 DEFENSE.
   It shall be a defense to prosecution under §
131.03(C) that the owner or operator or employees of an establishment promptly
notify the Police Department that a juvenile was present on the premises of the
establishment during the restricted hours and refused to leave.
(Prior Code, § 131.07)
§ 131.27 ENFORCEMENT.
   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, a police officer
shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the public place
or establishment during restricted hours.
(Prior Code, § 131.08)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
131.05 shall constitute either a Class 3 misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
to exceed $50 or imprisonment as provided by G.S. § 14-4, as amended, or at the
election of the town, shall subject the offender to civil penalties, remedies,
and enforcement procedures contained in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 130.08)
   (C)   (1)   A juvenile who violates any provision of §
131.22 is subject to be adjudicated delinquent.
      (2)   The court may, in its discretion, impose any dispositional
alternatives(s) that are provided in the State Juvenile Code for any juvenile
who is delinquent.
      (3)   Any person, other than a juvenile, who violates any provision of §
131.22 shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
not to exceed $50 and imprisonment in the discretion of the court in accordance
with G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 131.09)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
152.   ADDRESSING AND ROAD NAMING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Fences
   
150.01   Standards
   
150.02   Height and material
   
150.03   Setbacks and placement
Mailboxes
   
150.15   Mailboxes within the town
   
150.16   Exceptions
   
150.17   Definitions
FENCES
§ 150.01 STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply to all fences and walls in all zoning
districts unless otherwise noted.
   (A)   (1)   Fences and walls shall be erected and maintained in a safe
manner and good condition.
      (2)   Fences and walls not erected or maintained in a safe manner or good
order due to neglect, lack of repair, manner of construction, method of
placement, or otherwise deemed unsafe by the town shall be repaired, replaced,
or removed.
   (B)   (1)   Any fencing and wall construction placed prior to date of the
ordinance codified herein shall be exempt from height material and set back
prohibitions.
      (2)   However, if said fence or wall is in need of replacing or of over
20%, then the fence or wall must be brought up to current code within 60 days
from notice.
   (C)   Fences and walls shall not contain advertising, signs, logos, or other
lettering unless expressly requested by the property owner, recommended by the
Planning Board, and given final approval by the Board of Commissioners.
   (D)   Fences and walls shall be constructed such that the “finished” part of
the fence or wall is located facing the exterior of the property with
exceptions for picket and split rail fencing.
   (E)   (1)   A fence construction permit must be obtained from the town
before construction of any fence or wall.
      (2)   The permit is free and shall be submitted by the property owner.
      (3)   A permit request form is available at the Town Hall and the
completed form shall be submitted to the Town Clerk at the Town Hall.
      (4)   The following items must accompany a fence or wall permit request:
         (a)   A plot map from the county showing the dimensions of the
property, or a certified survey map of the property completed within the past
ten years;
         (b)   A drawing of the proposed fence or wall that conforms to the
requirements of this subchapter including setbacks from road and street rights-
of-way, adjoining property as well as height of fence or wall;
         (c)   The application will designate the type of material used for n
fence or wall; and
         (d)   After accepting the application, a town official will conduct a
pre-construction inspection of the property on which the fence or wall is
proposed to ensure that all setbacks are clearly marked and that the plan
conforms to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, Ch. 95(A)) (Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 150.02 HEIGHT AND MATERIAL.
   (A)   Fences and walls shall meet the height and material requirements
below:
      (1)   In front yards, fences or walls shall be no higher than four feet;
and
      (2)   In side and rear yards, fences and walls shall not exceed the
height of eight feet.
   (B)   The following materials are acceptable for fence or wall construction:
      (1)   Stone;
      (2)   Black or white aluminum;
      (3)   Brick;
      (4)   Vinyl;
      (5)   Wrought iron;
      (6)   Wood picket;
      (7)   Pressure-treated wood slats or boards;
      (8)   Chain link (rear and side yards only); or
      (9)   Split rail.
   (C)   Animal wiring (hog or chicken wire) may be attached to the inside of
the rear and side yard fence.
   (D)   No barbed or razor wire shall be installed as part of any fence or
wall.
(Prior Code, Ch. 95(B)) (Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
§ 150.03 SETBACKS AND PLACEMENT.
   (A)   Fences and walls must be set back from the street or road right-of-way
at least 12 inches.
   (B)   Fences or walls should be set back from adjoining property lines at
least six inches so as to provide for proper maintenance.
   (C)   No fence or wall shall impede entrance for emergency vehicles.
   (D)   (1)   A FRONT YARD shall be considered that space between the forward
facing front of the house footprint.
      (2)   A SIDE YARD shall be considered the space on either side of the
house from the front to the rear of the house.
      (3)   A REAR YARD shall be considered that space between the rear
footprint of the house to the rear property line.
   (E)   If the side yard of a house faces directly onto a public street, it
must comply with a 12-inch setback from the street or road right-of-way.
(Prior Code, Ch. 95(C)) (Ord. passed 3-16-2015)
MAILBOXES
§ 150.15 MAILBOXES WITHIN THE TOWN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect a curbside mailbox inside
the corporate limits of the town.
(Prior Code, § 96.1)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person and/or business to erect a wall-
mounted mailbox inside the corporate town limits.
(Prior Code, § 96.2)
   (C)   Preexisting curbside and/or wall-mounted mailboxes that are approved
nonconforming may stay in place and in use until occupants and/or ownership of
the property changes. Upon change, the new occupants and/or owners must comply
with division (A) above and/or division (B) above and the preexisting mailbox
must be removed.
(Prior Code, § 96.3)
(Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. passed 6-4-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   Exceptions to §
150.15 may only be permitted on a case-by-case basis where a permanent medical
condition requires the use of a mailbox. To obtain the permit, the individual
or designee must present their request to the Board of Commissioners, provide
proof of existing medical condition, and answer any clarifying questions
pertaining to the logistics of the requested mailbox. If a majority votes to
approve the request, then the town will provide a permit allowing the
exception. If the Board of Commissioners has made any special conditions, those
conditions will be included with the permit and must be followed to remain in
compliance with the town’s code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 96.4) (Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. passed 6-4-2018)
§ 150.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED NONCONFORMING. A curbside or wall-mounted mailbox that was erected
prior to the adoption of the ordinance codified herein that is not in
compliance with this subchapter.
   CURBSIDE MAILBOX. A mailbox that is located near the road and attached onto
some form of post and/or housed in a custom-built structure.
   PROOF OF THE EXISTING MEDICAL CONDITION. Any document that is signed by a
doctor verifying the need for a mailbox due to a permanent medical condition.
There is no requirement for the medical condition to be disclosed and no
questions will be asked about the medical condition or history.
   SPECIAL CONDITIONS. Any requirement placed by the Town Board for the
allowance of an exception. Example: If a wall-mounted mailbox was approved,
then a curbside mailbox is not allowed to remain in compliance.
   WALL-MOUNTED MAILBOX. A mailbox that is located at or near the residential
structure that is mounted onto the wall or similar surface.
(Prior Code, § 96.5) (Ord. passed 3-16-2015; Ord. passed 6-4-2018)
CHAPTER 151: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Town Board to approve new streets
Excavations; Construction
   
151.15   Permit required; application; fees
   
151.16   Streets and sidewalks to be restored
   
151.17   Excavations to be secured
   
151.18   Tractors or harrows
   
151.19   Sidewalk construction
   
151.20   House moving; bond required
   
151.21   Damage to municipal property
   
151.22   Driveways; permit required
Obstructions
   
151.35   Assembly on streets and sidewalks
   
151.36   Display of goods prohibited
   
151.37   Construction near sidewalks
   
151.38   Sheds and awnings
   
151.39   Repair of motor vehicles
   
151.40   Gates opening on streets or sidewalks prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TOWN BOARD TO APPROVE NEW STREETS.
   Before any new street offered for dedication to the town is accepted and
officially recognized as a town-maintained street, the Town Board must give its
approval, finding that the street complies with engineering standards set by
the Town Board, and that the best interests of the town would be served by
accepting the street as a town street.
(Prior Code, § 94.01)
EXCAVATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
§ 151.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch,
trench, tunnel, or hole in, along, across, or under any street, sidewalk, or
other public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe,
wires, or poles, or for any other purposes, unless a written permit has been
issued by some officer of the town vested with proper authority; provided that
a permit shall not be required where the work is performed under a contract
with the town, but in the event the work requires a sidewalk or street to be
wholly or partially obstructed, the party performing the work shall notify the
town at least two hours before obstructing the sidewalk or street, unless
prevented by sudden emergency.
   (B)   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or
sidewalk, as set forth in division (A) above, shall make written application
therefor, which application shall show the location of the proposed opening,
the purpose therefor, and the approximate number of square yards of surface to
be cut.
   (C)   A fee may be required by the Town Board for the permit.
(Prior Code, § 94.15) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and control over street, see G.S. § 160A-296
§ 151.16 STREETS AND SIDEWALKS TO BE RESTORED.
   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public place of the
town shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the excavation
or opening shall have the duty of refilling the excavation or opening, and the
refilling shall be done in accordance with the town standards and
specifications.
(Prior Code, § 94.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.17 EXCAVATIONS TO BE SECURED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation who obtains a
permit under the sections of this subchapter to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk, or public place without placing and maintaining proper guard rails
three feet from the ground and signal lights or other warning at, in, or around
the same, sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or work, and to
protect all persons using reasonable care, from injuries on account of the
excavation or work.
(Prior Code, § 94.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.18 TRACTORS OR HARROWS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to drag, run, or
cause to be dragged or run, any harrow or other implement, engine, machine, or
tool upon any asphalt or other type of permanently paved street of the town
which shall be likely in any way to injure or cut the surface of the street.
(Prior Code, § 94.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.19 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual, firm, or
corporation without a written permit from the town.
(Prior Code, § 94.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.20 HOUSE MOVING; BOND REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the public streets
or sidewalks without the written consent of the Town Board and the deposit of a
good and sufficient bond to cover damage done to any street or sidewalk or any
property of any person.
(Prior Code, § 94.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.21 DAMAGE TO MUNICIPAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint upon, or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, signpost, streetlight, traffic signal,
bulletin board, or other municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks or
elsewhere, except employees of the town in the performance of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 94.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.22 DRIVEWAYS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter, or grade any
driveway on the public streets, unless a written permit therefor has been
issued by some officer of the town vested with that authority.
(Prior Code, § 94.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 151.35 ASSEMBLY ON STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §§
93.01 through
93.08, it shall be unlawful for crowds or assemblages of persons to congregate
on the streets or sidewalks of the town in a way so as to unnecessarily
interfere with pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Any person refusing to disperse upon being so ordered by a police
officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 94.35) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.36 DISPLAY OF GOODS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place or set
out for exhibition any goods, wares, or merchandise directly connected with the
business transacted by him or her, on the public sidewalk in front of a place
of business, store, or building owned, controlled, or occupied by him or her.
(Prior Code, § 94.36) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.37 CONSTRUCTION NEAR SIDEWALKS.
   Before building or remodeling at any place in close proximity to a sidewalk,
a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the sidewalk unobstructed and
provide safe and easy passage.
(Prior Code, § 94.37) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.38 SHEDS AND AWNINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to construct or
erect, or cause to be constructed or erected, any structure, and particularly
any awning or similar structure, over any sidewalk or any part of any sidewalk
of the town, unless the structure is at least seven feet above the surface of
the sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 94.38) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.39 REPAIR OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to repair a motor
vehicle on a paved street of the town except in case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 94.39) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.40 GATES OPENING ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to allow or permit any gate to open upon or otherwise
encroach upon any street or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 94.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: ADDRESSING AND ROAD NAMING
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Short title
   
152.03   Street names; changing authorized
   
152.04   New streets
   
152.05   Territorial jurisdiction
   
152.06   Addressing map
   
152.07   The numbering system
   
152.08   Addressing system
   
152.09   Posting requirements for structure
   
152.10   Unlawful to deface numbers
   
152.11   Road naming
   
152.12   Road name signs and standards
   
152.13   Administration
   
152.14   Amendments
   
152.15   Legal status provisions
   
152.16   Appeals and requests for variance
   
152.17   Definitions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Planning Committee, see §§
32.50 through
32.59
   Town Board to approve new streets, see §
151.01
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly assignment of town
addresses, to fulfill the town’s responsibilities between the county and
geographic information services (GIS), and to protect the safety and welfare of
the general public by facilitating the location of individual dwellings and
businesses by emergency response personnel.
(Prior Code, § 94.70)
§ 152.02 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance codified herein shall be known as the “Addressing and Road
Naming Ordinance of the Town,” and may be referred to as the “Addressing
Ordinance,” and the map referred to is identified by the title “Official Road
Name and Structure Numbering Map,” and may be known as the “addressing map.”
(Prior Code, § 94.76)
§ 152.03 STREET NAMES; CHANGING AUTHORIZED.
   The town shall have the authority to change the name of any street within
the corporate limits or one mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town upon
notice published at least once ten days before a public hearing thereon.
(Prior Code, § 94.77)
§ 152.04 NEW STREETS.
   No new streets shall be named within the corporate limits of the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town without prior approval of the town.
Proposed new street names and the locations thereof shall be submitted to the
Addressing Administrator for review. The Addressing Administrator shall have
the authority to disapprove the proposed name if it conflicts with or is
confusingly similar to an existing street name in either spelling or
pronunciation.
(Prior Code, § 94.78)
§ 152.05 TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The road naming and addressing policies set forth in this chapter shall be
applicable to all of the incorporated areas of the town and the area under the
town’s extraterritorial planning and zoning jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 94.79)
§ 152.06 ADDRESSING MAP.
   (A)   Official Road Name and Structure Map. The address numbering map shall
be entitled “Official Road Name and Structure Numbering Map.” All town
addresses assigned shall be assigned in accordance with this map.
   (B)   Maintenance and storage. The addressing map shall be kept on file in
the town’s Planning and Zoning Department and/or the county’s GIS office. This
map may be maintained and updated in data processing storage systems.
(Prior Code, § 94.80)
§ 152.07 THE NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Uniformity of system. All roads that are officially designated on the
addressing map, whether public or private, shall be numbered uniformly and
consecutively along the roadway centerline. Numbers shall be assigned along the
entirety of all named thoroughfares.
   (B)   Road naming and numbering criteria. All roads, both public and
private, shall be named, numbered, and have road name signs installed if two or
more addressable structures, including mobile homes, are located on and
accessed by them.
   (C)   Numbering method. A pair of numbers, each being either a three-,
four-, or five-digit natural number, called a structure number, shall be
assigned at intervals of 10.56 feet along the roadway center line. Odd natural
numbers shall be assigned to the left side of the road by ascending numbers
moving from the axis or origin point. Even natural numbers shall be assigned to
the right side of the road in a like manner.
   (D)   Dead end road. All dead end roads and cul-de-sacs shall begin with
ascending numbers at the open end, that being the end connecting to another
road.
   (E)   Number begin with 100. The first potentially assignable structure
number on a given road shall be the number 100.
   (F)   Existing property numbers. Existing property numbers shall be
maintained, with the exception of those numbers not in sequence with other
properties in that block (e.g. 900 numbers in 300 block).
(Prior Code, § 94.81)
§ 152.08 ADDRESSING SYSTEM.
   (A)   Method of assigning a number. Each structure shall be assigned a
structure number based on the number of the appropriate segment of the roadway
centerline. The structure number shall be determined by the line perpendicular
to the road centerline, which intersects the centerline of the driveway or more
than one driveway, the structure number shall be assigned to the driveway that
best services the main access to the structure. The number of the centerline
segment at the point of perpendicular intersection shall be the number of the
structure.
   (B)   Corner lots. Structures on corner lots shall be assigned a structure
number either from the road which intersects the addressable driveway to that
structure, or from the road in which the main access or entrance to the
structure is orientated. The number will be assigned using the method in
division (A) above and will be assigned in the manner as determined by the
Addressing Administrator.
   (C)   Road name of address. The road name for an address shall be the name
of the road from which the structure is numbered.
   (D)   Requirements for road naming and numbering. If development on a
private road exceeds the minimum structure regulation contained in §
152.07(D), said road shall be named and numbered and structures readdressed
according to the requirements herein.
   (E)   Duplex and multi-family dwellings. One structure number shall be
assigned to each structure whose units share a common roof on the same lot of
record. Each unit within the structure shall be assigned a unit designator.
Allowed unit designators include apartment numbers for each apartment and
numbers for commercial buildings. The unit designators shall be a number and
shall not include alphabetic characters, except as stated in division (F)
below. This section specifically applies to multi-family dwellings.
   (F)   Assigning of unit designators.
      (1)   Residential unit designators shall be as follows:
         (a)   Ground-level floor numbers: 101, 102, 103, and the like; and
         (b)   Second floor numbers: 201, 202, 203, and the like.
      (2)   All floor levels are to follow this scheme. Underground floor
designators shall follow the same scheme with exception of having a “U” for a
prefix, for example, U101, U102, and the like.
      (3)   Unit designators shall be assigned in a logical manner, with
increasing unit numbers corresponding to increasing road centerline numbering
wherever possible.
   (G)   Mobile homes. Manufactured housing or mobile homes shall be assigned
individual street addresses according to the requirements herein, whether they
are located on individual lots or in developments or parks.
   (H)   Recreational or resort communities. Resort communities or recreational
minimum may be required where the developments that have established dwelling
sites (seasonal or other) with electrical power hookups shall be assigned
individual street address in accordance with the requirements herein.
(Prior Code, § 94.82)
§ 152.09 POSTING REQUIREMENTS FOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Time constraints. Within 90 days after written notification of the
assignment of or change of a structure number, the owner of said structure
shall post the assigned structure number in compliance with the requirements
herein.
   (B)   Number specifications.
      (1)   All structure numbers shall be constructed of a durable material.
The color shall contrast with the color scheme of the structure, and if mounted
on glass, shall contrast with the background and be clearly visible.
      (2)   The minimum number size for residential structures or units shall
be four inches in height.
      (3)   The minimum size for all other structure numbers shall be six
inches in height.
      (4)   In all cases, a number size larger than the minimum may be required
where the minimum size does not provide adequate identification.
   (C)   Posting locations.
      (1)   For single-family residential or duplex structures, the structure
number shall be posted and maintained within a three feet perimeter of the
front entrance of the structure, in a location visible and readable from the
road.
      (2)   For all other structures, the structure number shall be posted on a
building face most readily visible from the road from which the number is
assigned.
      (3)   Unit designators shall be posted at each unit within a three feet
perimeter of the front entrance of unit.
      (4)   In the event that a structure or its posted number is not visible
from the road which its number is assigned, the assigned structure number shall
also be posted on the property adjacent to the road.
      (5)   This number shall be located at the primary driveway access point.
      (6)   In all cases, the structure number shall be clearly displayed in
such a way that the structure number can be easily identified from the street
or road during both day and night.
   (D)   Maintenance of structure numbers.
      (1)   Following the posting of the assigned number as required herein,
the owner shall maintain the structure number at all times in compliance with
the requirements of this section.
      (2)   Structure numbers and unit designators, as viewed from the road,
shall not be obstructed from view.
(Prior Code, § 94.83)
§ 152.10 UNLAWFUL TO DEFACE NUMBERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to alter, deface, or take down any
number placed on any property in accordance with this chapter, except for
repair or replacement of that number.
(Prior Code, § 94.70) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11 ROAD NAMING.
   (A)   Approval of names. The Addressing Administrator shall have authority
to approve road names within the town and in unincorporated areas of the county
under the town’s extraterritorial zoning jurisdiction, subject to the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Deceptively similar names. The Addressing Administrator shall maintain
a database of existing road names, such that duplicate or are “deceptively
similar” road names are neither approved nor assigned.
   (C)   New road names. New road names that relate to the history, location,
or scale of a project area shall be given consideration.
   (D)   Desirable names. Road names that are pleasant sounding, appropriate,
easy to read, and add pride to home ownership shall be promoted.
   (E)   Undesirable names.
      (1)   The following kinds of names shall be avoided: numerical,
alphabetical, complicated names, and names which tend to offend the community.
      (2)   The Addressing Administrator is hereby given authority to refuse to
accept any road name which in his or her opinion violates the provisions of the
section.
   (F)   Suffixes.
      (1)   The following road name suffixes are allowed: Avenue (AVE),
Boulevard (BLVD), Circle (CIR), Court (CT), Drive (DR), Highway (HWY), Lane
(LN), Loop (LP), Parkway (PKWY), Place (PL), Road (RD), Street (ST), Trail
(TRL), and Way (WAY).
      (2)   Private roads shall be assigned the suffixes “Trail,” “Lane,” or
“Way.” All other suffixes shall be reserved for public roads.
   (G)   Road segments. Each road shall bear the same name and uniform
numbering along the entirety of the road. Segments of roads shall not be
allowed to have different or separate names. The Addressing Administrator shall
determine what constitutes a road or way.
   (H)   Offset intersections and split routes. Split routes, also known as
“dog-leg” or offset intersections, shall be treated as separate roads with
different names and numbering to preserve the integrity and continuity of the
numbering system.
   (I)   Impasses. Impasses or sections of a road that are impassable shall be
assigned different names and numbering to each portion of the road on either
side of the impasse to preserve the integrity and continuity of the numbering
system.
   (J)   Existing road names. The Addressing Administrator shall, whenever
possible, consistent with the provisions of this section, retain road names
already established.
(Prior Code, § 94.84)
§ 152.12 ROAD NAME SIGNS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Installation and maintenance. All public and private road name signs
required by this section shall be installed and maintained by the town’s Public
Works Department.
   (B)   Sign standards.
      (1)   All road name signs shall be a six-inch vertical dimension sign.
      (2)   Road name signs or “blades” shall be made of reflective green
sheeting with the road name in reflective silver letters on both sides.
      (3)   In residential districts, at least one road name sign shall be
mounted at each intersection.
      (4)   (a)   On major arterial (U.S. NC and SR 1000 series routes), road
name signs shall be placed on diagonally opposite corners so that they will be
on the far right side of the intersection for traffic on the major road.
         (b)   Signs naming both roads shall be erected at each location.
         (c)   They shall be mounted with their faces parallel to the roads
they name.
      (5)   (a)   Road name signs shall be placed at least two feet behind the
face of a curb with a minimum clearance of seven feet from the bottom of the
sign to the projected edge of pavement.
         (b)   If there is no curb and gutter, the signs shall be placed behind
the ditch line, out of the maintenance area.
         (c)   The lateral clearance from the road’s edge should be six feet.
      (6)   Whenever physical conditions permit, signs shall be located on the
right-hand side of the road as one approaches the intersection.
      (7)   Signs shall be located to optimize nighttime visibility.
      (8)   Signs shall be set in the center of the turning radius in such a
way as to be visible from both intersecting roads.
      (9)   Signs shall be placed across the ditch line and shall not block
regulatory or warning signs.
      (10)   Signs shall be located in conformance with safety factors related
to fixed obstacles near the roadway.
   (C)   Existing road signs. The Addressing Administrator shall retain
existing road signs already in place, except for those signs which are
inconsistent with the provisions of this section, and substantially affect the
purposes sought to be carried out by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 94.85)
§ 152.13 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Addressing Administrator and responsibilities.
      (1)   The county is hereby given authority to administer and assign town
addresses, and to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Interpretation and appeal of the ordinance codified herein shall be
accomplished by the Board of Planning and Adjustment.
   (B)   Applications and petitions. The Addressing Administrator shall accept
and examine all applications, road naming petitions, signage variances, and
initials appeals.
   (C)   Petitioning for a road name. Roads not eligible for naming, by means
of this chapter, may be named by submitting a petition signed by all of the
landowners along the road, and upon approval by the Addressing Administrator.
   (D)   Building permits. No building permit shall be issued for any building
or structure until the owner or developer has been issued a structure number
with a corresponding road name from the Addressing Administrator.
   (E)   Certificate of occupancy. Final approval for a certificate of
occupancy of any structure or building erected or repaired after the effective
date of the ordinance codified herein shall be withheld until permanent and
proper structure numbers have been posted in accordance with the requirements
herein.
   (F)   Procedure upon denial. Any person denied a request directed to the
Addressing Administrator may protest as provided in §
152.14 below.
(Prior Code, § 94.86)
§ 152.14 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   General. The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, on its own
motion or on petition, after public notice and a hearing, as provided by this
section, amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal the addressing
regulations and assignments.
   (B)   Public notification requirements. Before adopting or amending the
ordinance codified herein, the Town Board shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposal.
   (C)   Letter of notifications. Whenever there is a proposal for a change in
the addressing system involving any portion of an address, the landowners of
the parcels as shown on the county tax listings shall be mailed a notice of the
proposed change in the address system. The notice shall be mailed by first
class mail to the last address listed of the landowners according to the county
tax office.
   (D)   Application for amendment. Applications for an amendment to the
Addressing Ordinance codified herein shall be filled with the Addressing
Administrator at least 20 days prior to the date of public hearing. Each
application shall be signed, be in a duplicated form, and shall contain the
following:
      (1)   The applicant’s name and address in full;
      (2)   In the case of an amendment, it shall set forth the new text to be
added and the existing text to be deleted and any other text changes that will
have to be made as a result of the effect on the remaining provisions,
sections, definitions, diagrams, or attachments; and
      (3)   If the proposed amendment will change the addressing map, a copy of
the addressing map shall be marked to indicate the impact of the proposed
amendment to the existing map and shall be presented with the application for
amendment.
   (E)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held by the Town Board
before the adoption of any proposed amendments to the addressing ordinance
codified herein. When the Town Board shall have denied any application for the
change of a portion or matter of the Addressing Ordinance, it shall not
thereafter accept any other application for the same change involving that
portion or matter of the ordinance until the expiration of six months from the
date of such previous denial.
(Prior Code, § 94.87)
§ 152.15 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or display a different
address or portion thereof except as provided by this chapter or the “Official
Road Name and Structure Numbering Map.”
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to name any private road, street,
drive, cart way, easement, right-of-way, access area, or any other thoroughfare
except as provided by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to establish or erect any road
sign that does not comply with the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally destroy, mar, or
deface any town road name sign.
(Prior Code, § 94.88) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.16 APPEALS AND REQUESTS FOR VARIANCE.
   Road naming appeals and appeals for signage variance shall adhere to the
procedures below:
   (A)   Applications for appeal shall be in writing, and directed to the Board
of Planning and Adjustment and follow procedures as set forth in the town’s
Zoning Ordinance;
   (B)   Applications shall be dated and should describe the reasons for the
appeal; and
   (C)   Applications shall clearly state that all property owners along said
road are aware that any road name sign posting variance may hinder emergency
response personnel in their efforts to locate a particular address and shall
contain the signatures of all the property owners along said road.
(Prior Code, § 94.90)
§ 152.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVENUE (AVE). A major road that runs generally in an east/west direction.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. Means the town’s Board of Commissioners.
   BOULEVARD (BLVD). An unusually wide street in typically residential areas;
often with a central dividing medium.
   CIRCLE (CIR). A short road that returns to itself.
   COURT (CT). A dead end right-of-way often ending as a cul-de-sac.
   DRIVE (DR). A curving secondary road.
   HIGHWAY (HWY). A designated state or federal highway.
   INTERSTATE (I-#). A thoroughfare of the highest order and federally
designated as an interstate.
   LANE (LN). A short private road that branches off another road and ends or
connects to another secondary road.
   LOOP (LP). A short road that starts and ends on the same street or road.
   PARKWAY (PKWY). A special scenic route or park drive.
   PLACE (PL). A cul-de-sac or permanent dead end road.
   PRIVATE ROAD. Any road which is not maintained by a government entity or
agency through the use of public funds. Road name suffixes for private roads
include: “Trail,” “Lane,” and “Way.”
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road which is maintained by a governmental entity or agency
through the use of public funds.
   RADIO/COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Includes any radio communications,
transmissions, dispatching, or future enhanced 911 communications that may
involve police, emergency, fire, or rescue operations, but are not limited to
these aforesaid operations.
   ROAD (RD). A well-traveled secondary road often connecting with a U.S. or
state primary highway.
   STREET (ST). A major road that runs generally in a north/south direction.
   STREET ADDRESS.
      (1)   A unique identifier for each addressable structure within the town.
      (2)   The minimum adequate STREET ADDRESS shall be defined as the
assigned structure number and the officially adopted road name.
      (3)   Where required by this chapter, the STREET ADDRESS shall also
include the assigned unit designator.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, whether residential, commercial, industrial, or
institutional in nature and use.
   STRUCTURE NUMBER. The numerical portion of the street address, as assigned
by the ordinance administrator or his or her designee, in accordance with the
Official Road Name and Structure Numbering Map of the town.
   THOROUGHFARE. A general all-inclusive term for roads (public or private)
street, drive, cart way, easement, right-of-way, or any other word or words
that mean a way of access.
   TRAIL (TRL). A local, private road that serves as a connector for larger
roads.
   UNIT DESIGNATOR. The portion of the street address used to distinguish
individual units within the same structure.
   WAY (WAY). A minor private road that begins and ends on the same road.
(Prior Code, § 94.91)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Posting structure numbers.
         (a)   Violation off this chapter is a misdemeanor as provided by G.S.
§ 14-4 and may be punished as provided therein.
         (b)   Civil penalties may be imposed in accordance with the following
procedure:
            1.   Initial notification of violation in writing by first class
mail to the last known address of the person to be notified;
            2.   If not corrected within ten days, a warning citation may be
issued;
            3.   If not corrected within seven days of issuance of a warning
citation, a second citation including a fine of $25 may be issued; and
            4.   Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Notification of violation.
         (a)   Notification shall be issued by the Addressing Administrator or
his or her designee.
         (b)   Notification shall be in writing, directed to the name and
address of the owner of structure by certified mail return receipt.
         (c)   Notification shall set forth the action necessary for the
offender to be in compliance with this chapter.
      (3)   Road name signs. Violations of § 94.89 shall be punishable by the
maximum fines of up to $250 for each violation.
      (4)   Legal prosecution. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town
from taking other such lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Prior Code, § 94.89)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                        Code Section
14-3                             91.999
14-3.1                           91.999
                                 34.99,
                                 35.99,
14-4                             91.999,
                                 130.99,
                                 131.99,
                                 152.99
14-4(b)                          70.99
14-177 through 14-202.1, Art. 26 111.04
14-288.7                         35.99
14-288.8(c)(5)                   35.23
14-288.12                        35.01
14-360                           91.130,
                                 91.131
14-361.1                         91.133
14-362                           91.135
14.362.1                         91.135
14-363.2                         91.020,
                                 91.135
14-41                            91.115
14-419                           91.119,
                                 91.115
14-422                           91.115,
                                 91.119
14-4171                          91.115
14-4172                          91.115
15-A-302                         91.036
15a-303/14-4                     91.999
19A-70                           91.020,
                                 91.135
17C-1 et seq.                    32.18
Ch. 20                           Ch. 70
Ch. 20, Part 10                  73.99
20-141                           71.25
20-156                           70.18
20-219.11                        90.21
Ch. 44A, Art. 1                  90.23
60A-387                          32.54
                                 91.090,
67-4.1                           91.092,
                                 91.100
67-4.2                           91.090,
                                 91.095
67-4.3                           91.090
                                 91.090,
67-4.4                           91.093,
                                 91.094,
                                 91.096
                                 91.002,
                                 91.035,
67-4.5                           91.090,
                                 91.095,
                                 91.119,
                                 91.155
67-12                            91.035
106-402                          91.138
106-403                          91.140
Ch. 121                          34.04
130A-184                         91.039
130A-185                         91.039
130A-190                         91.039
130A-192                         91.039
                                 91.020,
130A-196                         91.039,
                                 91.090,
                                 91.095
130A-198                         91.138
Ch. 132                          34.04
136-141 et seq.                  90.04
136-143                          90.04
143-128                          34.02
143-128.2                        34.02
143-129                          33.35,
                                 33.39
159-7 et seq.                    31.17
159-25                           31.17
159-28                           33.01
159-28(b)                        33.20
159-33                           33.21
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 2        32.56
Ch. 160A, Art. 19, Part 3        32.58
160A-64                          30.05
160A-69                          30.01
160A-70                          30.02
160A-71                          30.21
160A-72                          31.15
160A-74                          30.23
160A-75                          30.23
160A-78                          30.38
160A-79                          30.37
160A-80                          30.03
160A-146                         30.01
160A-164                         30.03
160A-171                         31.15
160A-173                         31.16
                                 34.05,
160A-174                         91.002,
                                 91.003
160A-174(a)                      91.036,
                                 91.037
160A-175                         91.002,
                                 91.005
160A-178                         Ch. 112
160A-181                         Ch. 111,
                                 111.01
160A-182                         91.002
160A-186                         91.002
160A-187                         91.115
160A-189                         131.01
160A-190                         131.01
160A-193                         Ch. 90
160A-266(c)                      34.03
160A-281 et seq.                 32.15
160A-296                         151.15
160A-300                         Ch. 70
160A-300.6                       73.20
160A-303                         Ch. 90,
                                 90.02
160A-303.2                       Ch. 90,
                                 90.02
160A-360                         32.51,
                                 32.55
160A-360(b)                      32.51
160A-361                         32.50
160A-362                         32.50
166A-8                           35.01
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2024 Code
Prior Code       2024 Code
10.01            10.01
10.02            10.02
10.03            10.03
10.04            10.04
10.05            10.05
10.06            10.06
10.07            10.07
10.08            10.08
10.09            10.09
10.10            10.10
10.11            10.11
10.12            10.12
10.13            10.13
10.14            10.14
10.15            10.15
10.16            10.16
10.17            10.17
10.18            10.18
10.99            10.99
30.01            30.01
30.02            30.02
30.03            30.03
30.04            30.04
30.05            30.05
30.15            30.20
30.16            30.21
30.17            30.22
30.18            30.23
30.19            30.24
30.30            30.35
30.31            30.36
30.32            30.37
30.33            30.38
30.34            30.39
31.01            31.01
31.02            31.02
31.03            31.03
31.15            31.15
31.16            31.16
31.17            31.17
32.01            32.01
32.15            32.15
32.16            32.16
32.17            32.17
32.18            32.18
32.19            32.19
32.20            32.20
32.21            32.21
32.30            32.35
32.31            32.36
32.32            32.37
32.45            32.50
32.46            32.51
32.47            32.52
32.48            32.53
32.49            32.54
32.50            32.55
32.51            32.56
32.52            32.57
32.53            32.58
32.54            32.59
33.01            31.30
33.02            31.31
33.03            31.32
34.01            33.01
34.02            33.02
34.03            33.03
34.04            33.04
34.15            33.15
34.16            33.16
34.17            33.17
34.18            33.18
34.19            33.19
34.20            33.20
34.21            33.21
34.35            33.35
34.36            33.36
34.37            33.37
34.38            33.38
34.39            33.39
34.40            33.40
34.41            33.41
35.01            34.01
35.02            34.02
35.03            34.03
35.04            34.04
35.05            34.05,
                 34.99
35.15            34.20
35.16            34.21
35.17            34.22
35.18            34.23
35.19            34.24,
                 34.99
36.01            35.01
36.02            35.02
36.03            35.03
36.04            35.04
36.05            35.05
36.06            35.06
36.07            35.07
36.20            35.20
36.21            35.21
36.22            35.22
36.23            35.23
36.24            35.24
36.25            35.25
36.99            35.99
50.01            50.01
50.02            50.02
50.03            50.03
50.04            50.04
50.05            50.05,
                 50.99
70.01            70.01
70.15            71.01
70.16            71.02
70.17            71.03
70.18            71.04
70.19            71.05
70.20            71.06
70.21            71.07
70.22            71.08
70.23            71.09
70.24            71.10
70.35            70.15
70.36            70.16
70.37            70.17
70.38            70.18
70.99            70.99
71.01            71.25
71.02            71.26
71.03            71.27
71.04            71.28
71.15            72.40
71.16            72.41
71.17            72.42
71.18            72.43
71.19            72.44
72.01            72.01
72.02            72.02
72.03            72.03
72.04            72.04
72.05            72.05
72.06            72.06
72.07            72.07
72.08            72.08
72.09            72.09
72.20            72.25
72.21            72.26
72.22            72.27
72.23            72.28
72.24            72.29
72.35            72.10
72.36            72.11
72.99            72.99
73.01            73.01
73.02            73.02
73.03            73.03
73.04            73.04
73.05            73.05
73.06            73.06
73.07            73.07
73.08            73.08
75.01            73.20
75.02            73.21
75.03            73.22
75.04            73.23
75.05            73.24
75.06            73.25
75.07            73.26
75.08            73.99
Ch. 74, Schd. I  Ch. 74, Schd. I
Ch. 74, Schd. II Ch. 74, Schd. II
90.01            90.01
90.02            90.02
90.03            90.03
90.04            90.04
90.15            90.15
90.16            90.16
90.17            90.17
90.18            90.18
90.19            90.19
90.20            90.20
90.21            90.21
90.22            90.22
90.23            90.23
90.24            90.24
90.25            90.25
91.01            91.001
91.02            91.002
91.03            91.003
91.04            91.004
91.06            91.005
91.07            91.005
91.08            91.005
91.09            91.006
91.10            91.020
91.11            91.021
91.12            91.022
91.20            91.007
91.20.1          91.007
91.20.2          91.007
91.20.3          91.007
91.20.4          91.007
91.20.5          91.007
91.20.6          91.007
91.20.7          91.007
91.20.8          91.007
91.20.9          91.007
91.20.10         91.007
91.20.11         91.007
91.20.12         91.007
91.20.13         91.007
91.20.14         91.007
91.20.15         91.007
91.20.16         91.007
91.20.17         91.007
91.21            91.999
91.22            91.036
91.23            91.037
91.24            91.038
91.25            91.039
91.26            91.040
91.28            91.035
91.29            91.041
91.29.1          91.042
91.29.2          91.042
91.29.3          91.042
91.29.4          91.043
91.29.5          91.043
91.29.6          91.043
91.30            91.055,
                 91.056
91.30.1          91.999
91.31            91.057
91.31.1          91.057
91.32            91.058
91.33            91.059
91.35            91.999
91.35.1          91.999
91.36            91.070
91.37            91.071
91.37.1          91.072
91.37.2          91.072
91.37.3          91.071
91.38            91.073
91.38.1          91.073
91.38.1.1        91.074
91.38.1.2        91.075
91.38.1.3        91.075
91.39.1.4        91.075
91.38.1.5        91.076
91.38.1.6        91.077
91.38.1.7        91.077
91.38.1.8        91.077
91.38.1.9        91.077
91.38.1.10       91.078
91.38.1.11       91.078
91.38.1.12       91.078
91.40            91.090
91.40.1          91.091
91.40.2          91.091
91.40.3          91.092
91.40.4          91.092,
                 91.093
91.41            91.094
91.41.1          91.094
91.41.2          91.094
91.41.3          91.094
91.41.4          91.094
91.42            91.095
91.42.1          91.095
91.43            91.096
91.43.1          91.096
91.43.2          91.096
91.43.3          91.096
91.43.4          91.096
91.44            91.097
91.44.1          91.097
91.44.2          91.097
91.44.3          91.097
91.46            91.097
91.46.1          91.097
91.45            91.098
91.47            91.099
91.47.1          91.099
91.47.2          91.099
91.48            91.100
91.48.1          91.100
91.48.2          91.100
91.49            91.115
91.49.1          91.116
91.50            91.117
91.50.1          91.118
91.50.2          91.119
91.51            91.119
91.51.2          91.119
91.52.3          91.119
91.60            91.130
91.60.1          91.131
91.60.2          91.132,
                 91.133
91.60.3          91.134
91.60.4          91.135
91.60.5          91.131
91.61            91.136
91.61.1          91.136
91.61.2          91.136
91.61.3          91.136
91.62            91.137
91.62.1          91.137
91.62.2          91.137
91.62.3          91.137
91.63            91.137
91.64            91.137
91.65            91.138
91.65.1          91.138
91.65.2          91.138
91.65.3          91.999
91.65.4          91.138
91.66            91.139
91.67            91.139
91.68            91.140
91.68.1          91.999
91.69            91.141
91.69.1          91.141
91.70            91.155
91.71            91.999
91.71.2          91.156
91.72.3          91.156
91.72.4          91.156
91.72.5          91.156
91.72.6          91.157
92.01            92.35
92.02            92.36
92.03            92.37
92.04            92.99
93.01            92.01
93.02            92.02
93.03            92.03
93.04            92.04
93.15            92.15
93.16            92.16
93.17            92.17
93.18            92.18
93.19            92.19
93.20            92.20
93.99            92.99
94.01            151.01
94.15            151.15
94.16            151.16
94.17            151.17
94.18            151.18
94.19            151.19
94.20            151.20
94.21            151.21
94.22            151.22
94.35            151.35
94.36            151.36
94.37            151.37
94.38            151.38
94.39            151.39
94.40            151.40
94.50            93.01
94.51            93.02
94.52            93.03
94.53            93.04
94.54            93.05
94.55            93.06
94.56            93.07
94.57            93.08
94.70            152.01,
                 152.10
94.76            152.02
94.77            152.03
94.78            152.04
94.79            152.05
94.80            152.06
94.81            152.07
94.82            152.08
94.83            152.09
94.84            152.11
94.85            152.12
94.86            152.13
94.87            152.14
94.88            152.15
94.89            152.99
94.90            152.16
94.91            152.17
Ch. 95(A)        150.01
Ch. 95(B)        150.02
Ch. 95(C)        150.03
96.1             150.15
96.2             150.15
96.3             150.15
96.4             150.16
96.5             150.17
110.01           110.01
110.02           110.02
110.03           110.99
111.01           111.01
111.02           111.02
111.03           111.03
111.04           111.04
111.05           111.05
111.06           111.06
111.07           111.07
111.08           111.08
111.20           111.20
111.21           111.21
111.22           111.22
111.23           111.23
111.24           111.24
111.25           111.25
111.26           111.26
112.01           112.01
112.02           112.02
112.03           112.03
130.01           131.01
130.02           130.01
130.03           131.02
130.04           131.03
130.05           130.02
130.06           130.03
130.07           131.04
130.08           131.05,
                 131.99
130.10           130.04,
                 130.99
130.11           130.05,
                 130.99
131.01           131.20
131.02           131.21
131.03           131.22
131.04           131.23
131.05           131.24
131.06           131.25
131.07           131.26
131.08           131.27
131.09           131.99
                 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
1         7-14-1986   131.04
2         7-14-1986   92.01
3         12-8-1986   70.17
4         12-8-1986   72.03
5         12-8-1986   72.27
6         12-8-1986   72.25
7         12-8-1986   72.09
8         12-8-1986   72.05
9         12-8-1986   72.04
10        12-8-1986   72.29
11        12-8-1986   70.15
12        12-8-1986   70.16
                      72.10,
13        3-9-1987    72.11,
                      72.99
14        5-25-1987   131.01
15        6-8-1987    131.01
16        12-1-1987   71.28
-         6-13-1988   Ch. 74, Schd. I
18        8-8-1988    72.09
                      35.01—
                      35.07,
19        1-9-1989    35.20—
                      35.25,
                      35.99
                      92.15,
20        3-13-1989   92.16,
                      92.17
                      90.01—
21        3-12-1990   90.04,
                      90.15—
                      90.25
23        11-11-1991  92.01—
                      92.04
24        9-13-1993   34.05,
                      34.99
-         8-20-1996   Ch. 74, Schd. II
-         5-6-2002    34.24,
                      34.99
-         4-20-2004   32.20
-         10-19-2004  92.20
20        10-19-2004  92.19
-         1-24-2006   10.99,
                      92.99
-         4-4-2006    32.59
-         8-15-2006   92.18
-         9-19-2011   92.15
-         6-16-2014   50.05,
                      50.99
-         8-14-2014   92.15
-         8-18-2014   73.99
290200020 8-18-2014   Ch. 74, Schd. I
-         12-15-2014  92.15
                      150.01—
-         3-16-2015   150.03,
                      150.15—
                      150.17
-         7-20-2015   92.04
-         6-4-2018    150.15—
                      150.17
                      50.05,
-         3-16-2020   50.99,
                      92.15,
                      92.17
 
 
