CRAMERTON, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2025-02, passed 4-15-2025; and
State legislation through 2024 Regular Session #3
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Article I. Incorporation and Corporate Powers
   
1.1.   Incorporation
Article II. Corporate Boundaries
   
2.1.   Corporate Powers
   
2.2.   Corporate Boundaries
Article III. Governing Body
   
3.1.   Structuring of Governing Body
   
3.2.   Board; Composition; Terms of Office
   
3.3.   Mayor; Term of Office; Duties
   
3.4.   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
3.5.   Meetings
   
3.6.   Quorum; Voting
   
3.7.   Compensation; Qualifications for Office; Vacancies
Article IV. Elections
   
4.1.   Regular Municipal Elections
   
4.2.   Special Elections and Referenda
Article V. Administration
   
5.1.   Council-Manager Form
   
5.2.   Town Attorney
   
5.3.   Town Clerk
   
5.4.   Tax Collector
   
5.5.   Administrative Head Appointment
   
5.6.   ...
   
5.7.   Other Appointments
   
5.8.   Residency
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF NORTH CAROLINA
SESSION 2013
SESSION LAW 2013-178
HOUSE BILL 562
AN ACT TO REVISE AND CONSOLIDATE THE CHARTER OF THE
TOWN OF CRAMERTON.
The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts:
   SECTION 1. The Charter of the Town of Cramerton is revised and consolidated
to read as follows:
“THE CHARTER OF THE TOWN OF CRAMERTON.
“ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION AND CORPORATE POWERS.
“Section 1.1. Incorporation. The Town of Cramerton shall continue to be a body
politic and corporate under the name of “Town of Cramerton.” The term “general
law” is employed herein as defined in G.S. 160A-1.
“ARTICLE II. CORPORATE BOUNDARIES.
“Section 2.1. Corporate Powers. The Town shall have and continue to have all of
the powers, duties, rights, privileges, and immunities conferred and imposed on
towns and cities by the general law of North Carolina.
“Section 2.2. Corporate Boundaries. The corporate limits of the Town of
Cramerton shall be and continue to be those existing at the time of the
ratification of this revised Charter, and as the same may be altered from time
to time in accordance with general law.
“ARTICLE III. GOVERNING BODY.
“Section 3.1. Structuring of Governing Body. The Board of Commissioners,
hereinafter referred to as the “Board,” and the Mayor shall be the governing
body of the town.
“Section 3.2. Board; Composition; Terms of Office. The qualified voters of the
entire Town shall elect the Board. The Board shall be composed of five members
to serve staggered terms of four years and until their successors are elected
and qualified. Two members of the Board shall be elected in 2013 and
quadrennially thereafter for four-year terms, and three members shall be
elected in 2015 and quadrennially thereafter for four-year terms.
“Section 3.3. Mayor; Term of Office; Duties. The Mayor shall be elected by the
qualified voters of the Town in 2013 and quadrennially thereafter for a term of
four years and shall serve until a successor is elected and qualified. The
Mayor shall be the official head of the Town government and shall preside at
meetings of the Board. The Mayor shall have the right to vote only when there
is an equal division on any question or matter before the Board and shall
exercise the powers and duties conferred by law and as directed by the Board.
“Section 3.4. Mayor Pro Tempore. In accordance with general law, the Board
shall elect one of its members to act as Mayor Pro Tempore to perform the
duties of the Mayor during the Mayor’s absence or disability.
“Section 3.5. Meetings. In accordance with general law, the Board shall
establish a suitable time and place for its regular meetings. Special and
emergency meetings may be held as provided by general law.
“Section 3.6. Quorum; Voting. Official actions of the Board and all votes shall
be taken in accordance with the applicable provisions of general law,
particularly G.S. 160A-75. A quorum shall be a majority of the members elected
to the Board present and voting.
“Section 3.7. Compensation; Qualifications for Office; Vacancies. The
compensation, qualifications, and filling of vacancies of the Mayor and members
of the Board shall be in accordance with general law, except that vacancies are
filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
“ARTICLE IV. ELECTIONS.
“Section 4.1. Regular Municipal Elections. Regular municipal elections shall be
held in each odd-numbered year in accordance with the uniform municipal
election laws of North Carolina. Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan
basis and the results determined by a plurality as provided in G.S. 163-292.
“Section 4.2. Special Elections and Referenda. Special elections and referenda
may be held only as provided by general law.
“ARTICLE V. ADMINISTRATION.
“Section 5.1. Council-Manager Form. The Town of Cramerton shall operate under a
council-manager form of government as provided in Part 2 of Article 7 of
Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
“Section 5.2. Town Attorney. The Board shall appoint a Town Attorney licensed
to practice law in North Carolina. It shall be the duty of the Town Attorney to
represent the Town, advise Town officials, and perform other duties required by
law or as the Board may direct.
“Section 5.3. Town Clerk. The Board shall appoint a Town Clerk to keep a
journal of the proceedings of the Board, to maintain official records and
documents, to give notice of meetings, and to perform such other clerk duties
required by law or as the Board may direct.
“Section 5.4. Tax Collector. The Board shall appoint a Tax Collector to collect
all taxes owed to the Town and perform those duties specified in G.S. 105-350
and such other duties as prescribed by law or assigned by the Board.
“Section 5.5. Administrative Head Appointment. The Town Manager may appoint
other administration and department heads as permitted by Part 2 of Article 7
of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes, including assignment of administrative
duties to the Town Clerk.
“Sec. 5.6. ...
“Section 5.7. Other Appointments. The Town Manager may authorize other
positions to be filled by appointment and organize the Town governance as
deemed appropriate subject to requirements of general law.
“Section 5.8. Residency. Residency within the corporate limits of the Town is
not required for any office under this Article.”
   SECTION 2. This act does not affect the terms of office of the current Mayor
and Board of Commissioners of the Town of Cramerton.
   SECTION 3. No action or proceeding by any nature (whether civil or criminal,
judicial or administrative, or otherwise) pending at the effective date of this
act by or against the Town of Cramerton or any of its departments or agencies
shall be abated or otherwise affected by enactment of this act.
   SECTION 4. The purpose of this act is to revise the Charter of the Town of
Cramerton and to consolidate herein certain acts concerning the property,
affairs, and government of the Town.
   SECTION 5. Chapter 1061 of the Session Laws of 1967, having been
consolidated into this act, is hereby repealed.
   SECTION 6. This act does not affect the following:
   (1)   S.L. 2005-45 (weeded lot ordinance).
   (2)   G.S. 160A-58.1(b)(5) as it applies to the Town.
   (3)   G.S. 20-171.24 as it applies to the Town.
   (4)   S.L. 2009-429 (Occupancy Tax).
   (5)   S.L. 2003-124 as amended by S.L. 2011-171 (regulation of utility
vehicles).
   SECTION 7. All existing ordinances and resolutions of the Town of Cramerton
and all existing rules and regulations of departments or agencies of the Town
of Cramerton not inconsistent with the provisions of this act shall continue in
full force and effect until repealed, modified, or amended.
   SECTION 8. If any provision of this act or the application thereof to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or application of this act which can be given effect without the
invalid provision or application, and to this end the provisions of this act
are declared to be severable.
   SECTION 9. This act is effective when it becomes law. Those members of the
Board serving on the date of ratification of this Charter shall complete the
remainder of their terms, and their positions shall be filled as the terms
expire.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 20th day of
June, 2013.
s/   Philip E. Berger
President Pro Tempore of the Senate
s/   Thom Tillis
Speaker of the House of Representatives
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Definitions and interpretation
   
10.02   How code cited
   
10.03   Matters included in and excluded from code
   
10.04   Effect of repeal or expiration of code provisions
   
10.05   New provisions considered continuations of similar existing provisions
   
10.06   References to General Statutes that are later amended
   
10.07   Section headings
   
10.08   Computation of time
   
10.09   Delegation of authority
   
10.10   Severability
 
   
10.99   General enforcement and remedies
§ 10.01 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Town Board of Commissioners of the Town of Cramerton.
      CODE. The Code of Ordinances of the Town of Cramerton.
      COUNTY. The County of Gaston, North Carolina.
      PERSON. An individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
firm, partnership, association, organization or other entity acting as a unit.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      TOWN. The Town of Cramerton.
   (B)   Interpretation.
      (1)   Words importing the masculine gender include the feminine and
neuter.
      (2)   Words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the
plural include the singular.
§ 10.02 HOW CODE CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters shall constitute
and may be cited as “The Code of Ordinances of the Town of Cramerton” or more
simply as “The Cramerton Town Code” or “this code”.
§ 10.03 MATTERS INCLUDED IN AND EXCLUDED FROM CODE.
   (A)   This code includes all ordinances intended to be continuing or
permanent (with the following exceptions) and excludes all ordinances relating
to boundaries, zones or locations that must be shown on a map, as well as those
ordinances intended to have only a temporary effect or that must be adopted on
an annual basis.
   (B)   Without limiting the foregoing, the code excludes the following:
      (1)   The annual budget ordinance and any amendment thereto;
      (2)   Any ordinance making an assessment;
      (3)   Any ordinance opening, relocating, closing, altering or naming any
street or alley;
      (4)   Any ordinance relating to zoning map changes;
      (5)   Any ordinance relating to the corporate limits;
      (6)   Any ordinance relating to the classification, salaries,
compensation or bonds of town officers or employees or members of boards or
commissions;
      (7)   Any franchise ordinance; and
      (8)   Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds.
§ 10.04 EFFECT OF REPEAL OR EXPIRATION OF CODE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The repeal of any provision of this code or its expiration by virtue
of any reprovision contained herein shall not affect any right accrued, any
offense committed, any penalty or punishment incurred or any proceeding
commenced before the repeal took effect or the provision expired.
   (B)   Whenever an ordinance that repeals a provision of this code is itself
repealed, the previous code provision shall not be revived without express
words to that effect.
§ 10.05 NEW PROVISIONS CONSIDERED CONTINUATIONS OF SIMILAR EXISTING PROVISIONS.
   Whenever this code is amended by adopting new provisions, insofar as these
new provisions are the same in substance as the previously adopted provisions
they amend or supersede, they shall be considered as continuations thereof and
not as new enactments unless otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.06 REFERENCES TO GENERAL STATUTES THAT ARE LATER AMENDED.
   (A)   Whenever a section, division or sentence begins with “as provided in
G.S.” what follows is a summary of the General Statute section cited. It is
included for information only, and any violation of the cited section will be
punished as provided by state law.
   (B)   Whenever any provisions of this code refers to or cites a section of
the General Statutes of the state and that section is later amended or
superseded, the code provisions shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended
section or the section that most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
§ 10.07 SECTION HEADINGS.
   The section headings of this code are intended as mere catchwords to
indicate the contents of the sections and shall not be construed a part of the
sections or as affecting the meaning or interpretation of the sections.
§ 10.08 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   (A)   The time within which an act is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first and including the last day. If the last day is a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, that day shall be excluded. When the period of time
prescribed or allowed is less than seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays
and holidays shall be excluded.
   (B)   Whenever a person has the right or is required to do some act within a
prescribed period after the service of a notice or another paper upon him or
her and the notice or paper is served by mail, three days shall be added to the
prescribed period.
§ 10.09 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   Unless otherwise specifically provided, whenever a power, duty, function or
responsibility is assigned to a particular official or employee, the official
may delegate the authority to exercise the power or perform the function, but
ultimate responsibility and accountability for the exercise of the power or
performance of the function remains with the official or employee to whom the
power or function is assigned.
§ 10.10 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Board that the sections,
divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code are severable and, if
any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase is declared unconstitutional
or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction in a valid judgment
or decree, the unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect any of the
remaining sections, divisions, sentences, clauses or phrases of this code since
the same would have been enacted by the Board without the incorporation in this
code of any unconstitutional or invalid section, division, sentence, clause or
phrase.
§ 10.99 GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any person shall violate any provision of this code of ordinances,
except any provision regulating the operation or parking of vehicles, he or she
shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days.
(G.S. § 14-4(a))
   (B)   (1)   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be enforced through
the issuance of civil penalties. Subsequent citations for the same violation
may be issued if the violation is not corrected after issuance of the civil
penalties.
      (2)   The following civil penalties are hereby established:
 
Warning Citation                        Correct Violation within Five Days
First citation                          $100
Second citation (for same offense)      $250
Third and subsequent citation (for same $500 for each violation thereafter
offense)
 
      (3)   If the offender fails to pay the civil penalties which have been
cited within three days after the citation, the town may recover the civil
penalties in a civil action in the nature of debt.
      (4)   Any provision of this code of ordinances may be enforced by an
appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent jurisdiction.
Any provision of this code of ordinances that makes unlawful a condition
existing upon or use made of real property may be enforced by injunction and
order of abatement issued by the General Court of Justice.
      (5)   It is the town’s intent in this section to exercise any and all
remedies authorized by G.S. § 160A-175. The above remedies shall be cumulative,
and the town may pursue any or all of the same in its discretion.
      (6)   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense.
      (7)   Unless otherwise specifically provided in other sections of this
code of ordinances, the remedies specified herein shall apply to all sections,
chapters and titles of this code of ordinances, whether enumerated therein or
not. Specific remedy sections may also alter or add remedies not specified
herein for particular violations of particular provisions.
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-175
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town seal
§ 11.01 TOWN SEAL.
   The seal of the town shall be a metallic seal and shall be circular in shape
with the words “Town of Cramerton, North Carolina” on the outer margin thereof
and with the word “Seal” in the center thereof. The seal shall be so
constructed that it shall impress its image on paper and shall be kept in the
custody of the Town Clerk.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
      
33.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   CIVIL EMERGENCY
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Reference to Robert’s Rules of Order
   
30.02   Appointments
Meetings; Procedures
   
30.15   Regular meetings
   
30.16   Special meetings
   
30.17   Emergency meetings
   
30.18   Continued or recessed meetings
   
30.19   Agenda
   
30.20   Order of business
   
30.21   Presiding officer
   
30.22   Quorum
   
30.23   Taking official action
   
30.24   Debate
   
30.25   Voting
   
30.26   Adoption of ordinances
   
30.27   Closed sessions
   
30.28   Public hearings
   
30.29   Minutes
Charter-reference:
   Mayor and Board of Commissioners, see
Charter Art. III
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 REFERENCE TO ROBERT’S RULES OF ORDER.
   Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern all procedural matters not addressed by
the provisions of this chapter, the Town Charter or the Board’s own rules of
procedures should any be duly adopted. However, no action taken by the Board
shall be invalidated by a failure to abide by Robert’s Rules of Order.
§ 30.02 APPOINTMENTS.
   Unless the Board chooses to follow another procedure, the Board shall use
the following procedure to appoint individuals to various subordinate boards,
committees and offices.
   (A)   The Mayor shall open the floor to nominations, whereupon the names of
possible appointees shall be put forward by the members and debated. Upon the
conclusion of the debates, the Mayor shall propose each name in alphabetical
order, and the members shall cast their votes.
   (B)   If only one appointee is to be selected, the voting shall continue
until one nominee receives a majority of the votes cast, whereupon he or she
shall be appointed.
   (C)   If more than one appointee is to be selected, then each member shall
have as many votes as there are slots to be filled. A member must cast all of
his or her votes, and cast them for different nominees. The nominees receiving
the highest number of votes shall be appointed.
   (D)   The Board may, by unanimous action, make an appointment by
acclamation, consensus or a simple motion to appoint.
MEETINGS; PROCEDURES
§ 30.15 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meetings of the Board shall be held at the Town Hall on
dates established by the Board’s duly adopted annual calendar. All regularly
scheduled meetings shall convene at 7:00 p.m.
   (B)   All meetings shall be held in accordance with the provisions set forth
in G.S. §§ 143-318.12 and 160A-71.
§ 30.16 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   A special meeting is any non-emergency meeting of the Board held at
any time other than that specified in §
30.15 of this chapter. Special meetings shall be held in accordance with the
provisions set forth in G.S. §§ 143-318.12 and 160A-71.
   (B)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any two members of the Board may
at any time call a special meeting by signing a written statement stating the
time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of the meeting shall be given to Board members as provided in
this division (C), preferably 48 hours, but no less than six hours, before the
meeting. The following shall occur:
      (1)   Written notice shall be delivered personally to each Board member.
      (2)   If notice cannot be personally delivered, notice may be left at the
Board member’s usual place of dwelling and also at his or her place of
business. In this event, the Town Clerk shall make every reasonable effort to
contact the Board member by telephone or e-mail.
   (D)   Special meetings may also be held when all Board members are present
and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a written waiver of
notice; provided that, the notice to the media required by division (E) below
is given.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of a special meeting to the public
and the media, at least 48 hours before the meeting, by all of the following
methods:
      (1)   Posting a notice of the time and place of the meeting on the door
of the Board’s usual meeting room;
      (2)   Mailing or delivering notice of the meeting to each of the media
who has requested it in accordance with the Open Meetings Law; and
      (3)   Mailing or delivering notice of the meeting to any person who has
filed with the Clerk a written request for it in accordance with the Open
Meetings Law.
   (F)   Only those items of business specified in the notice may be transacted
at a special meeting unless all members are present or have signed a written
waiver of notice.
§ 30.17 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   An emergency meeting is a meeting of the Board called because of
generally unexpected circumstances that require immediate consideration held in
accordance with the provisions set forth in G.S. §§ 143-318.12 and 160A-71.
   (B)   The Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore or any two members of the Board may
at any time call an emergency meeting by signing a written statement stating
the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
   (C)   Notice of the meeting shall be given to Board members in the same
manner as notice of special meetings.
   (D)   Emergency meetings may also be held when all Board members are present
and consent thereto or when those not present have signed a written waiver of
notice; provided that, the notice to the media required by division (E) below
is given.
   (E)   The Town Clerk shall give notice of any emergency meeting to each of
the media who has requested it in accordance with the Open Meetings Law. This
notice shall be given either by telephone or by the same method used to notify
Board members and shall be given immediately after the notice has been given to
those members.
   (F)   Only business connected with the emergency may be transacted at an
emergency meeting.
§ 30.18 CONTINUED OR RECESSED MEETINGS.
   (A)   By majority vote, the Board may continue or recess any regular,
special or emergency meeting to any place and time specified in the motion to
continue or recess the meeting.
   (B)   No further notice need be given of any continued or recessed session
of a meeting set in accordance with division (A) above.
§ 30.19 AGENDA.
   (A)   Preparation. The Town Manager or his or her designee shall prepare the
agenda for the meeting.
   (B)   Requests by elected officials to be placed on agenda. A request to
have any item of business placed on the agenda must be received by the Town
Clerk 72 hours prior to any meeting so that the agenda may be printed and made
available in the Town Clerk’s office.
   (C)   Contents. The agenda packet for the Mayor and Board members shall
include, for each item of business placed on the agenda, as much background
information on the subject as is available and feasible to reproduce. Whenever
possible, a copy of all proposed ordinances shall be attached to the agenda and
distributed simultaneously.
   (D)   Approved agenda. Additions, deletions or changes in the order of
business on the agenda shall be upon approval of the agenda by majority vote of
the Board.
§ 30.20 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Items of business shall be taken up at a meeting in the order that
they appear on the agenda, except as provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   In establishing the order of business, the Board may direct broad
categories of business to be included as agenda items, such as members of the
public wishing to be heard, matters by the Town Clerk, Manager’s report, old
and new business and the like.
   (C)   Items may be considered out of order by consent of all members present
or by majority vote upon a motion.
§ 30.21 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at meetings of the Board, except as provided
in division (C) below. A member must be recognized by the Mayor in order to
address the Board.
   (B)   As presiding officer, the Mayor shall have the following powers, in
addition to those conferred elsewhere in this chapter, the Town Charter and the
General Statutes:
      (1)   To rule motions in or out of order, including the right to rule out
of order any motion patently offered for obstructive or dilatory purposes;
      (2)   To determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule upon objections
from other members on this ground;
      (3)   To entertain and answer questions of parliamentary law or
procedure, subject to being overruled by a two-thirds vote of the membership of
the Board;
      (4)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
      (5)   To adjourn in the event of an emergency.
   (C)   If the Mayor becomes actively engaged in debate on a particular
proposal, he or she may delegate the duty to preside over the debate to the
Mayor Pro Tempore or to any other member of the Board who is not so engaged and
who acquiesces in the delegation. The temporary Chairperson may only preside
over the debate and may not participate in it; however, he or she does not
forfeit his or her right to vote on the issue by acting as temporary
Chairperson. The Mayor shall resume the duty to preside as soon as action upon
the matter is concluded.
§ 30.22 QUORUM.
   Quorum shall be a majority of the members elected to the Board of
Commissioners present and voting. Affirmative vote of a majority of the members
of the Board of Commissioners that are present and voting shall be necessary to
take action on matters of business, except as otherwise required by statute.
§ 30.23 TAKING OFFICIAL ACTION.
   (A)   The Board shall proceed by motion. A motion, when duly seconded,
brings the matter before the Board for its contribution.
   (B)   A motion may be withdrawn by the introducer at any time prior to a
vote if the member who seconded the motion concurs.
   (C)   Subject to §
30.26 of this chapter and other provisions of law, official action of the Board
shall be by affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Commissioners present and voting, except as otherwise required by state
statute.
§ 30.24 DEBATE.
   (A)   Once a motion has been stated and seconded, the Mayor shall open the
floor to debate upon it.
   (B)   The Mayor shall preside over the debate according to the following
general principles:
      (1)   The member who makes the motion is entitled to speak first;
      (2)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken; and
      (3)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between
proponents of the measure.
§ 30.25 VOTING.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have the power to vote when his or her vote is
necessary to break a tie vote of the Board members present and voting. Once the
Mayor is physically present at a Board meeting, any subsequent failure to vote
when his or her vote is necessary to break a tie shall be recorded as an
affirmative vote unless the Mayor is excused from voting in accordance with
division (C) below or has been allowed to withdraw from the meeting in
accordance with division (D) below. In those divisions, the term member shall
be deemed to include the Mayor when applicable.
   (B)   Once a member is physically present at a Board meeting, any subsequent
failure to vote shall be recorded as an affirmative vote unless the member has
been excused from voting in accordance with division (C) below or has been
allowed to withdraw from the meeting in accordance with division (D) below.
   (C)   A member may be excused from voting on a particular issue in
accordance with the provisions set forth in G.S. § 160A-75 by majority vote of
the remaining members present if the matter at issue involves that member’s own
financial interest or official conduct or is otherwise a grounds for excusal
pursuant to any other applicable state statute.
   (D)   A member may be allowed to withdraw from the entire remainder of a
meeting by majority vote of the remaining members present for any good and
sufficient reason other than the member’s desire to avoid voting on matters to
be considered at that meeting.
   (E)   A motion to allow a member to be excused from voting or excused from
the remainder of the meeting is only in order if made by or at the initiative
of the member directly affected.
   (F)   A roll call vote shall be taken upon the request of any member.
   (G)   When this chapter specifies that action shall be taken by majority
vote or fails to specify the vote required, that shall be interpreted to mean a
vote of the majority of those present and not excused from voting. When a two-
thirds vote is required, that shall be interpreted to mean a vote of two-thirds
of those present and not excused from voting. When a vote of certain percentage
of the Board membership is required, that shall be interpreted to mean the
specified percentage of all seats on the Board, excluding vacant seats.
§ 30.26 ADOPTION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   An affirmative vote of a majority of the members elected to the Board
of Commissioners shall be necessary to adopt ordinances.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 159 (Local Government Finance),
no ordinance, nor any action having the effect of any ordinance, may be finally
adopted on the date on which it is introduced except by an affirmative vote
equal to or greater than two-thirds of the Board membership. When an ordinance
requires a public hearing, the ordinance shall be considered introduced in
accordance with the provisions set forth in G.S. § 160A-75.
   (C)   Franchise ordinances and amendments shall be adopted in accordance
with the provisions set forth in G.S. § 160A-76.
§ 30.27 CLOSED SESSIONS.
   The Board may hold closed sessions in accordance with the Open Meetings Law
(G.S. Ch. 143, Art. 33C) and other provisions of law. The Board shall commence
a closed session by a majority vote to do so and shall terminate a closed
session in the same manner. The minutes from closed sessions may be withheld
from public inspection so long as public inspection would frustrate the purpose
of the closed session.
§ 30.28 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   Public hearings by the Board shall be held in accordance with G.S. § 160A-81
and shall be held and noticed as required by state statute, this chapter or the
Town Charter.
§ 30.29 MINUTES.
   Minutes shall be kept of all meetings of the Board by the Town Clerk and, in
his or her absence, by the Town Attorney in accordance with G.S. § 160A-72.
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Oaths and bonds of officers and employees
Town Officers
   
31.15   Town Manager
   
31.16   Personnel responsibilities of Town Manager
   
31.17   Town Clerk
   
31.18   Town Attorney
   
31.19   Finance Director
   
31.20   Tax Collector
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 OATHS AND BONDS OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   All officers and employees appointed by the Board shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board, in their appointed functions, except as otherwise
provided by law, and shall receive for their services’ compensation as may be
established annually in the budget ordinance.
   (B)   The Board shall prescribe the required bond for each officer or
employee as required by the General Statutes.
   (C)   All town officers required to take an oath shall take the following
oath before beginning their duties.
      “I,                       , do solemnly swear (affirm) that I will
support and maintain the Constitution and laws of the United States and the
Constitution and laws of North Carolina not inconsistent therewith and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of my office as               so help me
God.”
TOWN OFFICERS
§ 31.15 TOWN MANAGER.
   The Board shall appoint a Manager to serve at its pleasure and he or she
shall administer the business of the town in accordance with G.S. § 160A-148.
§ 31.16 PERSONNEL RESPONSIBILITIES OF TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Administrative responsibilities. The Town Manager shall be responsible
to the Board for the administration and technical direction of the personnel
program. The Town Manager shall appoint, suspend and remove all officers and
employees, except those elected by the people or those whose appointment is
otherwise provided for by law. The Town Manager shall make appointment,
dismissal and suspensions in accordance with the Charter and other policies and
procedures specified in the town’s personnel policies. More specifically, the
Town Manager shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Recommend rules and revisions to the personnel system to the Board
for consideration;
      (2)   Determine the administrative, professional and managerial positions
to be excluded from entitlement to overtime compensation as provided by
applicable state and federal law;
      (3)   Establish and maintain a roster of all persons in the town service,
setting forth each officer and employee position classification, salary, any
changes in position classification and status and data as may be deemed
desirable or useful;
      (4)   Develop and administer the recruiting programs as may be necessary
to obtain an adequate supply of competent applicants to meet the needs of the
town;
      (5)   Develop and coordinate training and education programs for town
employees;
      (6)   Investigate periodically the operation and effect of the town’s
personnel policies and report his or her findings and recommendation to the
Board;
      (7)   Develop and maintain an adequate personnel records system subject
to the provisions of the town’s personnel policies; and
      (8)   Perform other personnel duties as may be assigned to him or her by
the Board or pursuant to state statute.
   (B)   Position classification plan.
      (1)   The Town Manager shall be responsible for the administration and
maintenance of the position classification plan so that it will accurately
reflect the duties performed by employees in the classes to which their
positions are allocated. Department heads shall be responsible for bringing to
the attention of the Manager the need for new positions and material changes in
the nature of duties, responsibilities, working conditions or other factors
affecting the classifications of existing positions.
      (2)   New positions shall be established only with the approval of the
Board, after which the Town Manager shall either allocate the new plan or
recommend to the Board that it amend the position classification plan to
establish a new class to which the new position may be allocated.
      (3)   When the Town Manager finds that a substantial change has occurred
in the nature or level of duties and responsibilities of an existing position,
he or she shall do the following:
         (a)   Direct that the existing class specification be revised;
         (b)   Reallocate the position to the appropriate class within the
existing classification plan; and
         (c)   Recommend that the Board amend the position classification plan
to establish a new class to which the position may be allocated.
      (4)   The Board may, upon the recommendation of the Town Manager, add
classes of positions to or delete them from the position classification plan.
   (C)   Human Resources Coordinator. The Town Manager may appoint a Human
Resources Coordinator to assist him or her in performing his or her personnel-
related responsibilities and may delegate to the Personnel Director the
responsibilities and duties (except the authority to hire and dismiss
personnel), as the Manager deems appropriate.
§ 31.17 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   As provided by state statute, the Board shall appoint a Town Clerk to
serve at its pleasure, in the performance of his or her clerk duties.
   (B)   The Clerk shall give notice of Board meetings, keep a journal of Board
proceedings, be custodian of all town records entrusted to him or her, and
perform any other duties that may be required, by law, by the Board or by the
Town Manager.
   (C)   In addition, the Board may appoint or provide for one or more Deputy
Town Clerks who shall have full authority to exercise and perform any of the
powers and duties of the Town Clerk that it may specify.
§ 31.18 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   (A)   As provided in the state statutes, the Board shall appoint a Town
Attorney to serve at its pleasure and shall prescribe his or her duties and fix
his or her rate of compensation.
   (B)   The Board may appoint or provide for one or more Associate or
Assistant Town Attorneys who shall receive compensation as may be fixed by the
Board and shall have full authority to exercise and perform any of the powers
and duties of the Town Attorney that may be specified by the Board or the Town
Attorney.
§ 31.19 FINANCE DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Town Manager may employ a Finance Director at his or her
discretion.
   (B)   The duties of the Finance Director shall be as follows:
      (1)   Keep the town’s accounts in accordance with generally accepted
principles of governmental accounting and the rules and regulations of the
state’s Local Government Commission;
      (2)   Disburse all funds of the town in strict compliance with the
state’s Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act, the budget ordinance
and each project ordinance, and pre-audit obligations and disbursements as
required by the state’s Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act;
      (3)   Prepare and file with the Board a statement of its financial
condition of the town whenever requested to do so by the Board or the Town
Manager;
      (4)   Receive and deposit all monies accruing to the town and supervise
the receipt and deposit of money by other duly authorized officers or
employees;
      (5)   Maintain all records concerning the town’s bonded debt, and
determine the amount of money that will be required for debt service during
each fiscal year, and maintain all sinking funds;
      (6)   Supervise the investment of the town’s idle funds; and
      (7)   Perform other duties as may be assigned to him or her by law, by
the Town Manager or by rules and regulations of the state’s Local Government
Commission.
§ 31.20 TAX COLLECTOR.
   The town may appoint a Tax Collector pursuant to state statute or by
agreement designate another government unit to perform this function. The town
by agreement has designated the county to serve as the town’s Tax Collector in
accordance with applicable state statutes.
CHAPTER 32: POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS
Section
   
32.01   Police Department
   
32.02   Auxiliary law enforcement personnel
   
32.03   Fire Department
§ 32.01 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall consist of a Chief of Police and as many
other officers as may be budgeted by the Board, hired by the Chief of Police
and approved by the Town Manager.
   (B)   The Police Department shall be operated in accordance with the Board
approved budget, all applicable requirements of G.S. Ch. 160A and any other
applicable state statutes.
§ 32.02 AUXILIARY LAW ENFORCEMENT PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Auxiliary law enforcement personnel may be appointed by the Chief of
Police and approved by the Town Manager. The auxiliary personnel shall be
regarded in all respects as part-time employees and shall be subject to the
town’s personnel policy. The terms “auxiliary law enforcement personnel” and
“reserve police officer” shall be synonymous.
   (B)   Duly appointed auxiliary law enforcement officers shall, while
training and while performing duties on behalf of the town incidental to other
appointments, be entitled to worker’s compensation benefits to the same extent
as other town employees. Compensation payments to the personnel shall be based
upon the entrance salary of a town police officer at the time of the injury.
   (C)   Upon approval of the Board, an auxiliary police officer who is
disabled by injuries received in the line of duty for the Police Department
shall be eligible for the following benefits.
      (1)   The auxiliary police officer shall receive the full salary
equivalent to that paid to full-time police officers at the entry level for the
first 60 working days of the disability; provided that, any payment which the
employee receives for this period under worker’s compensation laws shall be
deducted from the sum paid by the town.
      (2)   If the disability continues beyond 60 working days, the auxiliary
police officer may be granted additional benefits under the conditions outlined
in division (C)(1) above upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police, Town
Manager and with the approval of the Board.
   (D)   The town shall be entitled to the same immunities with respect to the
action of auxiliary police officers in the performance of their duties or
training or otherwise, to which it is entitled with respect to the actions of
regular police officers in the performance of their duties.
§ 32.03 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall consist of a Fire Chief and as many
employees and volunteers as budgeted by the Board, appointed by the Fire Chief
and approved by the Town Manager.
   (B)   The Fire Department shall be operated in accordance with the Board
approved budget, all applicable requirements of G.S. Ch. 160A and any other
applicable state statutes.
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning and Regulation of Development
   
33.01   Planning Department
   
33.02   Building Inspections Division
   
33.03   Planning and Zoning Board and Board of Adjustment
   
33.04   Beautification Committee
Public Works
   
33.15   Public Works Department
Parks and Recreation
   
33.30   Parks and Recreation Department
   
33.31   Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
PLANNING AND REGULATION OF DEVELOPMENT
§ 33.01 PLANNING DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be a Planning Department under the direction and control of a
Planning Director appointed by the Town Manager. The Planning Department shall
have primary responsibility for carrying out all town functions related to
planning, community development, Land Development Code and Floodplain
Ordinance. The Planning Department shall also perform any other duties assigned
by the Town Manager.
§ 33.02 BUILDING INSPECTIONS DIVISION.
   (A)   The inspection of buildings for State Building Code purposes shall be
under the jurisdiction and responsibility of the county.
   (B)   The enforcement of the town’s Minimum Housing Code shall be in the
jurisdiction of the Town’s Police Department.
§ 33.03 PLANNING AND ZONING BOARD AND BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Planning and Zoning Board and the Board of Adjustment shall be
established pursuant to the Land Development Code.
§ 33.04 BEAUTIFICATION COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to enhance and improve the
visual quality and aesthetic characteristics of the town and areas within the
town’s zoning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Mission, goals, objectives.
      (1)   For the purposes cited above, and for promoting the general welfare
of the town and its citizens, the Town Board does hereby ordain, adopt and
enact this section in its entirety, which shall be known as the “Cramerton
Beautification Committee Ordinance”.
      (2)   The mission of the town’s Beautification Commission shall be to
enhance the visual quality and aesthetic characteristics of the town by
advising and assisting the Town Board in:
         (a)   To initiate, promote and assist in the implementation of
programs of general community beautification in the town, subject to the
concurrence of the Town Board;
         (b)   Fostering neighborhood pride;
         (c)   Seek to coordinate, while not representing the Town Board or
management without prior authorization, the activities of individuals, agencies
and organizations, public and private, whose plans, activities or programs bear
upon the appearance of the town;
         (d)   To make studies of the visual characteristics and problems of
the town, including surveys and inventories of an appropriate nature, and to
recommend standards and policies of design for the entire area, any portion or
neighborhood thereof, or any project to be undertaken;
         (e)   Promoting and disseminating “best management practices”; that
are good examples of enhancing community appearance for residential, commercial
and public sites;
         (f)   Acknowledging achievement and excellence of citizens in
fulfilling the purposes of this section;
         (g)   Showcasing natural and architectural beauty;
         (h)   Encouraging appealing: community entrances; seasonal or holiday
decorations; and signage;
         (i)   Encouraging well planned, coordinated tree planting,
preservation and maintenance throughout the town;
         (j)   Reviewing and advising the Town Board, or the Town Department
designated by the Board, as to the appearance of publicly owned or maintained
property and spaces;
         (k)   Reviewing and advising the Planning Department as to compliance
with the town’s ordinances regarding sanitation, public works, housing and
other regulations affecting the community appearance;
         (l)   Discouraging littering and blight;
         (m)   To prepare both general and specific plans for the improved
appearance of the town. These plans may include the entire area or any part
thereof, and may include private as well as public property. The plans shall
set forth desirable standards and goals for the aesthetic enhancement of the
town or any part thereof within its area of planning and zoning jurisdiction,
including private ways and areas and open spaces; and
         (n)   Administer the town’s Facade Grant Program.
   (C)   General governing document. The Beautification Committee shall be
governed by the regulations contained herein. For matters not covered by these
by-laws, the Committee shall follow the rules contained in the current edition
of Robert’s Rules of Order. The Committee shall serve only as an advisory board
regarding the appearance and beautification of the town. The Committee does
have the authority to administer the town’s Facade Grant Program. The Committee
shall serve as a forum for the introduction of innovative and new ideas,
concepts, programs, policies and procedures.
   (D)   Membership. The Beautification Committee membership shall consist of
nine members, of which seven shall be voting members and two shall be
alternates each appointed to three-year terms. Three members’ terms expire each
year, so that the staggered terms provide for continuity of leadership and
experience while allowing for new members with fresh ideas. Terms shall run
from January 1 in the year appointed to December 31 of the expiration year. All
members shall be current residents of the town, and will apply to the Board of
Commissioners. Any member seeking reappointment must submit an updated
application that addresses the willingness to serve an additional term. The
Town Planning Director will serve as Town Staff Liaison, and a member of the
Board of Commissioners (BOC) will be appointed annually to serve as Board
Liaison to the Beautification Committee. If a Committee member resigns during
his or her term, the alternate with the longest service will finish out the
term of that member, and a new alternate will be appointed by the BOC to finish
out the alternate position’s term.
   (E)   Compensation and expenses. The members of the Committee shall serve at
the pleasure of the Town Board without compensation, but shall be entitled to
reimbursement for subsistence and travel to appropriate professional meetings
and workshops, with such reimbursement being made in compliance with the town’s
Personnel Policy Travel Reimbursement Policy.
   (F)   Attendance at meetings. Faithful and prompt attendance at all meetings
of the Committee and conscientious performance of the duties required of
members shall be imperative to continuing membership on the Committee. Should a
member of the Beautification Committee fail to attend three consecutive
meetings or attendance is less than 60% in any 12-month period, the Chairperson
shall contact the member to determine his or her interest in continuing to
serve on the Committee. Should there be no reasonable excuse for such absences,
the Chairperson, with the concurrence of a quorum of the Committee present at a
regular meeting, may recommend to the Town Board that a vacancy be declared and
request that the vacant position be filled.
   (G)   Officers.
      (1)   Chairperson. The Chairperson will be elected by the members of the
Beautification Committee at the first meeting in January of each year. The
Chairperson is eligible for re-election, shall preside at each meeting and
shall decide on all points of order and procedure. The Chairperson shall vote
on all matters before the Committee and is granted extraordinary voting powers
(an extra vote) in the case of a tie vote. The Chairperson will work with staff
to establish an agenda for each meeting. Upon resignation or some incapacity
visited upon the Chairperson, the Committee shall elect a new Chairperson
within 90 days to complete the existing term of office.
      (2)   Secretary. A Secretary shall be elected by the Committee from its
members in the same manner as the Chairperson and shall be eligible for re-
election. The Secretary shall take minutes of all meetings and causes the
minutes to be printed and made available to the Town Board, Town Manager and
other members of the Beautification Committee each month.
   (H)   Voting. All voting members of the Committee shall vote on every issue,
except in a situation where a member of the Committee shall be excused from
voting, by the Chairperson, on matters involving direct personal or financial
interest. In the event that a member abstains from voting for reasons other
than direct personal or financial interest, the abstention shall be ruled by
the Chairperson as an affirmative vote. An alternate member may vote in the
absence of a voting member. The Chairperson will have the right to vote and
will also have the authority to break a tie vote with extraordinary voting
powers (an extra vote).
   (I)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Committee shall be held
on the first Monday night of each month at 5:30 p.m. in the Board chambers of
Town Hall.
      (2)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Committee shall be held
at a time and place designated by the Chairperson, any two Committee members or
the Town Manager, providing at least 48 hours of notice is provided to all
members.
      (3)   Cancellation of meetings. When there is no business for the
Committee, monthly meetings may be canceled. Notice will be given to all
members of such cancellation.
      (4)   Quorum. A quorum consists of a majority of the Committee
membership. A quorum is four of seven members.
      (5)   Conduct of meetings. All meetings shall be open to the public. The
order of business at Committee meetings shall be as follows:
         (a)   Determination of a quorum;
         (b)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting;
         (c)   Old business;
         (d)   New business; and
         (e)   Adjournment.
      (6)   Change in by-laws. The by-laws may be amended by a majority of the
full Committee and overall approval by the Town Board.
      (7)   Public record. All records of the Beautification Committee shall be
made available to the public in accordance with North Carolina General
Statutes.
   (J)   Subcommittees. Any time that the Board of Commissioners or
Beautification Committee deems there is a specific need for enhanced focus for
a major project or ongoing effort, a subcommittee may be formed. Such
subcommittee must be approved by a majority vote of the Town Board of
Commissioners. The number of members on said Board should be no less than five,
but may be as many as the Beautification Committee deems appropriate due to
amount of effort expected. Any subcommittee should have at least two members of
the Beautification Committee among its membership, but no more than 40% of the
subcommittee shall also serve on the Beautification Committee either voting or
non- voting members (i.e., a subcommittee of five members should have no more
or less than two Board members while a subcommittee of nine members must have
at least two Board members, but no more than three members). The formation of a
subcommittee will have a document outlining the specific duties,
responsibilities and goals, as well as what goals/timelines need to be met for
the dissolution of the subcommittee.
   (K)   Conflict with other ordinances and resolutions. These by-laws shall
supersede any earlier adopted ordinance or resolution of the Town Board
pertaining to the Beautification Committee of which are or may become in
conflict with the provision of this section.
PUBLIC WORKS
§ 33.15 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be a Public Works Department under the direction and control of
a Public Works Director appointed by the Town Manager. The Public Works
Department shall have primary responsibility for refuse collection and disposal
and street construction and maintenance. The Public Works Department shall also
perform any other duties assigned by the Town Manager.
PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 33.30 PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT.
   There shall be a Parks and Recreation Department under the direction of the
Parks and Recreation Director appointed by the Town Manager. The Parks and
Recreation Department shall have primary responsibility for organizing and
operating the municipal recreation program and shall be in charge of operating
the municipal recreation program and shall be in charge of all town parks and
recreation equipment and facilities. The Parks and Recreation Department shall
also perform any other duties assigned by the Town Manager.
§ 33.31 PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the town’s Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
is to perform studies, to make recommendations on recreation policy and grant
activities, to commission recreation and park studies and to offer advice and
assistance to the Town Board and others, as necessary or as requested on the
development of parks and recreation plans and activities with the town. These
duties will include:
      (1)   To investigate and determine the needs, interests and goals of the
community for recreation facilities and programs and make recommendations to
the Town Board to meet those needs and goals;
      (2)   To inform and educate the general public of the importance and need
for park and recreation programs, greenways, facilities and services;
      (3)   To make recommendations to the Town Board on acceptance of public
dedication of land or fee in lieu of the dedication of land for park,
recreation and open space as required by the town’s Land Development Code;
      (4)   To seek and make recommendations on the acceptance of grants,
gifts, bequests, donations and personal or real property for park, greenway and
recreation purposes;
      (5)   To assist the town in developing cooperative arrangements with
other organizations and private groups, when it will further the objective of
providing more and varied kinds of park and recreation programs for the
citizens of the community;
      (6)   To assist the town in recruiting voluntary leadership staff to work
with park/recreation facilities, programs and activities;
      (7)   To assist in matters relating in maintaining the highest standards
in park development and operation, park/recreation leadership and in well-
balanced programs;
      (8)   To assist in developing a comprehensive master plan to meet the
present and future needs for programs, services, park facilities, open spaces
and trails and to advise in developing priorities for each of these;
      (9)   To receive information and reports from staff concerning the
evaluation of programs, facilities, policies and procedures; and
      (10)   Upon request, recommend approval of rules and procedures
pertaining to the use of public parks and facilities including suggested fees
and charges.
   (B)   General governing document. The Parks and Recreation Advisory
Committee shall be governed by the regulations contained herein. For matters
not covered by these by-laws, the Committee shall follow the rules contained in
the current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order. The Committee shall serve only
as an advisory board regarding the recreation policy of the town. The Committee
shall make general recommendations only, and shall not directly exercise
administrative or supervisory authority or responsibility over the Parks and
Recreation Department staff. The Committee shall serve as a forum for the
introduction of innovative and new ideas, concepts, programs, policies and
procedures.
   (C)   Membership. The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board membership shall
consist of nine members of which seven shall be voting members and two shall be
alternates each appointed to three- year terms. Three members’ terms expire
each year, so that the staggered terms provide for continuity of leadership and
experience while allowing for new members with fresh ideas. Terms shall run
from January 1 in the year appointed to December 31 of the expiration year. All
members shall be current residents of the town and will apply to the Board of
Commissioners. Any member seeking reappointment must submit an updated
application that addresses the willingness to serve an additional term. The
Parks and Recreation Director, or his or her designee, will serve as the town’s
Staff Liaison, and a member of the Board of Commissioners will be appointed
annually to serve as the Board of Commissioner Liaison to the Parks and
Recreation Advisory Board. If an Advisory Board member resigns during his or
her term, the alternate with the longest service will finish out the term of
that member, and a new alternate will be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners to finish out the alternate position’s term.
   (D)   Compensation and expenses. The members of the Committee shall serve at
the pleasure of the Town Board without compensation, but shall be entitled to
reimbursement for subsistence and travel to appropriate professional recreation
meetings and workshops, with such reimbursement being made in compliance with
the town’s Personnel Policy Travel Reimbursement Policy.
   (E)   Attendance at meetings. Faithful and prompt attendance at all meetings
of the Committee and conscientious performance of the duties required of
members shall be imperative to continuing membership on the Board. Should a
member of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee fail to attend three
consecutive meetings or attendance is less than 60% in any 12-month period, the
Chairperson shall contact the member to determine his or her interest in
continuing to serve on the Committee. Should there be no reasonable excuse for
such absences, the Chairperson, with the concurrence of a quorum of the
Committee present at a regular meeting, may recommend to the Town Board that a
vacancy be declared and request that the vacant position be filled.
   (F)   Officers.
      (1)   Chairperson. The Chairperson will be elected by the members of the
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee at the first meeting in January of each
year. The Chairperson is eligible for re-election, shall preside at each
meeting and shall decide on all points of order and procedure. The Chairperson
shall vote on all matters before the Committee and is granted extraordinary
voting powers (an extra vote) in the case of a tie vote. The Chairperson will
work with staff to establish an agenda for each meeting. Upon resignation or
some incapacity visited upon the Chairperson, the Committee shall elect a new
Chairperson within 90 days to complete the existing term of office.
      (2)   Secretary. A Secretary shall be elected by the Committee from its
members in the same manner as the Chairperson and shall be eligible for re-
election. The Secretary shall take minutes of all meetings and causes the
minutes to be printed and made available to the Town Board, Town Manager and
other members of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee each month. The
Secretary can delegate minute taking to the Parks and Recreation Director or
his or her designee.
   (G)   Voting. All voting members of the Committee shall vote on every issue,
except in a situation where a member of the Committee shall be excused from
voting, by the Chairperson, on matters involving direct personal or financial
interest. In the event that a member abstains from voting for reasons other
than direct personal or financial interest, the abstention shall be ruled by
the Chairperson as an affirmative vote. An alternate member may vote in the
absence of a voting member. The Chairperson will have the right to vote and
will also have the authority to break a tie vote with extraordinary voting
powers (an extra vote).
   (H)   Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Committee shall be held
on the third Monday night of each month at 7:00 p.m. in the Board chambers of
Town Hall.
      (2)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Committee shall be held
at a time and place designated by the Chairperson, any two Committee members,
or the Town Manager, providing at least 48 hours of notice is provided to all
members.
      (3)   Cancellation of meetings. When there is no business for the
Committee, monthly meetings may be canceled. Notice will be given to all
members of such cancellation.
      (4)   Quorum. A quorum consists of a majority of the Committee
membership. A quorum is four of seven members.
      (5)   Conduct of meetings. All meetings shall be open to the public. The
order of business at Committee meetings shall be as follows:
         (a)   Determination of a quorum;
         (b)   Approval of minutes of previous meeting;
         (c)   Old business;
         (d)   New business; and
         (e)   Adjournment.
      (6)   Change in by-laws. The by-laws may be amended by a majority of the
full Committee and overall approval by the Town Board.
      (7)   Public record. All records of the Parks and Recreation Advisory
Committee shall be made available to the public in accordance with General
Statutes.
   (I)   Conflict with other ordinances and resolutions. Any earlier adopted
ordinance and resolutions of the Town Board pertaining to parks and recreation
which are or may become in conflict with the provision of this section are
hereby declared to be null and void and of no effect.
   (J)   Subcommittees. Any time that the Board of Commissioners or Parks and
Recreation Committee deems there is a specific need for enhanced focus for a
major project or ongoing effort, a subcommittee may be formed. Such
subcommittee must be approved by a majority vote of the Town Board of
Commissioners. The number of members on said Board should be no less than five,
but may be as many as the Parks and Recreation Committee deems appropriate due
to amount of effort expected. Any subcommittee should have at least two members
of the Parks and Recreation Committee among its membership, but no more than
40% of the subcommittee shall also serve on the Parks and Recreation Committee
either voting or non-voting members (i.e., a subcommittee of five members
should have no more or less than two Board members while a subcommittee of nine
members must have at least two Board members, but no more than three members).
The formation of a subcommittee will have a document outlining the specific
duties, responsibilities and goals, as well as what goals/timelines need to be
met for the dissolution of the subcommittee.
   (K)   Centennial Celebration Subcommittee. In light of the town’s upcoming
centennial year celebration in 2015, a special centennial subcommittee shall be
appointed by the Town Board. This subcommittee shall serve at the pleasure of
the Town Board and be comprised of five citizens with interest and knowledge
pertaining to such celebration. The subcommittee shall provide advice and
recommendations on planning and implementing the celebration to the Parks and
Recreation Advisory Board and Town Board, and shall work and collaborate with
the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board and town staff to utilize their event
planning expertise and input on the celebration. Should the subcommittee
require any funds for performing its designated tasks, it shall make
expenditure requests directly to the Town Manager, to be approved by the Town
Board, if necessary.
CHAPTER 34: CIVIL EMERGENCY
Section
   
34.01   State of emergency
   
34.02   Declaration by Mayor
   
34.03   Publication of declaration
   
34.04   Evacuation
   
34.05   Effect of proclamation; curfew
   
34.06   Restrictions during emergency
   
34.07   Termination of state of emergency
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Emergency. An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe
damage, injury or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or man-
made accidental, military, paramilitary, weather-related or riot-related cause.
   (B)   State of emergency. Declaration by proclamation of the Mayor, or a
successor pursuant to the provisions found in §
34.02(A) of this chapter, subject to the definition of “emergency”.
§ 34.02 DECLARATION BY MAYOR.
   (A)   Mayor to issue declaration.
      (1)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the town
or any part thereof or threatening damages to or destruction of property, the
Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered under G.S. §§ 14-288.13 and 166A-8 to
issue a public declaration to declare to all persons the existence of such a
state of emergency within all or a portion of the town in accordance with §§
34.02 and
34.03 of this chapter.
      (2)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
declaration the application of all or any part of such restrictions to any area
specifically designated or described within the corporate limits of the town
and to specific hours of the day and night; and to exempt from all or any part
of such restrictions law officers, fire officers and other public employees,
doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical facilities; on-duty
military personnel, whether state or federal; on-duty employees of public
utilities, public transportation companies and newspaper, magazine, radio
broadcasting and television broadcasting corporations operated for profit; and
such other classes of persons as may be essential to the preservation of public
order and immediately necessary to serve the safety, health and welfare needs
to the people within the town.
      (3)   This declaration, and any prohibitions and restrictions made
effectively by it, shall take effect immediately upon publication unless the
declaration sets a later time.
      (4)   In the absence or disability of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tem shall
be authorized to declare a state of emergency, imposing any or all prohibitions
authorized in this policy. In the absence or disability of both the Mayor and
the Mayor Pro Tem, and a quorum of the Board of Commissioners is available, the
quorum shall meet and elect a Mayor to fill the unexpired term in accordance
with G.S. § 160A-63. If a quorum is unavailable, then succession shall proceed
in accordance with G.S. § 160A-63.
   (B)   Contents of declaration. The declaration issued by the Mayor shall
declare to all persons that a state of emergency exists and shall set forth the
following:
      (1)   The area within which the state of emergency exists, which may be
the entire own or a specifically described portion of it. If not specified, the
default emergency area shall be the entire jurisdiction of the town;
      (2)   The date and time from which the declaration shall be effective;
      (3)   Any restrictions and prohibitions that shall be effective during
the state of emergency and the penalties for violations; and
      (4)   The date and time when the state of emergency shall terminate,
unless extended or earlier terminated in accordance with §
34.05 of this chapter.
§ 34.03 PUBLICATION OF DECLARATION.
   The declaration shall be in writing. The Mayor shall take reasonable steps
to give notice of the terms of the declaration to those affected by it and
shall post a copy of it in the Town Hall. The Mayor shall send report of the
substance of the declaration to the mass communications media which serve the
affected area. The Mayor shall retain a text of the declaration and furnish
upon request certified copies of it.
§ 34.04 EVACUATION.
   The Mayor may direct and compel the voluntary or mandatory evacuation of all
or part of the population of the town; to prescribe routes, modes of
transportation and destination in connection with evacuation; and to control
ingress and egress of disaster area, the movement of persons within the area
and the occupancy of premises therein. Details of the evacuation may be set
forth or amended in a subsequent declaration which shall be well publicized.
§ 34.05 EFFECT OF PROCLAMATION; CURFEW.
   (A)   The declaration may impose a curfew prohibiting in certain areas and
during certain periods the appearance in public of anyone who is not a member
of an exempted class. The declaration shall specify the geographical area or
areas and the period each 24-hour day to which the curfew applies. The Mayor
may exempt from some or all of the curfew restrictions classes of people whose
exemption the Mayor finds necessary for the preservation of the public health,
safety and welfare. The declaration shall state the exempted classes and the
restrictions from which each are exempted.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified in the declaration, the curfew shall apply
during the specified period each day until the Mayor by declaration removes the
curfew.
§ 34.06 RESTRICTIONS DURING EMERGENCY.
   (A)   A proclamation of a state of emergency shall activate any local civil
preparedness plan and shall authorize the town to seek assistance from the
county, state and federal governments in accordance with the provisions of G.S.
Ch. 166A. During the existence of a declared state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by declaration any or all of the following restrictions:
      (1)   Limitations on the movement of people in public places;
      (2)   Limitations on the operation of offices, business establishments
and other places to or from which people may travel or at which they may
congregate;
      (3)   Limitation, restriction or prohibition of the possession,
transportation, sale, purchase and consumption of intoxicating liquors;
      (4)   Limitation, restriction or prohibition of the possession,
transportation, sale, purchase, storage and use of dangerous weapons,
substances and gasoline, with the exception of lawfully possessed firearms or
ammunition. As used in this chapter, “firearm” has the same meaning as it does
in G.S. § 14.409.32(2);
      (5)   Regulation of the sale or use of scarce supplies which are
essential for the public health or safety;
      (6)   Regulation of evacuation and the establishment of evacuation
shelters which may be reasonably necessary to maintain law and order and
protect lives and property; and
      (7)   Regulation of other activities or conditions, the control of which
may be reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property
during the state of emergency.
   (B)   If the county enacts a state of emergency, either the Board or the
Mayor may request application of some or all of the county’s emergency
restrictions to the town.
§ 34.07 TERMINATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   A state of emergency and any restrictions imposed in connection therewith
shall automatically terminate at the end of five days after it becomes
effective, except that the same may be continued for another five-day period by
the publication of a new declaration; or may be earlier terminated by the
Mayor, who may issue a declaration proclaiming the state of emergency to be
over at any time he or she concludes that to be the case.
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor under G.S. § 14-
4 and punishable by a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
CHAPTER 50: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
Section
   
50.01   Gastonia purchase of water and sewer systems
§ 50.01 GASTONIA PURCHASE OF WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   Pursuant to the interlocal agreement dated 5-10-2011, the City of Gastonia
purchased the water and sewer systems of the town, effective 6-30-2011. The
provisions of Ch. 14, “Utilities”, of the City of Gastonia Code of Ordinances,
as in effect on 7-1-2011, and as subsequently amended from time to time, shall
have full force and effect within the town and shall regulate the provision of
water and sewer service therein, in addition to all applicable provisions of
the 5-10-2011 interlocal agreement, and remaining town code sections pursuant
to that agreement.
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
   
51.01   Gastonia purchase of water and sewer systems
§ 51.01 GASTONIA PURCHASE OF WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS.
   Pursuant to the interlocal agreement dated 5-10-2011, the City of Gastonia
purchased the water and sewer systems of the town, effective 6-30-2011. The
provisions of Ch. 14, “Utilities”, of the City of Gastonia Code of Ordinances,
as in effect on 7-1-2011 and as subsequently amended from time to time shall
have full force and effect within the town and shall regulate the provision of
water and sewer service therein, in addition to all applicable provisions of
the 5-10-2011 interlocal agreement, and remaining town code sections pursuant
to that agreement.
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER EXTENSIONS
Section
   
52.01   Extensions for certain development projects
§ 52.01 EXTENSIONS FOR CERTAIN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS.
   (A)   Written contract for certain development projects. No water main or
sewer line may be installed and connected to the town water or sewer system
within town, except under written contract approved by the Town Board and
executed by the town and the applicant for the two development projects
identified in and subject to the provisions of § 5.2 and Exhibit H of the
interlocal agreement dated 5-10-2011 between the town and the City of Gastonia.
The town contract for these specific projects shall incorporate the substance
of the following provisions.
      (1)   Installation of any water main or sewer line including any required
fire hydrants, valves, manholes, sewer lift stations, force mains or collector
sewer lines necessary in connection therewith, shall be done by the applicant,
if the applicant under the laws of the state is permitted to make the
installations, or by a contractor of the applicant licensed by the state to
make the installations. The installations shall be done in accordance with
engineering plans, profiles and specifications approved by the Town Manager, a
copy of the same shall be endorsed as to the approval for the applicant’s use.
The applicant shall be responsible, at his or her own expense, for the
preparation of any required plans, profiles and specifications, for obtaining
approval for sewer line extensions from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources and Community Development, and for any other engineering fees in
connection with the installation of the utilities.
      (2)   The installation of the utilities shall be subject to the
inspection and supervision of the town during construction, and the connection
thereof to the town water or sewer system shall not be made or maintained until
the same shall have been tested under supervision of and the written approval
and acceptance of the installation given by the Town Manager. After the
approval and acceptance, the town shall thereafter repair and maintain the
same, except the applicant shall be responsible for defects in workmanship or
materials or any non-compliance with the plans and specifications that appear
within one year after the acceptance.
      (3)   Installation of the utilities shall be done and completed at the
sole expense and responsibility of the applicant, free and clear of all claims
or encumbrances, within 12 months from the date of the contract; otherwise, the
terms of the contract shall be null and void after the expiration of the 12-
month period. In addition, the applicant shall be solely responsible that the
utilities are installed within this period in accordance with the plans,
profiles and specifications approved by the town.
      (4)   The applicant shall, at his or her expense (including attorney fees
and recording expenses) obtain for or provide to the town the perpetual rights-
of-way or deeds as shall be specified by the town for the construction,
maintenance and operation of the utilities, including any encroachment
agreements that might be required from the state’s Department of Transportation
or a railroad or other public utility.
      (5)   Upon completion of the utilities and the connection thereof to the
town water and sewer system, the water main or sewer line and any fire
hydrants, valves, manholes, sewer lift stations, force mains or collector sewer
lines required in connection therewith, shall thereupon and thereafter be the
entire and sole property of the town and under the sole and exclusive control
of the town.
      (6)   Neither the applicants, nor any other person, shall be entitled to
any service laterals from any water main or sewer line installed by the
applicant, except upon permission of the town and the payment of any water
meter or any other water or sewer service connection charges therefor as
required by the ordinances or regulations of the town.
      (7)   If a water main, sewer line, sewer force main or collector line
shall be required by the town in excess of eight inches in size to provide for
the expansion of water or sewer service to other properties, then the town will
agree to reimburse the applicant the difference in the cost of the pipe for any
water main, sewer line, sewer force main or collector line in excess of eight
inches in size. The difference in cost is to be determined by the Town Manager
and stated in the contract. However, the town will not agree to refund any
difference if any water main or sewer line in excess of eight inches is
necessary to serve the property intended to be then served thereby. In
addition, if in order to provide for the expansion of sewer service to other
properties a sewer pump station larger in size or capacity than necessary to
serve the properties intended to be then serviced by the sewer installations
shall be required by the town then the town will agree to reimburse the
applicant the difference in the cost of a sewer pump station that otherwise
would be adequate to serve the properties intended to be then serviced and of
the sewer pump stations required by the town to be installed, the difference in
cost to be determined by the Town Manager and stated in the contract. Any cost
differences which the town agrees to refund shall be due and payable without
interest to the applicant in August following the first May 1 after the date on
which the utilities to be installed under the contract have been completed and
accepted and approved by the town.
      (8)   The applicant shall agree to indemnify and save harmless the town
from any and all loss, cost, damages, expense and liability (including
attorney’s fees) caused by accident or occurrence causing bodily injury or
property damage arising from the installation of the utilities by the applicant
or the contractor of the applicant. The applicant shall maintain workers
compensation coverage as well as general liability insurance with a contractual
coverage endorsement and automobile liability insurance with policy limits of
not less than $500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and $100,000 for
property damage. The applicant will furnish certificates of the insurance to
the town with the provision that the town will be given 30 days’ written notice
of any intent to terminate the insurance by either the applicant or the
insurance company.
      (9)   The contract shall be conditioned on the applicant complying with
all zoning and subdivision ordinances and regulations of the town that are
applicable to any properties to be serviced by the utilities, and also any
ordinances or regulations of the town for the operation, control, maintenance
and protection of the water and sewer systems of the town.
      (10)   In the event the applicant violates any of the terms of the
contract, the town shall have the right to declare all or any of the rights of
the applicant under the contract forfeited, and to remove and disconnect any
connections that might have been made to the town’s water or sewer system.
      (11)   For town home, condominium or other similar multiple-unit
developments, the town may, in its discretion, allow master water meters for
such developments; provided that:
         (a)   A properly constituted homeowners association with valid and
enforceable assessment or other funding powers exists or is created by the
developer;
         (b)   The homeowners association will bill homeowners monthly for
water and sewer charges and payment to the town of all such charges will be the
homeowners association’s responsibility;
         (c)   The homeowners association will, as an exception to division (C)
(5) above, retain private ownership of and will have sole maintenance
responsibility for the water lines from the master water meter to the living
units; and
         (d)   Original and subsequent purchasers of living units will be
notified by the developer or subsequent owner prior to purchase that the
homeowners association will be responsible for maintenance and billing, and can
assess owners for such costs, such notice to be in the deed or other recorded
notice in the chain of title.
      (12)   For the agreement designated development projects, the town may,
in its discretion, reduce or waive altogether the water and sewer access fees
and negotiate other applicable fees, in effect in the code of ordinances and
fee schedules based upon the estimated costs and other installation and
maintenance requirements in extending water and sewer to the development and
may, in addition to assessment at issuance of the zoning permit, assess such
access fees, if any, to the developer at other scheduled milestones of the
project.
   (B)   Town Board approval. Without limiting the right of the Town Board to
disapprove for any reason whatsoever the execution of any written contract
between an applicant and the town prepared in accordance with this chapter, the
Board may not approve any contract for the installation of any water main or
sewer line to be connected to and served by the water or sewer system if, in
its judgment, the utility service would be in adequate to town residents or the
proposed financial fees would be inadequate and detrimental to the interests of
the town.
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   TRAINS
      
74.   BICYCLES; TOY VEHICLES
      
75.   RESERVED
      
76.   PARKING SCHEDULES
      
77.   GOLF CARTS
      
78.   UTILITY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions and appointment of Administrator
   
70.02   Adoption of temporary regulations
   
70.03   Alteration and removal of traffic ticket
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.15   Traffic-control devices to be uniform
   
70.16   Display of unauthorized traffic-control signals
   
70.17   Traffic signals; no turn on red
   
70.18   Flashing signals
   
70.19   Pedestrian-control signals
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS AND APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this traffic code, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle.
      HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between property or right-of-way
lines of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open
to the use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular
traffic. The terms HIGHWAY or STREET, or a combination of the two terms, shall
be used synonymously.
      INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curb lines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of two or more
highways which join one another at any angle whether or not one highway crosses
the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of the divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate INTERSECTION. In the event that such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
INTERSECTION.
      LOCAL STREET. A street within the town that is not part of the state
highway system.
      LONG-TERM PARKING. Overnight parking lasting two or more nights.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle that is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways that is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include mopeds, as defined in G.S. § 20-4.01(27)j.
      OPERATOR. A person in actual physical control of a vehicle that is in
motion or that has the engine running.
      PARKING or STANDING. A vehicle is parked or is permitted to stand when it
is stopped and allowed to remain in a fixed location for any duration of time,
whether attended or unattended. Except where the context clearly indicates
otherwise, the limitations on PARKING and STANDING in this traffic code apply
only to locations within a street right-of-way. In no case do these limitations
apply when a vehicle is stopped to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic-control
device or as the result of an emergency or because the vehicle is disabled.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall
refer to any roadway separately, but not to all roadways collectively.
      SAFETY ZONE. A traffic island or other space that is officially set aside
within a highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and that is so plainly
marked or indicated by the proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times
while set apart as a SAFETY ZONE.
      STATE HIGHWAY SYSTEM STREET. A street within the town that is part of the
state highway system. Whenever this traffic code regulates parking or the
movement of traffic on, to or from a state highway system street, then, to the
extent that concurrence by the state’s Department of Transportation is
necessary (by passage of a concurring ordinance or otherwise), the regulation
shall not become effective until the concurrence is obtained.
      STREET. See the definition for HIGHWAY found in this section.
      TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or other device placed
or erected pursuant to a lawfully adopted ordinance and designed to regulate,
warn, guide or control traffic.
      TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device designed to regulate, guide or control
traffic through the use of alternating or flashing lights or by some other
mechanical means.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided that, for the purposes
of this title, bicycles shall be deemed VEHICLES and every rider of a bicycle
upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this title applicable to
the driver of a vehicle, except those which, by their nature, can have no
application. This term shall not include a device which is designed for and
intended to be used as a means of transportation for a person with a mobility
impairment, is suitable for use both inside and outside a building and whose
maximum speed does not exceed 12 mph when the device is being operated by a
person with a mobility impairment.
   (B)   Appointment of Administrator. The Town Manager shall appoint an
Administrator who shall be responsible for carrying out the provisions of this
traffic code.
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF TEMPORARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make regulations necessary
to make effective the provisions of the traffic ordinances of the town and to
make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies or
special conditions. No temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in
effect for more than 90 days.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or the Administrator may test traffic-control
devices under actual conditions of traffic.
   (C)   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to designate and mark off with
appropriate signs any town-maintained street, or a portion of the street, for
temporary municipal recreational use.
§ 70.03 ALTERATION AND REMOVAL OF TRAFFIC TICKET.
   (A)   No person may alter a traffic ticket, and no person may have in his or
her possession any unlawfully altered ticket.
   (B)   No person may remove a traffic ticket from a vehicle or permit it to
be removed, except for the purpose of answering the charge for which it was
issued.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES TO BE UNIFORM.
   All traffic-control signs, signals, markings, islands and other traffic-
control devices installed pursuant to this chapter shall be in substantial
conformance with the specifications set forth in the manual on Uniform Traffic-
Control Devices for Streets and Highways, published by the United States
Department of Transportation, Federal Highway Administration.
§ 70.16 DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway an unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be or
is an imitation of, or resembles in operation or in physical appearance, an
official traffic-control device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts
to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with
the effectiveness of any official traffic-control device or any railroad sign
or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain, nor shall any public authority
permit, upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways or signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (D)   Every prohibited sign, signal or marking is declared to be a public
nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is empowered to
remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
§ 70.17 TRAFFIC SIGNALS; NO TURN ON RED.
   (A)   The Administrator shall erect or install mechanical stop lights to
regulate vehicular and pedestrian traffic at the intersections and locations
set forth by the town from time to time. The effect of the stop lights on
vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
   (B)   The Administrator shall erect signs notifying motorists that no right
turn on red is permitted at the locations designated by the town from time to
time. When the signs are erected, no person may make a right turn against a red
light contrary to the signs.
§ 70.18 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   The Administrator shall erect or install mechanical red and yellow flashing
lights at the locations specified by the town from time to time. The effect of
the flashing red and yellow lights on vehicles and pedestrians shall be as
provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
§ 70.19 PEDESTRIAN-CONTROL SIGNALS.
   The Administrator shall erect pedestrian-crossing signals in accordance with
G.S. § 20-172 at the intersections and locations indicated by the town from
time to time. The effect of the signals shall be as provided in G.S. § 20-172.
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the
remedies contained in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, except as provided below.
   (B)   Violations of any parking provisions in Ch.
72 and
76 of this code of ordinances shall be enforced byissuance of an infraction
citation requiring payment of a penalty not to exceed $50.
   (C)   Violations of any vehicle operation provisions of Ch.
71,
72 and
75 of this code of ordinances shall be an infraction subject to a penalty not
to exceed $50.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
71.01   Speed limits
   
71.02   Stop signs
   
71.03   One-way streets
   
71.04   Yield right-of-way
   
71.05   Turning restricted
   
71.06   Unlawful passing
   
71.07   Traffic lanes
   
71.08   No thru truck traffic permitted on town-maintained streets
   
71.09   Riding on vehicles not intended for passengers
   
71.10   Following emergency vehicles
   
71.11   Limitations on backing
   
71.12   Avoidance of traffic-control devices
   
71.13   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
71.14   Funeral processions
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   General. As provided in G.S. § 20-141(b)(l), no person may drive a
vehicle upon a street or in a public vehicular area in excess of 35 mph unless
a different speed is posted.
   (B)   Specific streets.
      (1)   Whenever a speed limit has been established for any street by the
Administrator, the town shall install an appropriate traffic control device
that clearly indicates the established speed limit. No person may operate a
vehicle on any street in excess of the posted speed limit.
      (2)   Traffic-control devices installed at each entrance to a
neighborhood that clearly indicate the established speed limit throughout said
neighborhood shall be applicable to all streets within said neighborhood
without further notification.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
§ 71.02 STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   The second named street in the list of intersections set forth by the
town from time to time is designated as a main traveled or through street, and
the Administrator shall erect stop signs on the first named street at the
entrance to the main traveled or through street. The effect of the stop signs
on vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
   (B)   The intersections of the streets set forth by the town from time to
time are declared to be four-way stop intersections, and the Administrator
shall erect stop signs on each street at the entrance to the intersection. The
effect of the stop signs on vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided in
G.S. §§ 20-158 and 20-172.
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   Whenever a street is designated a one-way street by the Administrator, the
town shall install an appropriate traffic control device and no person may
drive a vehicle on the street, except in the direction indicated by the
traffic-control devices.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
§ 71.04 YIELD RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The second named street in the list of intersections, as set forth by the
town from time to time, is designated as a main traveled or through street, and
the Administrator shall erect yield right-of-way signs on the first named
street at the entrance to the main traveled or through street. The effect of
the yield right-of-way signs on vehicles and pedestrians shall be as provided
in G.S. §§ 20-158.1 and 20-172.
§ 71.05 TURNING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No person may make a U-turn upon any street, except at the terminus of
a dead-end street.
   (B)   Whenever, pursuant to division (C) below, appropriate traffic-control
devices are installed that clearly indicate that right or left turns or all
turns are prohibited or required from a particular lane of traffic, no person
may drive any vehicle contrary to the directions of any traffic-control device
so installed.
   (C)   The following restrictions on turning (set forth by the town from time
to time) shall henceforth be in effect at the indicated locations and the
Administrator shall install appropriate traffic-control devices that clearly
and adequately notify drivers of the turns required or prohibited:
      (1)   Turns prohibited at intersections: as set forth by the town from
time to time;
      (2)   Left turns prohibited: as set forth by the town from time to time;
and
      (3)   Right turns prohibited: as set forth by the town from time to time.
§ 71.06 UNLAWFUL PASSING.
   (A)   Whether, pursuant to division (B) below, appropriate traffic-control
devices have been installed that clearly indicate that no passing is allowed on
a portion of any street, no driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another
on any portion of any street so restricted. (Note: G.S. § 20-150(e) makes it
unlawful to pass contrary to the signs posted by the state’s Department of
Transportation.)
   (B)   The Administrator may install appropriate traffic-control devices to
indicate that no passing is allowed whenever and wherever he or she determines
that passing would be unsafe on that portion of a street because of the
following:
      (1)   The street intersects with another street;
      (2)   The slope or grade of the street is such or the street curves to an
extent that a driver’s view is obstructed within a distance of 500 feet; and/or
      (3)   Any other conditions exist making passing hazardous.
§ 71.07 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The Administrator is hereby authorized to make traffic lanes upon the
roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is
necessary.
   (B)   Where the traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the
operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the
boundaries of the lane, except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
   (C)   Except when entering or leaving a parking space, no person may drive a
vehicle on any section of a street marked for parking pursuant to §
72.19 of this code of ordinances.
§ 71.08 NO THRU TRUCK TRAFFIC PERMITTED ON TOWN-MAINTAINED STREETS.
   (A)   No motor vehicle with more than three axles and exceeding 21 feet in
length shall be permitted to travel on any town-maintained street, except
solely for the purpose of discharging and/or collecting passengers or loading
and/or unloading goods, merchandise or materials at points or addresses on a
town-maintained street.
   (B)   The following motor vehicles shall be excluded from the foregoing
restriction:
      (1)   Vehicle drawn trailers, when the vehicle drawing the trailer is not
designated primarily for drawing a trailer;
      (2)   School buses;
      (3)   Charter buses; and
      (4)   Non-scheduled buses.
§ 71.09 RIDING ON VEHICLES NOT INTENDED FOR PASSENGERS.
   (A)   No person may ride on any vehicle or upon any portion thereof not
designed or intended for the use of passengers, nor shall the driver of the
vehicle permit a person to so ride.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of a duty, or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended
for merchandise.
§ 71.10 FOLLOWING EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   No driver of any vehicle, other than one on official business relating to
the emergency, may follow any authorized emergency vehicle traveling in
response to an emergency call or alarm closer than 500 feet, nor drive into or
park the vehicle within one block of where a fire apparatus has stopped in
answer to a fire alarm.
§ 71.11 LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   No person may back a vehicle unless the movement can be made with reasonable
safety and without interfering with other traffic, and in no event may the
person back a vehicle a distance greater than 150 feet.
§ 71.12 AVOIDANCE OF TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   No person may drive across a sidewalk or through the driveway or parking
area of any property for the purpose of avoiding an official traffic-control
device.
§ 71.13 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   (A)   The Administrator is hereby authorized to do the following:
      (1)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines
upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in his or
her opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway,
and at other places as he or she may deem necessary; and
      (2)   To establish safety zones of the kind and character and at places
as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
   (B)   The effect of the crosswalks upon vehicles and pedestrians shall be as
provided in G.S. §§ 20-173 and 20-174 and other provisions of law.
   (C)   As provided in G.S. § 20-160(a), no driver of a vehicle may drive
through or over a safety zone.
§ 71.14 FUNERAL PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   A funeral procession shall be identified in a manner determined by the
Administrator to be adequate to give notice to the other drivers of the
existence of the procession.
   (B)   Each driver in a funeral procession shall drive as near to the right-
hand edge of the road as practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as
closely as possible consistent with obedience to traffic- control signals and
safe driving practices.
   (C)   Unless otherwise directed by a police officer, no person may drive a
vehicle other than an emergency vehicle between the vehicles constituting a
funeral procession when the vehicles are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as provided in division (A) above.
   (D)   A funeral led by a law enforcement vehicle shall have the right-of-way
as to all other traffic, other than emergency vehicles, along the route of the
funeral procession to the designated place of burial.
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Towing parked vehicles
Regulations
   
72.15   Parking prohibited in certain locations
   
72.16   Manner of parking
   
72.17   Parking prohibited at certain times
   
72.18   Parking for certain purposes prohibited
   
72.19   Parking close to curb; marked spaces
   
72.20   Angle parking
   
72.21   Parking large vehicles
   
72.22   Lights on parked vehicles
   
72.23   Parking of bicycles
Off-Street Parking
   
72.35   Parking lots for limited use
   
72.36   Parking lots for public use
Loading and Unloading Zones
   
72.50   Zones designated; compliance
   
72.51   Passenger loading zones
   
72.52   Commercial loading zones
   
72.53   Bus stop zones
   
72.54   Mail drop zones
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 TOWING PARKED VEHICLES.
   Without limiting the authority conferred in
Ch. 92 of this code of ordinances to remove vehicles, the Board declares that
vehicles parked in violation of the sections enumerated herein should be towed
at the discretion of the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
REGULATIONS
§ 72.15 PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   (A)   No person may park any vehicle or permit it to stand in any of the
following locations:
      (1)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162, in front of a private driveway;
      (2)   As provided in G.S. § 20-162, within 15 feet of either direction of
a fire hydrant (whether or not located in a public right-of-way) or the
entrance to a fire station;
      (3)   Within 50 feet of the intersection of curb lines or, if none, then
within 50 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection of
highways; except that, this division (A)(3) shall not apply to buses stopping
in properly designated locations;
      (4)   Within an intersection or on a marked crosswalk;
      (5)   Within 20 feet of any traffic-control signal or device located at
the side of a street;
      (6)   On a sidewalk or on the planting strip or utility strip not used
for sidewalk purposes which is situated between the edge of the street pavement
and the street right-of-way boundary;
      (7)   In any portion of a roadway intended to carry traffic at the time
the vehicle is parked or left standing;
      (8)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped, standing or parked at
the edge of a curb or street;
      (9)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
parking or standing would obstruct traffic;
      (10)   Upon any bridge, overpass or other elevated structure or within
any tunnel or other underpass structure;
      (11)   On either side of any street at the approaches to a bridge, an
underpass or an overhead bridge within 50 feet in either direction of the outer
edge of the structure;
      (12)   On either side of any street leading to a grade crossing within 50
feet of the closest rail; provided, where existing permanent structures are
located closer than 50 feet parking may be permitted in front of the structures
unless otherwise prohibited, and if the parking does not block the view in
either direction of the approach of a locomotive or train;
      (13)   In any alley or private road in a manner or under conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free
movement of vehicular travel or to block the driveway entrance to any abutting
property;
      (14)   In any parking space clearly marked as reserved for the
handicapped, whether on public or private property, unless the driver of or a
passenger in the vehicle is handicapped. See G.S. § 20-37.6;
      (15)   In front of any motion picture theater, except for bicycles where
racks are provided; and/or
      (16)   On the median strip of any street.
   (B)   The Administrator may install no-parking signs, yellow curb markings
or other traffic-control devices to indicate where parking and standing is
prohibited as stated in division (A) above, but enforcement of the provisions
of this section is not dependent on the installation of the devices. No person
shall deface, injure, tamper with or willfully break, destroy or impair any
sign erected pursuant to this chapter.
§ 72.16 MANNER OF PARKING.
   (A)   No person owning or having control or charge of any vehicle may park
or allow the vehicle to stand upon any street or public parking lot unattended
without first effectively setting the brakes, stopping the engine, locking the
ignition and removing the ignition key of the vehicle and when standing upon
any grade of a street, without turning the front wheels of the vehicle to the
curb or side of the street. Whenever any law enforcement officer shall find a
vehicle standing unattended with the ignition key in the vehicle in violation
of this section, the law enforcement officer shall remove the key from the
vehicle and deliver the same to the police station of the town.
   (B)   No person may park or leave standing any vehicle that exceeds 19 feet
in length in any location where head-in or right-angle parking is required.
§ 72.17 PARKING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   (A)   Whenever, pursuant to division (B) below, the Administrator has
installed signs, yellow pavement markings or other traffic-control devices
clearly indicating that parking or standing within a specified area is
prohibited, or is allowed only at certain times or for a certain duration, no
person may park any vehicle or permit it to stand contrary to the directions of
those traffic-control devices.
   (B)   The Administrator shall install no-parking signs, yellow curb markings
or traffic-control devices to indicate that parking and standing is prohibited
under the circumstances and at the locations posted at his or her reasonable
discretion.
   (C)   A change of position of vehicle from one point directly to another
point within the same block or parking lot shall be deemed one continuous
parking period. The parking period shall be as designated on traffic signs
erected within the same block or parking lot regulating the parking time limit.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
§ 72.18 PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED.
   No person may park any vehicle or permit it to stand upon any street for any
of the following principal purposes:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale or hire, except foreclosure and judicial sales;
   (B)   Washing, greasing, changing tires or repairing the vehicle, except to
the extent necessitated by an emergency;
   (C)   Storing it;
   (D)   Advertising;
   (E)   Transferring merchandise or freight from one vehicle to another; and/
or
   (F)   Presenting shows, exhibitions or entertainment of any kind where an
admission fee is charged or donations solicited or accepted.
§ 72.19 PARKING CLOSE TO CURB; MARKED SPACES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person may park a
vehicle or permit it to stand in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of
the roadway, heading in the direction of lawful traffic movement, and with the
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or the edge of the roadway.
   (B)   The Administrator may mark any street where parking is permitted with
lines that indicate the parking space for vehicles, and no person may park any
vehicle outside the lines.
§ 72.20 ANGLE PARKING.
   On those streets that have been signed or marked by the Administrator for
angle parking, no person may park or permit a vehicle to stand within an area
so marked unless the vehicle is located entirely within a single marked space.
§ 72.21 PARKING LARGE VEHICLES.
   No person may park any vehicle exceeding seven feet in width on any street,
except while actively engaged in loading and unloading.
§ 72.22 LIGHTS ON PARKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   The lighting required by G.S. § 20-134 on parked vehicles need not be
displayed upon any vehicle when parked in accordance with this chapter upon a
street where there is sufficient light to reveal any person within a distance
of 200 feet upon the street.
   (B)   Any lighted headlamps upon a parked vehicle shall be depressed or
dimmed.
§ 72.23 PARKING OF BICYCLES.
   No person may park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
OFF-STREET PARKING
§ 72.35 PARKING LOTS FOR LIMITED USE.
   No person shall park a vehicle in any parking lot owned or operated by the
town where parking is limited to designated persons or governmental
departments, except in the parking space assigned to him or her by the town and
then only within the bounds of the specifically assigned parking space.
§ 72.36 PARKING LOTS FOR PUBLIC USE.
   No person may park a vehicle in any parking lot owned or operated by the
town as a public parking lot at any place, except within the bounds of a
designated parking space and in any manner other than that which will comply
with the parking regulations applicable to the lot.
LOADING AND UNLOADING ZONES
§ 72.50 ZONES DESIGNATED; COMPLIANCE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, whenever streets or
portions of streets are designated as loading and unloading zones in accordance
with the provisions of this subchapter, parking and standing are permitted in
those locations, but only in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
§ 72.51 PASSENGER LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever a passenger loading zone is designated and clearly marked in
accordance with division (B) below, no person may park any vehicle or permit it
to stand in the zone for any purpose other than the expeditious loading or
unloading of passengers, and then only for a period not to exceed three
minutes.
   (B)   The locations specified by the town from time to time are declared to
be passenger loading zones during the time periods included therein and the
Administrator shall install appropriate traffic- control devices to give clear
notice of the limitations set forth in this section.
§ 72.52 COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever a commercial loading zone is designated and marked by
traffic-control devices in accordance with division (B) below, no person may
park any vehicle there or permit it to stand in the zone for any purpose other
than the expeditious loading or pickup of materials and goods, or unloading and
delivery, and then only for a period not to exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   The locations specified as set forth by the town from time to time are
declared to be commercial loading zones, and the Administrator shall install
appropriate traffic-control devices to give clear notice of the limitations set
forth in division (A) above.
§ 72.53 BUS STOP ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever a bus stop is designated and marked by traffic-control
devices in accordance with division (B) below, no person may park any vehicle
other than a bus in any zone so designated and marked.
   (B)   The locations specified by the town from time to time are declared to
be bus stop zones, and the Administrator shall install appropriate traffic-
control devices to give clear notice that parking or standing within the zones,
except for buses is prohibited.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park the vehicle upon any
street at any place other than a bus stop so designated as provided herein.
   (D)   The operator of a bus shall not stop the vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop or passenger loading zone so designated as provided
herein, except in case of emergency.
   (E)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop or passenger loading zone
on a public street in a manner that the bus when stopped to load or unload
passengers or baggage shall be in a position with the right front wheel of the
vehicle not further than 12 inches from the curb and the bus approximately
parallel to the curb so as not to impede unduly the movement of other vehicular
traffic.
§ 72.54 MAIL DROP ZONES.
   (A)   Whenever a mail drop zone is designated and marked by traffic-control
devices in accordance with division (B) below, no person may park any vehicle
or permit it to stand within the zone for any purpose other than depositing
mail into a mail drop box and then only for a period not to exceed 30 seconds.
   (B)   The locations specified by the town from time to time are declared to
be mail drop zones and the Administrator shall install appropriate traffic-
control devices to give clear notice of the limitations set forth in division
(A) above.
CHAPTER 73: TRAINS
Section
   
73.01   Traffic-control signals required at railroad crossings
   
73.02   Trains blocking crossings
   
73.03   Obedience to signal indicating approach of train
§ 73.01 TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS REQUIRED AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   The railway company owning or operating the tracks shall be responsible for
installing and maintaining appropriate traffic-control devices to regulate
motor vehicle traffic at the railroad crossings.
§ 73.02 TRAINS BLOCKING CROSSINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any railroad corporation, or any of its conductors,
engineers or other employees, to allow any of its engines, trains or cars to
remain on or over any of the public street crossings within the town for a
longer time than five minutes, without clearing the crossing so that all
persons desiring to cross the tracks of the railroad may have ample opportunity
to do so.
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
the vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet, from the
nearest rail of the railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when any of the following occur:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives a
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagger gives a signal of the
approach or passage of a railroad train; and/or
      (3)   An approaching train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to the crossing.
   (B)   No person may drive any vehicle through, around or under any railroad
crossing gate or barrier that is closed or is being opened or closed.
CHAPTER 74: BICYCLES; TOY VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
74.01   Toy vehicles, skateboards and the like
Bicycles
   
74.15   Riding on bicycles
   
74.16   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
74.17   Riding on sidewalks
   
74.18   Required equipment on bicycles
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 74.01 TOY VEHICLES, SKATEBOARDS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any
skateboard, coaster, sled, tricycle, velocipede, toy vehicle or similar device
shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a street or crosswalk and when
so crossing the person shall be granted all rights and shall be subject to all
the duties applicable to pedestrians, or while the street or crosswalk has been
designated and marked off with appropriate signs for temporary municipal
recreational use.
   (B)   No person upon roller skates or riding in or by means of any
skateboard, coaster, sled, tricycle, velocipede, toy vehicles or similar device
shall go upon any sidewalk adjacent to the streets designated by the town from
time to time.
   (C)   No person upon roller skates or riding a bicycle, coaster, toy vehicle
or similar device may attach himself, herself or the vehicle or device to any
moving motor vehicle.
BICYCLES
§ 74.15 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
§ 74.16 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use
of bicycles.
   (C)   Wherever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
§ 74.17 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on the sidewalks on Center Street on either
side thereof between Eighth Avenue and Ninth Street or upon Eighth Avenue
between North Main Street and Ninth Street.
§ 74.18 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   Every bicycle used at night shall be equipped with the lighting
required by G.S. § 20-129(e).
   (B)   No person may operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least 100
feet; except that, a bicycle shall not be equipped with, nor may any person use
upon a bicycle, a siren or whistle.
   (C)   No person may operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a brake
which will enable the operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level,
clean pavement.
   (D)   Bicycle helmets are required as per applicable state law.
CHAPTER 75: RESERVED
CHAPTER 76: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking zones
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
Street Area Description
Street                     Area         Description
Baltimore Street           Baltimore    Cramer Mountain Road to its end
Dawson Street              Central Area
Eighteenth Street          New Town
                                        Market Street to Mayflower Street.
Eighth Avenue              Central Area Long-term parking prohibited in Town
                                        Hall public parking area
Fifteenth Street           New Town     Parking allowed left side to curb only
Fifth Street               Riverside
First Street               Riverside
Fourteenth Street          New Town     Parking allowed left side to curb only
Fourth Street              Riverside
                                        No parking allowed behind the buildings
                                        located at 109, 111, 113, 115, 117,
Front Street               Central      119A and 119B Center Street. Parking
                                        prohibited on both sides of street.
                                        Long-term parking prohibited in
                                        downtown public parking area
Hickory Street             Central
Lakewood Road              Lakewood     Wilkinson Boulevard to South Fork River
                                        Bridge
Lincoln Street             Central
Main Street                Central      Long-term parking prohibited in public
                                        parking area
Mayflower Street           New Town     Parking on west side of street only
                                        Long-term parking prohibited in public
Ninth Street               Central      parking area, including parking lot
                                        owned by the town
North Main Street          Central      Long-term parking prohibited in public
                                        parking area
Patterson Street           Baltimore
Patterson Street Extension Baltimore
Riverside Drive            Riverside
Second Street              Riverside
Seventeenth Street         New Town     Parking allowed left side to curb only
Seventh Street             Riverside
Seventh Street Extension   Riverside
Sixteenth Street           New Town     Parking allowed left side to curb only
Sixth Street               Riverside
South Main Extension       Riverside
Third Street               Riverside
Thirteenth Street          New Town
Willow Street              Central Area
Woodlawn Avenue            New Town     No parking between 8:00 p.m. to 8:00
                                        a.m.
 
CHAPTER 77: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
77.01   Policy statement
   
77.02   Rules and regulations
§ 77.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   This chapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf carts,
hereinafter “cart(s)”, are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
streets and roads, hereinafter “street(s)”, and the town in no way advocates or
endorses their operation on streets. The town by regulating such operation is
merely addressing safety issues. This chapter is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in
accordance with this chapter. All persons operating carts must be observant of,
and attentive to the safety of themselves and others, including their
passengers, other motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. All persons that
operate or ride carts on streets inside the town do so at their own risks. The
town shall have no liability under any theory of liability, for permitting
carts to be operated on streets under legislative authority granted by the
state, and pursuant to such legislative authority, such cart operation shall be
in accordance with this chapter.
§ 77.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Carts shall only be operated on streets within the municipal limits of
the town in accordance with the following rules and regulations.
      (1)   Any person who operates a cart in the town assumes all liability
associated with operating the cart.
      (2)   Any person who operates a cart must be at least 16 years of age and
possess a valid driver’s license required by the state for operation of a motor
vehicle. Cart operators must carry their driver’s licenses on their persons at
all times while operating a cart on the streets in the corporate limits.
      (3)   Carts shall be driven on streets only from dawn to dusk, unless the
cart is equipped with two lighted lamps, one on each side of the front of the
cart, visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least
300 feet to the front of such cart, and a red lamp on the rear, exhibiting a
red light visible under like conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet to
the rear of such cart. In lieu of the red lamp, the cart may alternatively be
equipped at the rear with two red reflectors of a diameter of not less than
three inches, which are designed, located and maintained so that each reflector
is visible for at least 500 feet when approached by a motor vehicle displaying
lawful undimmed headlights.
      (4)   Carts shall only be driven on streets in the town with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less.
      (5)   Carts shall not be operated on or alongside any portion of
Wilkinson Boulevard/Highway 29-74 unless crossing at a controlled intersection
with a street that has a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less.
      (6)   Any person who operates a cart on the streets in the town shall
adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs and all applicable state traffic laws.
      (7)   No cart shall be operated in a careless or reckless manner.
      (8)   Carts shall be operated to the right side of the travel lane unless
making a left turn.
      (9)   The maximum occupancy of a cart traveling on streets shall be one
person per bucket seat or two people per bench seat. Child/infant restraints
are required to be used in the cart in the same manner as required for
passenger vehicles.
      (10)   Carts shall not be operated on any sidewalk in the town, unless at
locations approved and designated by proper signage installed by the town.
      (11)   Carts shall only operate on greenway or pedestrian trails that
have been approved and designated by proper signage installed by the town.
      (12)   Carts shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties outside the street right-of-way without the permission of the
property owner.
      (13)   Carts shall only park in handicapped parking spaces if the driver
or at least one passenger has a valid handicap-parking placard and such placard
is properly displayed in the cart.
      (14)   No cart shall be operated at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent for the existing conditions and in no instance at a speed greater
than 20 mph.
      (15)   All cart owners of carts that operate on the streets within the
town shall complete and submit a cart registration form. The completed forms
will be maintained by the town’s Police Department. All carts operated on the
streets must have a valid permit/sticker issued by the Police Department. A
yearly registration fee will be charged for this permit/sticker to cover the
costs of implementing and maintaining this chapter. The fee amount will be
determined by the fee schedule adopted each year by the town. The Chief of
Police retains the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke any permit/sticker
from any cart at any time for any reason that he or she feels is appropriate to
ensure the safety and well-being of the citizens of the town or the motoring
public.
      (16)   Each owner shall have proof of cart ownership, and must complete a
waiver of liability, releasing the town, its employees and officials from all
liability that may arise as a result of operating a cart on streets inside the
town. A current waiver of liability must be on file with the town’s Police
Department to operate on streets.
      (17)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the
owner. A police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/
sticker. The Chief of Police shall have discretion in determining whether a
permit/sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of
a previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit/sticker is issued.
      (18)   Any person who operates a cart on the streets shall have liability
insurance coverage in an amount sufficient to cover the risk involved in using
the cart on the streets. Proof of such insurance shall be in the possession of
the operator of the cart while operating the cart and a copy shall be provided
to the Police Department at the time of permitting.
   (B)   The above requirements do not apply to carts crossing the street at
golf course crossings designated by signs duly erected by the town or the
state’s Department of Transportation for such crossing and the cart is being
used for golf purposes.
   (C)   Any act constituting a violation of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty or
other listed remedies in accordance with the town code, plus any attorney fees
incurred by the town. Offenders are also subject to charges on state uniform
citations and arrest. If the offenders fail to pay any civil penalty within ten
days of its issuance or, if there are repeat ordinance violations, the
privileges and permit granted by this chapter may be revoked by the town’s
Police Department.
   (D)   Carts used/owned by the town and operated for special events or
official business shall be exempt from permit fees, but shall otherwise comply
with the above requirements.
CHAPTER 78: UTILITY VEHICLES
Section
   
78.01   Policy statement
   
78.02   Rules and regulations
§ 78.01 POLICY STATEMENT.
   This chapter is adopted in the interest of public safety. Utility vehicles,
hereinafter “UTVs”, are not designed or manufactured to be used on public
streets and roads, hereinafter “street(s)”, and the town in no way advocates or
endorses their operation on streets. The town, by regulating such operation, is
merely addressing safety issues. This chapter is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in
accordance with this chapter. All persons operating UTVs must be observant of,
and attentive to the safety of themselves and others; including their
passengers, other motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians. All persons that
operate or ride UTVs on streets inside the town do so at their own risk. The
town shall have no liability under any theory of liability, for permitting UTVs
to be operated on streets under legislative authority granted by the State of
North Carolina, and pursuant to such legislative authority, such UTV operation
shall be in accordance with this chapter.
§ 78.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   UTVs shall only be operated on streets within the municipal limits of
the town in accordance with the following rules and regulations.
      (1)   Any person who operates a UTV in the town assumes all liability
associated with its operation.
      (2)   Any person who operates a UTV must be at least 18 years of age and
possess a valid driver’s license as required by the state for operation of a
motor vehicle. UTV operators must carry their driver’s licenses on their
persons at all times while operating the UTV on the streets within the
corporate limits.
      (3)   UTVs shall not be operated on the streets within the town between
the hours of official sunset and sunrise unless the UTV is properly equipped
with two working headlights one on each side of the front of the vehicle
visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of at least 300
feet, two working tail lights on the rear of the vehicle both exhibiting red
lights visible under like conditions from a distance of at least 200 feet,
working brake lights and working turn signals.
      (4)   UTVs shall only be driven on streets in the town with a posted
speed limit of 35 mph or less.
      (5)   UTVs shall not be operated on or alongside any portion of Wilkinson
Boulevard/Highway 29-74 unless crossing at a controlled intersection with a
street that has a posted speed limit of 35 mph or less.
      (6)   Any person who operates a UTV on the streets in the town shall
adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and use of
alcoholic beverages and illegal drugs, and all applicable state traffic laws.
      (7)   No UTV shall be operated in a careless or reckless manner so as to
endanger any person or property.
      (8)   UTVs shall be operated to the right side of the travel lane unless
making a left turn.
      (9)   The maximum occupancy of a UTV traveling on streets shall be one
person per bucket seat or two people per bench seat. Child/infant restraints
are required to be used in the same manner as required for passenger vehicles.
Passengers are not allowed to ride within the bed of the UTV.
      (10)   Persons operating or riding within any UTV on the streets within
the town shall wear a properly fastened seatbelt that has been installed by the
UTV manufacturer.
      (11)   The town encourages any person operating or riding within a UTV
upon the streets within the town wear a securely fastened safety helmet on his
or her head.
      (12)   UTVs shall not be operated on any sidewalk in the town, unless at
locations approved and designated by proper signage installed by the town.
      (13)   UTVs shall only operate on greenway or pedestrian trails that have
been approved and designated by proper signage installed by the town.
      (14)   UTVs shall not be operated on or across any public or private
properties outside the street right-of-way without the permission of the
property owner.
      (15)   UTVs shall only park in handicapped parking spaces if the driver
or at least one passenger has a valid handicap parking placard and such placard
is properly displayed in the UTV.
      (16)   UTVs shall not be operated at a speed greater than is reasonable
and prudent for the existing conditions and in no instance at a speed greater
than 20 mph and shall obey speed zones that may be less than 20 mph.
      (17)   All UTV owners that operate on the streets within the town shall
complete and submit a UTV registration form. The completed forms will be
maintained by the town’s Police Department. UTVs operated on the streets within
the town must have a valid permit/sticker issued by the Police Department. A
yearly registration fee will be charged for this permit/sticker to cover the
costs of implementing and maintaining this chapter. The fee amount will be
determined by the fee schedule adopted each year by the town. The Chief of
Police retains the right to refuse to issue and/or revoke any permit/sticker
from any UTV at any time for any reason that he or she feels is appropriate to
ensure the safety and well being of the citizens of the town or the motoring
public.
      (18)   Each UTV owner shall have proof of ownership, and must complete a
waiver of liability, releasing the town, its employees and officials from all
liability that may arise as a result of operating a UTV on streets inside the
town. Waivers of liability may be requested by the town’s Police Department at
the time of each permit renewal.
      (19)   Lost or stolen permit/stickers are the responsibility of the
owner. A police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/
sticker. The Chief of Police shall have discretion in determining whether a
permit/sticker may be re-issued in this instance. If no record can be found of
a previous application, or the receipt of a permit/sticker, the Chief of Police
may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and all fees
necessary, before a replacement permit/sticker is issued.
      (20)   Any person who operates a UTV on the streets shall have liability
insurance coverage in an amount sufficient to cover the risk involved in using
the UTV on the streets. Proof of such insurance shall be in the possession of
the operator of the UTV at all times and a copy shall be provided to the town’s
Police Department at the time of permitting and at the time of each permit
renewal. Such insurance shall specifically list the UTV as referenced by the
serial number and year of model.
   (B)   Any act constituting a violation of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements shall subject the offender to a civil penalty or
other listed remedies in accordance with the town code, plus any attorney fees
incurred by the town. Offenders are also subject to charges on state uniform
citations and arrest. If the offenders fail to pay any civil penalty within ten
days of its issuance, or if there are repeat ordinance violations, the
privileges and permit granted by this chapter may be revoked by the town’s
Police Department.
   (C)   UTVs used/owned by the town and operated for special events or
official business shall be exempt from permit fees, but shall otherwise comply
with the above requirements.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   SOLID WASTE AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
93.   FIRE PROTECTION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   NOISES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Animal control
   
90.02   Bird sanctuary
   
90.03   Purpose
   
90.04   Jurisdiction
   
90.05   Definitions
   
90.06   Administration and enforcement
   
90.07   Permit provisions
   
90.08   Violations
   
90.09   Exemptions
§ 90.01 ANIMAL CONTROL.
   In addition to the ordinances found within this chapter, the town has
adopted the county’s Animal Control Ordinance and related provisions contained
therein. A copy of the county’s Animal Control Ordinance is on file in the
office of the Town Clerk.
§ 90.02 BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The territory within the corporate limits of the town shall be and
hereby is declared a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill, trap or otherwise take
any bird within the corporate limits of the town.
§ 90.03 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to authority granted by the North Carolina General Assembly, this
animal control chapter is enacted to regulate, restrict or prohibit, if
necessary, animals; to protect the public from unvaccinated, diseased, stray,
roaming, dangerous or wild animals; to make unlawful acts of animals that
interfere with the enjoyment of property or the peace and safety of the
community; and to carry out any other lawful duties authorized by state laws
and applicable ordinances.
§ 90.04 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applicable within the corporate limits of the town.
§ 90.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions as well as those
contained within the county’s Animal Control Ordinance shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICERS. Persons appointed by the county to enforce all
sections of this chapter and applicable state laws and who are responsible for
discharging such other duties and functions as may be prescribed by the Board
of Commissioners of the county and the Town Board as set forward by this or any
other applicable ordinance or state law or pursuant to interlocal agreements.
   CODE. Town of Cramerton Code of Ordinances.
   CODE ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the Town Manager, and charged
with the interpretation of the Town of Cramerton Code of Ordinances.
   COUNTY. The County of Gaston, North Carolina.
   COUNTY DOG WARDEN. The Superintendent of the Gaston County Office of Animal
Control shall be the county’s Dog Warden and shall have all powers conferred by
state law upon the county’s Dog Warden or by this chapter upon animal control
officers.
   TOWN. The Town of Cramerton, North Carolina.
§ 90.06 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The town hereby authorizes the county’s Animal Control Administrator
and animal control officers to enforce the provisions of this chapter within
the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to enter into an agreement with the
county for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
§ 90.07 PERMIT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Dogs and cats. A permit shall be required for more than four dogs or
cats, four months or older, kept outside.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, or keep custody of or
to take care of more than four dogs, more than four cats or any combination of
dogs or cats numbering greater than four animals, four months or older, who are
frequently outside on the premises, unless the person has a special permit
issued by the town.
      (2)   If a person has more than four dogs or cats frequently outside on
the premises, then the Code Administrator must make the following five findings
in order to issue a special permit:
         (a)   Noise from the dogs or cats will not interfere with an abutting
occupant’s use and peaceful enjoyment of the property;
         (b)   Any odor or unsanitary conditions caused by the dogs or cats
will not interfere with an abutting occupant’s use and peaceful enjoyment of
the property;
         (c)   More than four dog runs or other dog-related structures or any
combination thereof shall not be permitted if the structures can be seen from
an abutting occupant’s property in a residentiary zoned district;
         (d)   There is no evidence that the dogs or cats pose any health
problem or disease exposure for abutting occupants; and
         (e)   The dogs or cats do not interfere in some other similar manner
with the peaceful use and enjoyment of abutting property.
   (B)   Livestock or other domestic animals.
      (1)   A permit, to be issued by the Planning and Zoning Department of the
town, must be obtained to keep any pigs, sheep, horses, mules or goats, or any
chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl, cattle or livestock
within town limits.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued and no person shall keep any pigs, sheep,
horses, mules or goats, or any ducks, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl
(excluding domesticated chickens), cattle or livestock on any lot or parcel of
land on which a residence, industry or business is located unless:
         (a)   Said lot or parcel of land contains two acres or more; and
         (b)   Animals are not located within 300 feet of any residence, place
of business or public street, or within 100 feet of any property line,
whichever is greater; and
         (c)   Animals are located within a pen or other enclosure which
provides at least 900 square feet of space for each animal or fowl.
         (d)   The Code Administrator shall issue a permit only when, in his or
her sound judgment, the keeping of such an animal in a yard or building under
the circumstances as set forth in the application for the permit will not
injuriously affect the public health.
      (3)   When animals or fowl are kept within corporate limits, the
building, structure, corral, pen or enclosure in which they are kept shall at
all times be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. Excrement should be
removed regularly from the living space of a penned animal adequate to the
sanitation of quarters and the health of the animal and the general public.
      (4)   This section shall not apply to, and no permit shall be required
for, any agricultural operation within G.S. § 106-700, Nuisance Liability of
Agricultural Operation.
   (C)   Chicken keeping requirements.
      (1)   Keeping of domesticated chickens.
         (a)   Roosters are prohibited.
         (b)   No more than four (4) chickens shall be kept or maintained.
         (c)   No chickens shall be allowed in multi-family complexes.
         (d)   There shall be no on-site slaughter of chickens.
         (e)   A permit must be obtained and renewed on an annual basis through
the Planning and Zoning Department.
      (2)   Coop, run, and tractor requirements.
         (a)   A predator proof coop or chicken tractor are required for the
keeping of domesticated chickens.
         (b)   Chicken keeping area must be located in the rear yard of the
property.
         (c)   Chicken keeping area must be at least 15 feet from any rear and
side property lines.
         (d)   Number and type of fowl must be appropriate for the size and
furnishings of the coop/run/tractor.
            (i)   Minimum of 4 square feet of floor area per chicken.
         (e)   Coops, runs, and chicken tractors must be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition with all droppings and organic waste material removed and
disposed of in a proper manner.
         (f)   All chickens must be kept in a coop or chicken tractor during
non-daylight hours. During daylight hours, chickens may be located in a coop,
run, chicken tractor, or securely fenced area.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2020)
§ 90.08 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, possess or maintain
an animal in such a manner as to constitute a public nuisance or a nuisance to
neighbors. By way of example and not of limitation, the following acts or
actions of an owner, harborer or possessor of an animal are hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and are, therefore, unlawful:
      (1)   Having an animal that disturbs the rights of, threatens the safety
of or damages a member of the general public or interferes with the ordinary
use and enjoyment of his or her property;
      (2)   Allowing or permitting an animal to damage the property of anyone
other than its owner, including, but not limited to, turning over garbage
containers or damaging gardens, flowers or vegetables, or defecating upon the
property of another;
      (3)   Maintaining animals in an environment of unsanitary conditions or
lack of cleanliness which results in offensive odor or is dangerous to the
public health, welfare or safety, or a failure to maintain a condition of good
order and cleanliness which reduces the probability of transmission of disease;
      (4)   Maintaining property that is offensive, annoying or dangerous to
the public health, safety or welfare of the community because of the number,
type, variety, density or location of the animals on the property;
      (5)   Allowing or permitting an animal to bark, whine, howl, crow or
cackle in an excessive, continuous or untimely fashion so as to interfere with
the reasonable use and enjoyment of neighboring premises;
      (6)   Maintaining an animal that is diseased and dangerous to the public
health; and/or
      (7)   Maintaining an animal that habitually or repeatedly chases, snaps
at, attacks or barks at pedestrians, joggers, dogs walked on a leash by owners,
bicycles or vehicles.
   (B)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by his or her animal(s) on public walks, recreation areas or
private property.
§ 90.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   It shall not be a violation of this chapter to allow a dog to run off-leash
while the dog is being properly supervised while utilizing a town-sponsored dog
park pursuant to §
131.15 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Burial only in cemeteries
   
91.03   Disruptive activities prohibited
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARKER. A plaque installed at ground level at the site of a grave to
indicate the name, date of birth and date of death of the person buried there.
   MAUSOLEUM. A structure or building substantially exposed above ground
intended to be used for the entombment of remains of a deceased person.
   MONUMENT. A memorial stone or other structure erected on a lot.
§ 91.02 BURIAL ONLY IN CEMETERIES.
   (A)   Only a dead human body may be buried in a cemetery, and no person may
bury or cause to be buried the body of any deceased person within the town
limits in any place other than a church cemetery or a cemetery operated by a
governmental entity or a private cemetery licensed or specifically exempted
from licensing according to the state’s Cemetery Act (G.S. Ch. 65, Art. 9).
   (B)   Nothing in division (A) above is designed to prohibit the burial of
any domestic animal remains within cemeteries designed exclusively for such
burials.
§ 91.03 DISRUPTIVE ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   No person may, without the consent of the person in charge of a cemetery, do
any of the following:
   (A)   Drive any motor vehicle of any kind in any cemetery, except upon the
main roads and avenues provided therein for vehicular traffic;
   (B)   Drive any motor vehicle or park any motor vehicle in any cemetery
unless in attendance at burial services or otherwise engaged in activities
consistent with the use of a cemetery as a cemetery;
   (C)   Take away, disturb, vandalize, destroy, tamper with or deface any
monument, marker, mausoleum, grave ornamentation or artifact, flowers, plants
or other articles within any cemetery erected to designate where a body is
interred or to preserve and perpetuate the memory and name of any person;
   (D)   Open, disturb, destroy, remove, vandalize or desecrate any chaset,
human remains or any portion thereof or the repository of any remains, by any
means including plowing under, tearing up, covering over or otherwise
obliterating or removing any grave; and/or
   (E)   Remain in any cemetery after dark unless participating in an event
sponsored or approved by the cemetery owner or management.
CHAPTER 92: SOLID WASTE AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Definitions
Control of Solid Wastes
   
92.015   Accumulation of solid wastes
   
92.016   Dumping or littering on public or private property
   
92.017   Containers required to reduce litter
   
92.018   Transportation of solid wastes and loose materials
Storage and Collection of Solid Wastes
   
92.030   Property owners provide adequate solid waste receptacles
   
92.031   Size, number and type of solid waste receptacles required
   
92.032   Storage and collection practices
   
92.032A      Recycle service
   
92.033   Special collection problems
   
92.034   Solid wastes the town will not collect
   
92.035   Receptacles and containers to be safe
   
92.036   Ownership of solid wastes
   
92.037   Interference with solid wastes and receptacles
   
92.038   Collection routes and schedules
   
92.039   Compliance with Town Manager’s determination
Abandoned, Nuisance and Junked Motor Vehicles
   
92.050   Abandoned, nuisance and junked motor vehicles
   
92.051   Removal of abandoned, junked, and nuisance vehicles authorized
   
92.052   Notice required before vehicle removed
   
92.053   Notice required when vehicle removed; hearing
   
92.054   Use of private towing operators
   
92.055   Disposal of abandoned vehicles
   
92.056   Disposal of junked vehicles
   
92.057   Certain vehicles exempt
Property Maintenance and Nuisance Abatement
   
92.070   Purpose
   
92.071   High weeds, grass, and vegetation
   
92.072   Junk and debris
   
92.073   Debris from construction left on property
   
92.074   Junk; removal
   
92.075   Abatement of violations
   
92.076   Civil penalties
   
92.077   Appeals
   
92.078   Disposal of vehicles
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that meets any of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Is left on public grounds or town-owned property in violation of a
law or ordinance prohibiting parking.
      (2)   Is left for longer than two hours on private property without the
consent of the owner, occupant or lessee of the property.
      (3)   Is left for longer than seven days on public grounds.
   ASHES. Residue resulting from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other
combustible material.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Any material such as lumber, brick, plaster, gutters,
fences or other substances accumulated as a result of repairs or additions to
existing buildings, construction or new buildings or demolition of existing
structures.
   BULK CONTAINER. A metal container designed for the storage of solid wastes
pending collection and constructed so that it can be emptied mechanically by a
solid waste collection vehicle. As used in this chapter, the term also includes
a portable packing unit.
   BUSINESS TRASH. Any waste accumulation of dust, paper and cardboard,
excelsior, rags or other accumulations, other than garbage or household trash,
which are usually attendant to the operation of stores, offices and similar
businesses.
   CHRONIC VIOLATOR. A person who owns property whereupon, in the previous
calendar year, the town gave notice of violation of this chapter at least three
times under any provision of this chapter.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The persons assigned by the Town Manager to carry
out the duties of enforcing the code of ordinances for the town.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Any retail, manufacturing, wholesale,
institutional, religious, governmental or other nonresidential establishment at
which garbage or trash may be generated.
   DEBRIS. Remains of anything broken, broken down, taken apart, damaged or
destroyed including but not limited to litter or trash.
   ESTABLISHED DRIVEWAY. An area that is paved, graveled, bare of vegetation or
otherwise clearly indicative of the area that is normally used for vehicles to
enter onto or exit from real property from or to a public or private street.
   GARBAGE. All solid wastes capable of being rapidly decomposed by
microorganisms, including but not limited to animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, as
well as animal offal and carcasses, but excluding sewage and human wastes.
   HAZARDOUS REFUSE. Material such as cleaning fluids, crankcase oils, cutting
oils, paints, explosives, acids, caustics, poisons, drugs, radioactive
products, infected materials, offal, fecal matter and any other material
meeting the definitions set forth in 40 CFR 261.3.
   HOUSEHOLD TRASH. Every waste accumulation of paper, sweepings, dust rags,
bottles, cans, cardboard, plastic, small pieces of wood, rubber, leather or
other matter of any kind, other than garbage and yard trash, which is usually
attendant to housekeeping.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. All wastes, including solids, semi-solids, sludges and
liquids resulting directly from industrial, processing or manufacturing
operations.
   JUNK. Worn out or discarded metal, old iron, used plumbing parts or
fixtures, other metals, automobile parts, chains, copper, machines or parts of
machinery, bottles, rags, tallow, hide, worn-out tires, broken glass, aluminum,
tin or other sharp, pointed, jagged or rusted metal or other articles commonly
known as JUNK. In addition JUNK means household appliances and upholstered
furniture and mattresses not designed or manufactured for outdoor use.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. A motor vehicle that does not display a current
license plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in a manner in which it was
originally intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any machine designed or intended to travel over land or
water by self-propulsion or while attached to a self-propelled vehicle.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, partnership, authority created by
statute, association or other entity of combination thereof.
   PORTABLE PACKING UNIT. A metal, solid waste storage container that contains
a packing mechanism and an internal or external power unit.
   REFUSE. Solid waste accumulations consisting of garbage, household trash,
yard trash and business trash as defined in this section.
   REFUSE RECEPTACLE. A container that meets the requirements of §
92.031.
   SMALL DEAD ANIMALS. Cats, dogs, small household pets and other animals of
similar size.
   SOLID WASTES. Wastes that are nongaseous and nonliquid (except that liquid
wastes resulting from the processing of food are deemed solid wastes for the
purposes of this chapter).
   SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES. Bulk containers, refuse receptacles and yard trash
containers.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager and or his or her designee is authorized to
perform the duties and responsibilities as prescribed in this chapter.
   TREE TRIMMINGS. Waste accumulation of tree branches, tree limbs, parts of
trees, leaves or other matter usually created as refuse in the care of trees
and bushes.
   WASTES. All useless, unwanted or discarded materials resulting from
domestic, industrial, commercial or community activities.
   YARD. Land area immediately adjacent to the primary building on the
premises. YARDS are broken into front, rear, and side. FRONT YARDS extend from
the architectural front of a building to the fronting street or right-of-way.
SIDE YARDS extend from the sides of a building to a street right-of-way or
property line. REAR YARDS extend from the back of a building to a property line
or right-of-way. If there is not a building on the property, the entire
property shall be deemed the front yard.
   YARD DEBRIS. Waste accumulation of lawn, grass and shrubbery cuttings or
clippings, free of dirt, rocks, large branches and bulky or noncombustible
material.
   YARD DEBRIS CONTAINERS. Securely sealed plastic bags, 32-gallon trash
containers or four- foot by four-foot tarp.
(‘87 Code, § 11-1) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022;
Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
CONTROL OF SOLID WASTES
§ 92.015 ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTES.
   (A)   No person may cause, suffer or permit solid wastes to accumulate or
remain on premises under his or her control except in accordance with the
provisions of §§
92.030 through
92.999 of this chapter. The remaining divisions of this section are not
intended to limit the generality of the foregoing.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the general contractor to see that
all construction and demolition contractors keep the site in as reasonably
clean and litter free condition as possible for a construction or demolition
site. All loose debris, paper, building material waste, scrap building
materials and other trash produced by those working on the site shall be
containerized or disposed of in any other reasonable manner by the contractor.
Dirt, mud, construction materials or other debris deposited upon any public or
private property as a result of construction or demolition shall be immediately
removed by the contractor.
   (C)   All commercial establishments shall, particularly with respect to
their loading and unloading areas, store their refuse in containers so as to
eliminate wind driven debris and litter in and about the establishments.
Approved methods of containerization include refuse receptacles and bulk
containers. Spillage and overflow shall be immediately cleaned up by the
establishment.
   (D)   The person in possession of property shall maintain the property,
including sidewalks, grass strips, one-half of alleys, curbs or rights-of-way
up to the edge of the pavement of any public street, in a clean and litter-free
manner.
   (E)   Parking lots shall be maintained by the person in possession in a
clean, litter-free manner, with all trash generated therein containerized and
prevented from spreading to adjoining property. It shall be the responsibility
of the person in possession of the parking lot to collect the refuse and trash
deposited on the lot and place this material in containers serviced by the town
or a private contractor.
(‘87 Code, § 11-2) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
Cross-reference:
   For special cleaning or repairs and requirements, see §
94.24
§ 92.016 DUMPING OR LITTERING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
    As provided in G.S. § 14-399, no person may place, discard, throw, drop or
deposit or cause to be placed, discarded, thrown, dropped or deposited any
solid wastes on the following:
   (A)   Any public street, sidewalk or storm drainage ditch within the town or
on any other public property, except in properly designated receptacles.
   (B)   Any property not owned by him or her without the consent of the owner,
occupant or lessee thereof.
   (C)   In any stream or body of water.
(‘87 Code, § 11-3) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.017 CONTAINERS REQUIRED TO REDUCE LITTER.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Manager determines that, because of the nature of a
commercial establishment or because of the type of activity that regularly
occurs on any nonresidential premises, solid wastes are commonly or routinely
deposited by the customers, employees, licensees or invitees of the premises
onto the parking areas or other open spaces of the premises or adjacent
properties or streets, the Town Manager may require that the person in
possession of the premises provide and locate on the premises, in locations
specified by the Town Manager to be necessary to minimize the litter problem to
the extent reasonably possible and practicable under the circumstances. This
section is specifically intended to apply, but shall not be limited to, those
establishments commonly known as fast food restaurants, strip shopping centers
and convenience stores.
   (B)   The presumptions established by this section are that, to satisfy the
standard set forth in division (A) of this section, one refuse receptacle for
every 20 parking spaces or fraction thereof, with a minimum of two receptacles
per parking lot, will be required for establishments commonly known as fast
food restaurants and convenience stores, and one refuse receptacle for every 30
parking spaces or fraction thereof, with a minimum of two receptacles per
parking lot, will be required for establishments commonly known as strip
shopping centers. However, these are only presumptive standards to guide the
discretion of the Town Manager, and the Town Manager may find in any particular
case that more or fewer receptacles are necessary to satisfy the standard set
forth in division (A) of this section.
   (C)   Whenever premises served by bulk containers are required under
division (A) of this section to locate on the premises other refuse receptacles
for the use of employees, customers, licensees or invitees, or whenever the
other refuse receptacles are furnished voluntarily, the person in possession of
the premises shall collect the solid waste deposited in the containers and
place this material in the bulk containers serviced by the town or by a private
contractor.
   (D)   No person on the parking area or other open spaces of any premises
where refuse receptacles are provided for the convenience of customers,
employees, licensees or invitees may place, discard, throw, drop or deposit or
cause to be placed, thrown, dropped or deposited, any solid wastes on the
premises except in properly designated receptacles.
(‘87 Code, § 11-4) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.018 TRANSPORTATION OF SOLID WASTES AND LOOSE MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person may transport or cause to be transported any solid wastes on
the public streets of the town unless the solid wastes are so secured that no
solid wastes escape from the transporting vehicle. In addition, any garbage so
transported shall be carried in closed containers that prevent the escape of
noxious odors or liquids.
   (B)   No person may transport or cause to be transported on the public
streets of the town any loose materials capable of being easily blown or
scattered or otherwise deposited on the street or adjacent areas unless the
materials are properly covered or secured to prevent escape from the
transporting vehicle. This division (B) shall not apply to the transportation
of poultry or livestock.
(‘87 Code, § 11-5) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
STORAGE AND COLLECTION OF SOLID WASTES
§ 92.030 PROPERTY OWNERS PROVIDE ADEQUATE SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES.
   The owner of every premise shall be responsible for providing adequate solid
waste receptacles in accordance with this chapter to store the solid wastes
generated by activities taking place on those premises between scheduled
pickups.
(‘87 Code, § 11-16) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.031 SIZE, NUMBER AND TYPE OF SOLID WASTE RECEPTACLES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person owning or occupying a single and/or multi-family
residential unit shall store all garbage and refuse in containers, as specified
herein, so as to eliminate wind driven debris and unsightly litter in and about
their premises.
   (B)   Each single-family unit shall use one 96-gallon rollout container, so
long as the containers are provided by the town or its contractors. Additional
containers, if needed, may be obtained, when supplies permit, by the payment of
the monthly contract fee for residential service times the number of extra
containers or as determined by the town and/or is contractor. Additional
containers shall be limited to two. Each container will be assigned by and will
remain the property of the town or its contractor. Except by the town or its
contractor, the container shall not be moved from the residence where assigned.
   (C)   Containers shall be used for the purpose of holding regular household
type refuse. No items such as sticks, yard clippings, leaves, nor items listed
in §
92.034 and the like may be placed in rollout containers used for garbage.
   (D)   Stones, bricks, iron items, and the like shall not be placed in the
containers.
   (E)   The town will be responsible for repairing or replacing containers
only for normal wear and tear. All other damage to the containers may be
assessed against the property owner and/or tenant of the property. This policy
shall also apply to missing containers. Residents should call the Town Hall
when rollout carts need repairs.
   (F)   Residents are required to clean rollout containers when needed to keep
down odor and insects.
   (G)   After warning, violations of this section may result in penalties as
spelled out in this chapter.
(‘87 Code, § 11-17) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
§ 92.032 STORAGE AND COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Premises served by bulk containers. Subject to the remaining
provisions of this chapter, all premises served by bulk containers shall be
subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The size, type and location of bulk containers shall be approved in
writing by the Town Manager after consultation with the owner of the premises
concerned. In making this determination, the Town Manager shall consider the
needs of the occupants of the premises, the welfare of the occupants and
neighbors.
      (2)   All bulk containers shall be cleaned by the owner periodically to
minimize offensive odors, and the tops or openings to all bulk containers shall
be kept closed at all times pending collection. In addition, all bulk
containers shall at all times be kept (by the owner) clean, neat, painted and
in a good state of repair.
      (3)   The town shall not provide service to bulk containers.
      (4)   Household furniture and appliances, small dead animals, cardboard
boxes and cartons will be collected only pursuant to the provisions of §
92.033.
('87 Code, § 11-18)
   (B)   Premises not served by bulk containers. Subject to the remaining
provisions of this chapter, all premises not served by bulk containers shall be
subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Pending collection by the town, garbage, household trash and
business trash shall be stored in conformity to the following regulations:
         (a)   All garbage, household trash and business trash shall be stored
only in appropriate refuse receptacles as set forth in §
92.031 and the receptacles shall be covered at all times with tight-fitting
covers or, in the case of plastic bags, shall be tightly sealed.
         (b)   Garbage shall be bagged in a plastic bag with sufficient wall
strength to maintain their physical integrity while being lifted by the top
when the weight of the bag and its contents equals 35 pounds. Any liquid waste,
such as grease, shall be sealed in its own separate container before being
placed in the refuse receptacle. All bagged household garbage shall be placed
in the refuse receptacle provided for pick-up.
         (c)   All dangerous trash items and all waste material of a hazardous
nature, such as broken glass, light bulbs, sharp pieces of metal, fluorescent
tubes and television tubes shall be securely wrapped to prevent injury to the
collection crews.
         (d)   Garbage and household trash will be collected by the town or its
contractor.
         (e)   No refuse shall be collected where refuse receptacles cannot be
serviced by sanitation personnel without unlocking, opening or reaching over a
door, gate or similar obstacle, encountering a porch, carport or garage,
encountering a dog, or otherwise being denied reasonable access by parked
vehicles, yard tools, equipment or similar objects.
      (2)   The town may provide yard debris collection services. Pending
collection, yard debris shall be stored in conformity with the following
regulations:
         (a)   All yard debris shall be stored in securely sealed plastic bags,
32-gallon trash cans (and not in town provided receptacles) or placed upon a
four-by-four tarp, and shall not exceed 75 pounds.
         (b)   Yard debris stored in compliance with division (B)(2)(a) above
shall be placed at curbside, but not blocking roads, sidewalks, or drainage
ditches on a schedule to be determined by the town.
      (3)   The town may provide tree trimming collection services. Tree
trimmings shall be stored pending collection in conformity with the following
regulations:
         (a)   Tree trimmings shall be placed at curbside, but not blocking
roads, sidewalks or drainage ditches, for collection by the town on a schedule
to be determined by the town.
         (b)   No tree trunks, branches or limbs larger than six inches in
diameter, longer than five feet or heavier than 75 pounds shall be collected by
the town. Piles may be no greater than five feet by five feet by five feet with
no more than two piles each collection period.
         (c)   Tree limbs shall have protruding branches trimmed and shall be
neatly stacked and placed in an orderly manner at curbside, but not blocking
roads, sidewalks, or drainage ditches.
         (d)   Shrubbery trimmings and thorny vegetation shall be placed near
the curbside, but not blocking roads, sidewalks, or drainage ditches, in small,
neat piles. All trimmings shall be effectively secured to prevent scattering by
the wind.
         (e)   The town shall not collect tree and shrubbery trimmings
resulting from work performed by landscaping or tree service contractors or
other commercial workmen or resulting from land clearing work.
      (4)   Loose leaves may be placed pending collection near the street in
the front yard, and may not be placed in right of way including drainage
ditches, streets, sidewalks and other public rights of way.
      (5)   Refuse receptacles and recycle bins may be placed near the street
on the evening prior to collection day but not blocking streets or sidewalks.
Refuse receptacles and all other containers or bins must be returned to the
principal structure and neatly stored by 9:00 p.m. the day after pickup.
      (6)   Disabled provisions. In the event a resident is physically unable
to place the cart at the curbside, the resident may request and receive
backyard pick-up with a doctor’s certification.
      (7)   Receptacles or containers other than those described in §
92.031 may be treated as solid waste and may be collected by the town.
      (8)   Receptacles or containers weighing, when full, more than 75 pounds
will not be collected by the town. Small dead animals, household furniture and
appliances, and cardboard cartons and boxes will be collected only pursuant to
the provisions of §
92.033.
(‘87 Code, § 11-19) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022;
Ord. passed 3-19-2024)  Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.032A RECYCLE SERVICE.
   The town, at its discretion, may provide residential recycling service.
Items subject to recycling shall be placed in bins as provided by the town and
placed at curbside, but not blocking streets or sidewalks, on designated
collection days. Recyclable items include newspapers, magazines, cardboard
(boxes must be broken down) cut to pieces not to exceed 36 inches by 36 inches,
“junk” mail, other paper, plastic milk jugs and other drink bottles, steel and
aluminum cans. No other items shall be placed in recycling bins. This list may
be changed from time to time with notice in the town newsletter and website.
   (A)   Each single-family unit shall use one 96-gallon rollout container
provided by the town or its contractors. Additional containers, if needed, may
be obtained, when supplies permit, by additional payment as determined by the
town or its contractor. Additional containers shall be limited to two. Each
container will be assigned and will remain the property of the town or its
contractor. Except by the town or its contractor, the container shall not be
moved from the residence where assigned.
   (B)   Recycling shall not be mixed with any other garbage, trash or yard
waste. Recycling found to be mixed will not be collected until it has been
separated and after warning, additional violations may result on penalties as
spelled out in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
§ 92.033 SPECIAL COLLECTION PROBLEMS.
   (A)   Special collection of household furniture and appliances. Upon
request, the town may collect normal household discarded furniture and
appliances, including sofas, chairs, beds, refrigerators, washers, dryers,
water heaters and similar items, but not including furnaces and central air
conditioners. Discarded household furniture, appliances, bedding and mattresses
will be picked up on a schedule to be determined by the town. These items may
not be placed on vacant lots or on rights of way.
   (B)   Dead animals. Small dead animals, except from slaughterhouses and
rendering plants, will be collected by the town during normal operating hours
provided that, when practical, the bodies are to be sealed in a plastic bag
then placed in front of the premises upon the grass strip between the street
and the sidewalk where these strips exist; otherwise, they should be placed off
that portion of the street right-of-way used by vehicles, pedestrians or used
for surface drainage. Owners of large dead animals shall be responsible for
their removal and disposal.
   (C)   Cardboard boxes and cartons. The person in charge of the premises or
the one disposing of them shall collapse all cardboard boxes, cartons and
crates prior to depositing them in authorized containers.
(‘87 Code, § 11-20) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.034 SOLID WASTES THE TOWN WILL NOT COLLECT.
   The town will not collect the following types of solid wastes and it shall
be unlawful for any person to place any of the following in any container or
receptacle intended for collection by the town.
   (A)   Hazardous refuse and industrial waste. All such refuse shall be stored
in suitable leak proof containers that will ensure that no such refuse or
wastes leak or spill onto any public or private property. It shall be the
responsibility of the person in possession of the premises to see that it is
disposed of properly.
   (B)   Oils, lubricants or any other type matter that may damage the
container, cause it to leak, erode wheel parts, or violate any state or federal
disposal laws.
   (C)   Contagious disease refuses. The removal of clothing, bedding, or other
refuse from homes or the places where highly infectious diseases have occurred
shall be performed under the supervision and direction of the County Health
Department.
   (D)   Materials defined as biohazards.
   (E)   Materials of any kind or nature, including ashes, that contains any
hot or live coals or fire.
   (F)   Raw or uncooked seafood or meats unless tightly wrapped in plastic
bags.
   (G)   Hypodermic needles and/or any other sharp object.
   (H)   Paints, thinners and other such HHW items. Latex paint may be disposed
of but must be dried first and not be in a liquid state.
   (I)   Computer parts, TVs and other electronic equipment.
   (J)   Building rubbish.
   (K)   Tires, automobile wheels and other auto parts.
   (L)   Any other items that are banned from disposal in the landfill, or in
the opinion of the Public Works Director should not be collected.
(‘87 Code, § 11-21) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.035 RECEPTACLES AND CONTAINERS TO BE SAFE.
   All receptacles and containers required by this chapter shall be of safe
construction and design and shall be maintained in good and serviceable
condition at all times. Any receptacles or containers that do not conform to
the provisions of this chapter or that have ragged or sharp edges or any other
defects likely to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents thereof
or the public generally shall be promptly replaced upon notice. If the
containers are not replaced, the town may refuse to service the containers.
(‘87 Code, § 11-22) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.036 OWNERSHIP OF SOLID WASTES.
   All solid waste, yard debris, recycling and bulk waste, which is properly
placed at curbside for collection, is deemed to be abandoned and becomes the
property of the town or its agents.
(‘87 Code, § 11-23) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
§ 92.037 INTERFERENCE WITH SOLID WASTES AND RECEPTACLES.
   No person may damage, displace, separate, collect, remove or otherwise
interfere with solid waste receptacles or solid wastes stored or prepared for
collection except with the consent of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
premises where those receptacles or solid wastes are located.
(‘87 Code, § 11-24) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.038 COLLECTION ROUTES AND SCHEDULES.
   (A)   The town shall establish collection routes and schedules and may alter
these routes and schedules from time to time. A copy of the current routes and
schedules shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners may establish and revise from time to time
a policy relating to the number of times per week the town will collect solid
wastes from various classifications of premises and the maximum number of solid
waste receptacles that the town will service on any one premises. A copy of
this policy shall be kept on file in the office of the Clerk.
(‘87 Code, § 11-25) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
§ 92.039 COMPLIANCE WITH TOWN MANAGER’S DETERMINATION.
   Whenever this chapter authorized the Town Manager to make a discretionary
determination, all persons affected by that determination shall comply with it
within two calendar days after receiving written notice of the determination
and the reasons for it. Thereafter a failure on the part of any person
receiving the notice to comply with the determination shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(‘87 Code, § 11-26) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
Penalty, see §
92.999
ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 92.050 ABANDONED, NUISANCE AND JUNKED VEHICLES NOT ALLOWED.
   It shall be unlawful to have any junked or abandoned motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of public or private property. It shall also be
unlawful to have any junked or abandoned motor vehicle on the premises of
public or private property after the vehicle has been ordered removed.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE: A vehicle that meets any of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Is left on public grounds or town-owned property in violation of a
law or ordinance prohibiting parking.
      (2)   Is left for longer than two hours on private property without
consent of the owner, occupant, or lessee of the property.
      (3)   Is left for longer than seven days on public grounds.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES. A motor vehicle that does not display a current
license plate and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in a manner in which it was
originally intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests;
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation over
eight inches in height;
      (3)   A point of collection of pools or ponds of water;
      (4)   A point of concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
      (5)   One which has areas of confinement which cannot be operated from
the inside, such as trunks, hoods and the like;
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
      (7)   One which is a point of collection of garbage, food waste, animal
waste or any other rotten or putrescible matter of any kind;
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass; or
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the Mayor and Commissioners.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. Any machine designed or intended to travel over land or
water by self-propulsion or while attached to a self-propelled vehicle.
(Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.051 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, JUNKED, AND NUISANCE VEHICLES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) of this section, whenever it is made to appear
to appropriate town officials that abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor
vehicles exist within town limits, the town may have the vehicles removed to a
storage yard or area and thereafter may dispose of them in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   No motor vehicle may be removed from private property without the
written request of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises, except in
accordance with §§
92.070 through
92.076 of this chapter.
   (C)   The town may require any person requesting the removal of a junked,
nuisance or abandoned motor vehicle from private property to indemnify the town
against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the removal, storage
or sale thereof.
(‘87 Code, § 11-31) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.052 NOTICE REQUIRED BEFORE VEHICLE REMOVED.
   (A)   Before removing an abandoned vehicle the town shall give written
notice of its intent to remove the vehicle to the owner of the vehicle at his/
her last known address, according to the latest registration certificate or
certificate of title on file with the state Division of Motor Vehicles or if
the information is not available, according to the best information reasonably
available concerning the owner's last known address.
   (B)   The notice required by division (A) of this section shall state why
the vehicle is subject to removal and shall inform the owner that, unless he/
she removes the vehicle within five days after the date the notice is
postmarked the town shall have the vehicle removed and that, in the event, all
charges incidental to the removal and storage of the vehicle will have to be
paid before it may be reclaimed. The notice shall also provide the owner with
the name and phone number of a representative of the town who may be contacted
to discuss any matter contained in the notice.
   (C)   Notice to the owners shall not be required before removing vehicles
that are classified as abandoned for reasons other than those specified in
division (A) of this section or for vehicles that are classified as junk or
nuisance vehicles.
(‘87 Code, § 11-32) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.053 NOTICE REQUIRED WHEN VEHICLE REMOVED; HEARING.
   (A)   When any junked, nuisance or abandoned motor vehicle is removed in
accordance with this chapter, the town shall promptly give written notice of
the removal to the owner of the vehicle at his/her last known address,
according to the latest registration certificate or certificate of title on
file with the state Division of Motor Vehicles, or if the information is not
available, according to the best information reasonably available concerning
the owner's last known address.
   (B)   The notice required by division (A) of this section shall be sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested. It shall state as follows:
      (1)   Why and under what authority the vehicle was removed.
      (2)   Where the vehicle is located.
      (3)   How the vehicle may be reclaimed (including the payment of any
required towing and storage charges).
      (4)   That the vehicle may be disposed of if not reclaimed within 30
days.
      (5)   The name and phone number of a representative of the town who may
be contacted should the owner wish to be heard in the matter as provided in
division (C) of this section.
   (C)   The town representative specified in division (B) of this section
shall hold an informal hearing as soon as reasonably possible upon request of a
person whose vehicle has been towed in accordance with this chapter. If the
town representative determines that the vehicle was towed in error, the town
shall do the following:
      (1)   If the hearing is held before the vehicle is reclaimed, notify the
person in possession of the vehicle to release it and (if the vehicle is in the
possession of a private towing operator) pay all charges.
      (2)   If the hearing is held after the vehicle is reclaimed, reimburse
the owner for all charges incurred incident to the towing and storage of the
vehicle.
(‘87 Code, § 11-33) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.054 USE OF PRIVATE TOWING OPERATORS.
   The town may have vehicles removed under this chapter by private towing
operators. The private towing operators shall have a lien on the vehicles towed
and may dispose of the vehicles in accordance with the provisions of G.S. Ch.
44A, Art. 1.
(‘87 Code, § 11-34) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.055 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever an abandoned motor vehicle is removed by the town then after
holding the vehicle for 30 days after removal, the town may sell or dispose of
it as provided in this section.
   (B)   If the vehicle appears to be worth less than $100, the town may
dispose of it as a junked motor vehicle as provided in §
92.055. With the consent of the owner, the town may remove and dispose of any
motor vehicle as a junked motor vehicle, without regard to the value, condition
or age of the vehicle, and without holding it for any prescribed period of
time.
   (C)   If the vehicle is worth $100 or more, it shall be sold at public
auction. Twenty days written notice of the sale shall be given to the
registered owner at his/her last known address, the holders of all liens of
record against the vehicle, and the state Division of Motor Vehicles.
   (D)   Any person having an interest in the vehicle may redeem it at any time
before the sale by paying all costs accrued to date.
   (E)   The proceeds of the sale shall be paid to the town Finance Officer,
who shall pay to the appropriate officers or persons the costs of removal,
storage, investigation, sale and liens of record, in that order. The remainder
of the proceeds of sale, if any, shall be paid over to the registered owner, or
held by the town for 60 days if the registered owner cannot be located with
reasonable diligence. If the owner does not claim the remainder of the proceeds
within 60 days after the sale, the funds shall be deposited in the town general
fund and the owner's right shall forever be extinguished.
   (F)   When it receives a town bill of sale from a purchaser or other person
entitled to receive any vehicle disposed of as provided in this section, the
state Division of Motor Vehicles will issue a certificate of title for the
vehicle as required by law.
(‘87 Code, § 11-35) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.056 DISPOSAL OF JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES.
   (A)   Whenever a junked or nuisance motor vehicle is removed by the town
then, after holding the unclaimed junked vehicle for 15 days, the town may
destroy it or sell it at private sale as junk.
   (B)   Within 15 days after final disposition as a junked or nuisance motor
vehicle, the town shall notify the state Division of Motor Vehicles that the
vehicle has been determined to be a junked motor vehicle and disposed of as
such. The notice shall contain as simple and accurate a description of the
vehicle as can be reasonably determined.
   (C)   Any proceeds from the sale of a junked or nuisance motor vehicle shall
be paid to the town Finance Officer, who shall pay to the appropriate officers
or persons the costs of removal, storage, investigations, sale and liens of
record in that order. The remainder of the proceeds of sale, if any, shall be
paid over to the registered owner, or held by the town for 30 days if the
registered owner cannot be located with reasonable diligence. If the owner does
not appear to claim the proceeds within 30 days after disposal of the vehicle,
the money shall be deposited in the town general fund and the owner's rights
forever extinguished.
(‘87 Code, § 11-36) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.057 CERTAIN VEHICLES EXEMPT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any vehicle in an enclosed
building or any vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise being operated
in a lawful place and manner if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of
the enterprise, or to any vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the town.
(‘87 Code, § 11-37) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE AND NUISANCE ABATEMENT
§ 92.070 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to the authority conferred upon the town
by the general assembly of the state for purposes of creating conditions
essential to the health, safety, convenience and general welfare.
(Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18)
§ 92.071 HIGH WEEDS, GRASS, AND VEGETATION.
   (A)   Any growth of weeds or grass 12 inches or higher is a violation:
      (1)   Any improved property shall be cut in its entirety. Improved
property means any parcel that has been altered from its natural state for
development.
      (2)   Every owner and/or occupant of any lot, on any street, shall keep
the right-of-way, the planting strip, street curbs, storm drains, sidewalks,
driveways, and the like, free and clear of any grass, weeds, vegetation, and
other debris.
      (3)   This subsection shall not apply to lands certified, dedicated, or
designated by the Town or other appropriate governmental agency as vegetative
buffer, floodplain, stream buffer, open space or other natural or
environmentally sensitive area established to protect the public or protect and
preserve natural greenways, floodways, streams or water quality.
   (B)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of strong odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice,
snakes or vermin of any kind;
   It shall be the responsibility of the owner and/or occupant to cut and/or
remove all grass, weeds, or accumulation of other noxious matter listed herein
as often as necessary to comply with the provisions of this section. (Ord.
passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.072 JUNK AND DEBRIS.
   Every person owning or occupying a premises within the town corporate limits
shall keep the property clean. The existence of any of the following conditions
on any property, vacant lot or other parcel of land within the corporate limits
is dangerous and prejudicial to the public health or safety and is hereby
declared a public nuisance.
   (A)   Any accumulation of LITTER, DEBRIS, REFUSE, GARBAGE, JUNK, HAZARDOUS
REFUSE, HOUSEHOLD TRASH, BUSINESS TRASH, SCRAP MATERIALS, or ANIMAL EXCREMENT
as defined in this chapter on any front, side or rear yard or on any porch, or
underneath any building.
   (B)   Any accumulation of debris from the demolition of any structure,
including but not limited to partially demolished walls, foundations,
basements, building materials and other rubbish after the cessation of all
active demolition activity on the property;
   (C)   Any swimming pool or its appurtenances which is dangerous or
prejudicial to public health and safety, including but not limited to pools
with stagnant water, debris, dead animals or structural deficiencies; or
   (D)   Any condition found by the Town Manager or designee to be detrimental
to the health of the town or any of its inhabitants, or which is violative of
any of the rules and regulations of the Mayor and Commissioners.
   (E)   Any condition detrimental to the public health and safety which
violates the rules and regulations of the county Health Department.
(‘87 Code, § 11-43) (Am. Ord. passed 7-7-97; Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18;
Ord. passed 1-10-2022) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.073 DEBRIS FROM CONSTRUCTION LEFT ON PROPERTY.
   All refuse, lumber, debris and other building materials on private property
which are visible from the street or an adjoining lot for any reason including,
but not limited to, construction in progress for the remodel or repair of any
existing buildings, the erection and completion of any new buildings or the
addition to existing buildings, all pursuant to a lawfully-issued and
currently-active building permit, shall be removed by the property owner
immediately or, in the event of work under a building permit, within 15
calendar days from the completion of the aforesaid work. An owner or occupant
may need to verify that construction is currently in progress if there has been
no construction activity for over 30 calendar days and show good cause why the
town should not abate the refuse, lumber, debris and other building materials
left or stored on the property.
(Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.074 JUNK; REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any land, building,
structure, dwelling or dwelling unit to place or leave (or allowed to be placed
or remain) outside of any such building, structure,
dwelling or dwelling unit or upon such land any dilapidated furniture, icebox,
refrigerator, stove or other appliance, machinery, equipment, building material
or other item or junk which is either in a wholly or partially rusted, wrecked,
junked, dismantled or inoperative condition or which is not completely enclosed
within a building.
(Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.075 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Contract for abatement services. Whenever the town manager, or his or
her authorized designee, has determined that a violation of this article and/or
a nuisance exists and has provided proper notice thereof, the property owner,
occupant or person in possession of the premises on which the nuisance is
located may contract with the town to remove such conditions at a fee paid in
advance and upon such terms and conditions as the town manager, or his or her
authorized designee, may approve, except that as a condition of all such
agreements the property owner, occupant or person in charge of the premises
shall by signed writing in advance of any work release the town from any
liability arising from or resulting from the removal of such conditions. In the
event the owner of the property is not the occupant, then a signed release
shall be required from both the property owner and the occupant before the town
will proceed.
   (B)   Abatement for chronic violations. Whenever the town manager, or his or
her authorized designee, has determined that a violation of this article and/or
a nuisance exists and has provided proper notice thereof pursuant to this
subsection, the town may proceed to abate a nuisance on property owned by a
chronic violator. In such a case, the town shall notify a chronic violator of
this article and that, if the violator's property is found to be in continued
violation of this article, the town shall, without further notice in the
calendar year in which notice is given, take action to remedy the violation,
and the expense of the action shall become a lien upon the property and shall
be collected as unpaid taxes. For a chronic violator, the town's initial annual
notice (that the town will abate the nuisance) shall be served by registered or
certified mail, with a copy sent by regular mail.
   (C)   Summary abatement for health and safety violations. Whenever the town
manager, or his or her authorized designee, has determined that a violation of
this article and/or a nuisance exists and has provided proper notice thereof,
upon the failure of the property owner, occupant or person in possession of the
premises to take the corrective action ordered by the board or the town
manager, or his or her authorized designee, within the time specified, the town
may remove, abate or remedy the condition that is dangerous or detrimental to
the public health or public safety and the expense of such action shall be paid
by the person in default pursuant to G.S. § 160A-193. If not paid, such
expenses shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the violation
occurred and may be collected as unpaid ad valorem taxes.
   (D)   Remedies available notwithstanding civil penalties. Each of these
remedies shall be and remain available to the town notwithstanding any civil
penalties that have been issued under §
92.076, civil penalties.
(Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18)
§ 92.076 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any violation of this article or the failure to abide by any lawful
order issued pursuant to this Article shall be punishable as provided herein:
      (1)   In accordance with the requirements of G.S. § 160A-175(b), it is
expressly declared that violation of any provision hereof or a failure to
comply with any of this article's requirements or orders issued hereunder shall
not be considered a misdemeanor or infraction under G.S. § 14-4 or § 14-3.1,
but shall constitute a civil offense and shall subject the offender to a civil
penalty as set forth herein. After notice of violation/warning citation has
been issued and the violation is not corrected at the end of 10 calendar days,
the Town may abate the nuisance condition and/or issue a civil citation and
impose civil penalties as set forth in the table below.
NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV) OR INITIAL WARNING
Opportunity to Appeal to the Board of Commissioners within 15 days of NOV or
initial warning
CITATION CIVIL PENALTY AMOUNT
NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV) OR INITIAL WARNING
Opportunity to Appeal to the Board of Commissioners within 15 days of NOV or
initial warning
CITATION                                  CIVIL PENALTY AMOUNT
First penalty citation                    $100.00
The fine shall be paid within 15 days and the violation shall be corrected
within 15 days from citation.
Second penalty citation                   $250.00
Issued after 15 days for on-going failure to abate and the violation shall be
corrected within 15 days from citation.
Fourth penalty citation*                  $500.00
Issued after 15 days for on-going failure *per day for each day the nuisance
to abate.                                 continues
 
      (2)   Any person violating this article shall be issued a warning
citation and in accordance with this section. Any citation of a violation may
be issued by any police officer, town manager, building inspection officer,
code enforcement officer or such other office as is charged from time to time
by the board of commissioners with the enforcement of this article. However,
the town manager or his or her designee in his or her sole discretion may:
         (a)   Reduce a civil penalty assessed based upon the totality of the
circumstances; or
         (b)   Withhold issuance of a civil penalty citation in the event a
property owner has commenced in good faith to abate the nuisance but the
abatement has not been completed at the expiration of the initial 10-day
warning period.
   (B)   Each day's continuing violation after the deadline set forth in the
third civil penalty citation notice shall be a separate and distinct offense
for purposes of the penalties and remedies set forth herein.
(Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.077 APPEAL.
   With respect to any nuisance for which a notice of violation or warning
citation notice was given, the owner, occupant or person in possession of the
premises has a right to appeal to the board of commissioners. Such appeal shall
be made in writing, on a form provided by the Town of Cramerton entitled
"Application for an Appeal," specifying the grounds thereof and accompanied by
a filing fee set by the board of commissioners. The appeal shall be filed with
the code enforcement officer no later than 10 calendar days after the date of
the notice of violation or warning citation. The appeal shall be heard at the
next regularly scheduled meeting of the board of commissioners, and except in
cases of imminent danger or circumstances that pose a substantial threat to the
health and safety of citizens, further proceedings to abate the nuisance or
issue a civil penalty shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022)
§ 92.078 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
   When an automotive, boat or trailer-type vehicle has been found to be in
violation and has been removed by the town under this chapter, then either of
the following may occur:
   (A)   If the vehicle has been removed by a private towing operator acting as
agent of the town the vehicle may be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of G.S. Ch. 44A, Art 1.
   (B)   The town may sell the vehicle as a junked automotive, boat or trailer-
type vehicle in accordance with the provisions of §
92.055.
(‘87 Code, § 11-49) (Am. Ord. passed 7-7-97; Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A civil penalty of $25 for the first violation shall be assessed. A
second violation of this chapter shall result in a $50 civil penalty, and a
third and all subsequent violations shall result in a civil penalty of $100 per
violation.
   (B)   The town, at its discretion, may charge a violator with a misdemeanor
and the violator shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 and/or 30 days in
jail pursuant to G.S. § 14-4.
   (C)   The Town Manager, or his or her designee, shall be authorized to issue
to persons violating the terms of this chapter a civil citation in the amounts
shown in division (A) above. Any person to whom a citation has been issued may
appeal to the Town Manager, whose decision shall be final. Civil penalties
shall be paid within ten business days of the issuance, unless appealed.
Failure to appeal in ten business days shall result in an additional late
penalty of $25. Penalties shall be collected in the form of a debt.
(‘87 Code, § 11-53) (Am. Res. 2018-04, passed 5-17-18; Ord. passed 1-10-2022;
Ord. passed 3-19-2024)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
   
93.01   Interference with firefighters; false alarms
   
93.02   Interference with Fire Department vehicle
   
93.03   Congregating at fires
   
93.04   Obstructing or tampering with fire hydrants
   
93.05   Open burning
   
93.06   Metal containers required for gasoline or kerosene
   
93.07   Inspection and testing of equipment and appliances
   
93.08   Grilling
   
93.09   Knox Box required
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS; FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   As provided in G.S. § 58-82-1, no person may willfully interfere in
any manner with firefighters engaged in the performance of their duties.
   (B)   As provided in G.S. § 14-286, no person may wantonly and willfully
give a false alarm or damage fire alarm, detection or extinguishing equipment.
§ 93.02 INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person other than a member of the Fire Department may mount or ride
upon any fire engine or apparatus before it leaves the station or while on its
way to or from a fire or at any other time, except by permission of the Fire
Chief.
   (B)   No person may impede the movement of any Fire Department vehicle
answering a fire call or other emergency by getting in the way of riding or
driving in front of or close to the sides of the vehicle.
§ 93.03 CONGREGATING AT FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to congregate on the streets, sidewalks or
other areas adjacent to a fire so as to interfere with the operations of
members of the Fire Department.
§ 93.04 OBSTRUCTING OR TAMPERING WITH FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person may obstruct with building material or otherwise any fire
hydrant in a manner as to interfere with or obstruct the easy approach to or
the convenient use of the same by the Fire Department; however, this section
shall not apply to the closing of a street by order of the Town Manager or to
material necessarily placed in the street or work done therein by the town or
its contractor for the purpose of paving or repairing it.
   (B)   No person, except a town employee engaged in the official performance
of his or her duties or a person expressly authorized to do so by the Town
Manager or his or her designated representative, may open, draw water or
otherwise tamper with any public fire hydrant.
§ 93.05 OPEN BURNING.
   No person may burn or cause to be burned any material outside of a building
within the corporate town limits, subject to the following exceptions:
   (A)   A town employee in the lawful performance of his or her duties; and/or
   (B)   Small fires of wood, charcoal or artificial logs kindled in a
commercially manufactured cooking or campfire pit, exterior fireplace or
contained fire device, cooking device, grill or other similar outdoor eating or
cooking device, when used for cooking, entertainment or outdoor enjoyment and
when:
      (1)   Used on their own real property;
      (2)   Placed on a non-combustible surface, including fire retardant
shields, carts and stands when in use;
      (3)   Not used in a covered, unventilated or confined space;
      (4)   Continuously attended by a person at least 16 years of age when in
use;
      (5)   Placed a minimum of five feet from any combustible material when in
use; or
      (6)   Not used to burn paper, leaves or any noxious materials.
§ 93.06 METAL CONTAINERS REQUIRED FOR GASOLINE OR KEROSENE.
   No person may sell, place, dispense, keep in his or her possession or store
on his or her premises any kerosene or gasoline, except in proper metal
containers.
§ 93.07 INSPECTION AND TESTING OF EQUIPMENT AND APPLIANCES.
   (A)   The Fire Prevention Division of the town’s Fire Department shall have
the authority to require any means of testing it deems reasonable necessary to
ascertain the safety of the installation of equipment or appliances. It the
test indicates a dangerous condition. The service shall be discontinued until
the hazard is removed.
   (B)   To the full extent permitted by law, any authorized fire official
engaged in fire prevention and inspection work is authorized at all reasonable
times to enter and examine any building, vehicle or premises for the purpose of
making fire safety inspections. Before entering a private building or dwelling,
the fire official shall obtain the consent of the occupant thereof or obtain an
administrative inspection warrant authorizing his or her entry for the purpose
of inspection. The fire official may enter without a warrant when he or she has
probable cause to believe that circumstances exist in the building or on the
premises which reasonably may constitute immediate and substantial danger to
life or property.
§ 93.08 GRILLING.
   (A)   Open-flame cooking devices. Charcoal burners and other open-flame
producing devices shall not be operated on combustible balconies or within ten
feet of combustible construction, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings;
      (2)   Where buildings, balconies and decks are protected by an automatic
sprinkler system; or
      (3)   Town-homes where there are set property lines with land ownership.
   (B)   Liquefied-petroleum (LP) gas fueled cooking devices. LP-gas burners
having an LP-gas container with water capacity greater than two and one-half
pounds shall not be located on combustible balconies or within ten feet of
combustible construction, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings; or
      (2)   Town-homes where there are set property lines with land ownership.
§ 93.09 KNOX BOX REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any commercial building or gated community within the town limits and
meeting the criteria below shall be required to install, in an approved
location, a Knox Box (or Knox Switch as appropriate) for rapid entry by the
town’s Fire Department:
      (1)   High-rise buildings of seven stories or greater;
      (2)   Gated communities without 24-hour gate staff;
      (3)   Buildings that use, store, manufacture or process hazardous
materials under Title III of the Federal Super Fund Amendments;
      (4)   Buildings equipped with a monitored fire alarm or sprinkler system;
      (5)   Buildings with elevators; and
      (6)   Other buildings that could create any unreasonable delays for fire
personnel access, as determined by the town’s Fire Department.
   (B)   The requirements of division (A) above shall immediately apply to all
new construction. Existing buildings that meet the criteria outlined in
division (A) above shall have 12 months from passage of this section to comply
with its requirements.
   (C)   The Knox Box model and placement of the Knox Box must be approved by
the town’s Fire Department.
   (D)   Building entry keys must be kept current and are required to be placed
in the Knox Box as follows:
      (1)   One-story building: one key set;
      (2)   Two to three stories: two key sets;
      (3)   Four to six stories: three key sets; and
      (4)   High-rise buildings: five key sets.
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
Class 3 misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 as provided by
G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Administrator
   
94.02   Damaging street surfaces, street signs and other facilities
   
94.03   House and building numbers
   
94.04   Closing of streets being constructed or repaired
   
94.05   Trees, shrubs and plantings in public rights-of-way
   
94.06   Removal or alteration of railroad tracks
   
94.07   Maintenance of railroad crossings
Obstructions
   
94.20   Obstructions prohibited; exception for sidewalk sale and basketball
goal
   
94.21   Overhanging or protruding trees, shrubs, fences and the like
   
94.22   Drainage-related interference with sidewalks
   
94.23   Warning required for obstruction
   
94.24   Special cleaning or repairs; requirements
   
94.25   Obstructions to vision at street intersections
Curbs, Streets, Driveways and Excavations
   
94.40   Curbing installation, sidewalk or street paving
   
94.41   Driveways
   
94.42   Excavations
   
94.43   Town indemnified
   
94.44   Insurance requirements
Cross-reference:
   Community Beautification, see
Ch. 92
   Stormwater, see
Ch. 155
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 153
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ADMINISTRATOR.
   As used in this chapter, the term “Administrator” refers to the Public Works
Director or any other person designated by the Town Manager to perform the
responsibilities assigned to the Administrator by this chapter.
§ 94.02 DAMAGING STREET SURFACES, STREET SIGNS AND OTHER FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may intentionally mutilate, deface, remove, damage or in any
manner interfere with any of the street name signs, traffic-control signs and
devices and other signs erected by any public body, including any public
utility.
   (B)   No person may intentionally drag, run or cause to be dragged or run
upon any public street any implement, machine or tool likely to injure or cut
the surface of the street.
   (C)   No person may intentionally damage, injure, obstruct or otherwise
interfere with any street, sidewalk, bridge, culvert, ditch or drain owned or
maintained by the town.
§ 94.03 HOUSE AND BUILDING NUMBERS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of every house and every principal building shall
display or cause to be displayed on the front thereof, or on the grounds in a
position easily observed from the street, and using numbers at least three
inches in height, the number assigned to his or her house or building by the
post office.
      (2)   With respect to new construction, the number shall be displayed
within 30 days of initial occupancy.
      (3)   With respect to other buildings or dwellings, the number shall be
displayed within 30 days after receipt of written notice from the Administrator
to display the number.
   (B)   No person may display or cause to be displayed on any house or
building any number other than the number assigned by the post office.
   (C)   No person may remove, obliterate or destroy any number displayed in
accordance with division (A) above.
§ 94.04 CLOSING OF STREETS BEING CONSTRUCTED OR REPAIRED.
   (A)   If the Administrator determines that it is necessary to close any
street or any portion of a street to permit construction, repair or maintenance
work thereon, the Administrator may close or cause to be closed the whole or
any portion of the street in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   While any street or portion thereof is closed, or while any street or
portion thereof is in the process of being constructed, repaired or maintained,
the Administrator or any contractor acting under authority from the town may
erect or cause to be erected suitable barriers or obstructions thereon, may
post or cause to be posted conspicuous notice to the effect that the street or
portion thereof is closed, may place warning signs and lights on the streets
and may cause authorized personnel to direct traffic around or off of the
street.
   (C)   When the street or portion thereof is closed to the public or in the
process of construction, maintenance or repair as provided herein, no person
may do any of the following:
      (1)   Drive, or cause to be driven, any motor vehicle or other vehicle
into, over or on any street or portion thereof on which construction, repair
and maintenance work is being done or which is so closed;
      (2)   Break down, remove, injure or destroy any barrier or barriers or
obstructions on the street or portion thereof closed or being constructed,
repaired or maintained;
      (3)   Tear down, remove or destroy any notice or extinguish, remove,
injure or destroy any warning lights so erected, posted or placed on the street
or portion thereof; and/or
      (4)   Fail to observe the direction of any authorized employee or
personnel around or off of the street or portion thereof being constructed,
repaired or maintained.
§ 94.05 TREES, SHRUBS AND PLANTINGS IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   No person other than an employee or contractor of the town may plant
or maintain any tree or shrubbery whatsoever in or on any portion of any public
right-of-way (including, but not limited to, boulevard strips and those utility
areas or strips between a public sidewalk and an improved public street),
except pursuant to and in accordance with an encroachment agreement executed by
the town. An encroachment agreement shall not be executed unless the
Administrator determines that the planting will in no way interfere with
traffic or utility lines.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in §
94.21, no person may cut, mar or otherwise injure any shade tree, shrub or
other planting located on any public right-of-way or other public property.
§ 94.06 REMOVAL OR ALTERATION OF RAILROAD TRACKS.
   (A)   No person may alter, make additions to or remove any railroad tracks
now laid within the town except pursuant to and in accordance with a permit
issued by the Administrator.
   (B)   The person seeking the permit specified in division (A) above shall
submit to the Administrator sufficient plans and specifications to enable the
Administrator to determine whether the permit shall be issued.
   (C)   The Administrator shall issue the permit requested under this section
unless he or she finds that the proposed alterations, additions or removals
cannot be accomplished without undue damage to public property or danger to the
public health or safety. The Administrator may attach reasonable conditions to
the issuance of the permit.
§ 94.07 MAINTENANCE OF RAILROAD CROSSINGS.
   All railroads operating within the town shall at all times maintain and keep
all railroad street crossings and railroad rights-of-way in proper repair in
accordance with specifications furnished by the Administrator.
   (A)   All rights-of-way should be kept in clean and sightly conditions.
   (B)   All crossings shall be maintained so that the top of the tracks at the
crossing conforms to the street grade line.
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 94.20 OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION FOR SIDEWALK SALE AND BASKETBALL
GOAL.
   (A)    Except as otherwise allowed under this section or as authorized by
statute or ordinance  (including §§
94.41 and
94.42 of this chapter), and except to the extent required by the performance of
some function authorized or mandated by a statute or ordinance, no person may
obstruct or impede travel in the public streets or sidewalks within the town by
placing or leaving any object within the traveled portion of the public right-
of-way.
   (B)   Except as provided in this division (B), division (A) above applies,
but is not limited to goods, wares or merchandise displayed for sale. Partial
obstruction of a public sidewalk for a sidewalk sale is permissible in
accordance with a permit issued by the Administrator upon a finding the
following:
      (1)   The sale will not extend for more than three consecutive days;
      (2)   The obstruction will take place only during daylight hours;
      (3)   The permit, together with any other permits issued to the same
applicant or to other applicants for sale at the same location, will not
authorize an obstruction for more than ten days during any 365-day period; and
      (4)   The sidewalk will only be partially obstructed in a manner that
does not seriously inconvenience the public or threaten the public safety.
   (C)   If a permit is issued pursuant to division (B) above, no person may
cause, suffer or permit the operation of a sidewalk sale in violation of the
conditions set forth in divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above or any other
conditions attached to the permit.
   (D)   The Town Clerk shall charge and collect a fee identified on the town’s
fee schedule for a permit for each sidewalk or yard sale.
   (E)   Division (A) above shall not apply to temporary obstructions caused by
persons engaged in construction work on abutting property when proper warning
devices are maintained in accordance with §
94.23 of this chapter.
   (F)   Basketball goals (“goals”) may be allowed over the traveled portion of
a public right-of-way in accordance with the following restrictions:
      (1)   The goals must be located on a residential street with a speed
limit of 20 miles per hour or under.
      (2)   The goal must be located adjacent to the residential property of
the owner of the goal.
      (3)   The goal base structure must be placed off the pavement and curb
and clear of utility boxes, light poles, sidewalks or any other permanent
structure.
      (4)   The goal must be removable and not a permanent structure.
      (5)   The goal must be in clear sight with no obstructions preventing
drivers from identifying the goal from a safe distance away.
      (6)   The goal must in no way interfere with uses allowed in the public
right of way including but not limited to: travel, parking, mail delivery,
trash collection, yard waste collection, public storm water systems, or access
to public utilities nor may the goal block a public sidewalk or driveway.
      (7)   The goal must be kept in clean, safe and good working condition,
with intact nets.
      (8)   If, at any time the goal is determined to be a health or safety
risk or a nuisance to the community for any reason, the goal must be removed.
(Ord. passed 4-2-2024)
§ 94.21 OVERHANGING OR PROTRUDING TREES, SHRUBS, FENCES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person may cause or allow (from property under his or her control)
any tree limb, bush, shrub or other growth or any trellis, fence, awning or
other obstruction to overhang a public street at a distance of less than 20
feet above the traveled portion of the street or public sidewalk at a distance
of less than seven feet above the sidewalk.
   (B)   No person may cause or allow grass, vines, weeds or other vegetation
to grow from property under his or her control over, onto or across any public
street or sidewalk.
   (C)   Any violation of divisions (A) or (B) above is declared to be a public
nuisance and, if not corrected by the responsible person within three days
after being notified of the violation by the Code Enforcement Officer, the town
may summarily abate the nuisance.
   (D)   The actual cost incurred by the town in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance pursuant to this section shall be charged to the
owner of the offending property, and the owner shall pay these charges within
30 days after receiving from the town a statement of charges under this
division (D), the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where
the public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided
in G.S. § 160A-193.
§ 94.22 DRAINAGE-RELATED INTERFERENCE WITH SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person may cause or permit gutters, ditches, ducts or drain pipes
to be constructed or placed on property under his or her control in a manner
that the water from the gutters, ditches, ducts or drain pipes empties onto or
runs across a public sidewalk.
   (B)   Subject to the next sentence, all owners of property abutting
concrete, brick or other permanently improved public sidewalks shall grade the
property or construct a retaining wall in a manner as to prevent the washing of
dirt, grass, gravel or other material upon the town sidewalks. If the town
constructs a sidewalk, it shall be responsible initially for taking the
necessary steps to prevent the washing of the materials upon the sidewalk.
§ 94.23 WARNING REQUIRED FOR OBSTRUCTION.
   (A)   All persons engaged in doing work that creates any dangerous condition
or obstruction in the public right-of-way of any street or sidewalk shall take
whatever action is necessary, including the placement of barricades and warning
signs or devices, to warn the traveling public of the condition or obstruction.
   (B)   No person may remove, destroy, injure or tamper with any barricade,
sign, lantern, torch or other device placed in any street or sidewalk to warn
or give notice to the traveling public of any dangerous condition or
obstruction.
§ 94.24 SPECIAL CLEANING OR REPAIRS; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person may cause, suffer or permit any condition to be created in
or upon any public street, sidewalk or storm drain that necessitates the
special cleaning or repair of the street, sidewalk or storm drain. Without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the following are specifically
prohibited:
      (1)   The hauling of dirt, debris, materials removed from the sites of
construction or reconstruction of buildings or structures or waste materials of
any kind, in a manner that any portion of the dirt, debris or materials is
spilled, lost, dropped or left upon the streets or sidewalks;
      (2)   The depositing or leaving upon the streets or sidewalks of mud,
dirt or any other material as a result of the use of trucks, construction
equipment or machinery, regardless of whether the materials are spilled, lost
or dropped in transit or are deposited upon the surface of the street or public
property by the tires or wheels of the trucks, construction equipment or
machinery;
      (3)   The grading of lots, lands or driveways at elevations higher than
the street or sidewalk level or any other acts, neglects or conditions created
or allowed to exist upon the lots, lands or driveways which result in mud,
dirt, soil, gravel, debris or any other material being washed or otherwise
deposited upon a public street or sidewalk or into a public storm drainage
system;
      (4)   The throwing or depositing in or upon any street, sidewalk or storm
drain of any glass bottle, tacks, nails, wire, cans or any other substance
likely to injure or damage any person, animal or vehicle; and/or
      (5)   The depositing of grass clippings and leaves in the street or on
the curb.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the following conditions apply:
      (1)   Special cleaning or repair of streets, sidewalks or storm drains is
necessitated when the condition of the streets, sidewalks or storm drains is
such that their use by the public is threatened, limited or impaired, the use
and enjoyment of property abutting the streets, sidewalks or storm drains is
diminished or limited or substantial damage is caused to the streets, sidewalks
or storm drains or abutting property; and
      (2)   Special cleaning or repair includes but is not limited to sweeping,
flushing, removal of mud or debris, resurfacing, restoration of gravel and base
or any other extraordinary maintenance measures that are required to restore
the street, sidewalk or storm drain to the condition that existed prior to the
occurrence of the prohibited act.
   (C)   If the Administrator determines that, as a result of violation of
division (A) above conditions exist that require special cleaning or repairs,
the Administrator shall notify any or all persons responsible under division
(A) above of the existence of the conditions and shall order prompt abatement
thereof.
   (D)   If any person, having been ordered to abate the condition requiring
special cleaning or repairs, fails, neglects or refuses to abate or remove the
condition within the time specified, the Administrator shall cause the
condition to be corrected or otherwise remedied by having employees of the town
accomplish the work requiring special cleaning or repairs. The costs incurred
by the town in accomplishing the special cleaning or repairs shall be billed by
the town to the persons responsible under division (A) above.
§ 94.25 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT STREET INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   No person may cause or allow any fence, shrubs, bushes or other
plantings on property owned by him or her or under his or her control to
substantially obstruct vision between a height of two feet and a height of ten
feet measured above the average elevation of the existing surfaces of the
intersecting streets at their centerlines within the area formed by joining
points on the property lines measured as follows.
      (1)   On property lines abutting streets 50 feet or less in right-of-way
width, the points on the property lines shall be 25 feet from the lot corner.
      (2)   On property lines abutting streets more than 50 feet in right-of-
way width, the points on the property lines shall be 40 feet from the lot
corner.
   (B)   The requirements of this section shall not be deemed to prohibit
obstructions caused by natural grade or by retaining walls.
CURBS, STREETS, DRIVEWAYS AND EXCAVATIONS
§ 94.40 CURBING INSTALLATION, SIDEWALK OR STREET PAVING.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person may install
any curbing or pave any sidewalk or street within the town without having
obtained a written permit from the Planning and Zoning Director.
   (B)   Before granting a permit pursuant to this section, the Planning and
Zoning Director shall determine that the installation and paving shall be made
in accordance with the town specifications.
§ 94.41 DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person may open,
construct, alter or relocate any driveway across any public sidewalk or into
any street, or cut any curb for such purpose without having obtained a written
permit from the Planning and Zoning Director.
   (B)   Any person who receives a permit under this section shall be
responsible for repairing any damage to the sidewalk or street (including curb
and gutter) caused by the driveway construction.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Director shall review the driveway
construction and design plans and shall issue the permit unless he or she finds
the driveway, if constructed as proposed, will substantially interfere with or
pose a danger to persons using the street or sidewalk intersected by the
driveway, or public facilities (including utility poles, traffic signal
standards and the like), or will fail to comply with the specifications of the
town or any of the provisions of this section.
   (D)   No driveway may be constructed closer than three feet to a fire
hydrant or catch basin or closer than 20 feet to the right-of-way line of a
street that intersects with the street the driveway opens onto.
   (E)   No driveway may be constructed closer than two and one-half feet to a
property line at the point where the property line intersects with the right-
of-way line of a street that the driveway opens onto.
   (F)   If the driveway crosses a drainage ditch on a lot that abuts a street
without curb or gutter, then piping of sufficient size and strength (as
approved by the Planning and Zoning Director) shall be installed beneath the
driveway surface so that the drainage capability of the drainage ditch is not
materially impaired.
   (G)   If the driveway crosses a drainage swale on a lot that abuts a street
without curb or gutter, the driveway may conform to the contours of the
drainage swale without compliance with division (F) above (Planning and Zoning
Director) so long as the drainage capability of the drainage swale is not
materially impaired.
   (H)   Any person paving a private driveway that intersects with or opens
onto a public street shall make the pavement of the driveway connect with and
conform to the street and sidewalk cross sections in accordance with the
specifications of the Planning and Zoning Director.
§ 94.42 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person may dig in or
excavate any street or sidewalk within the town without having obtained a
written permit from the Planning and Zoning Director.
   (B)   Any person who receives a permit in accordance with this section shall
be responsible for putting the street or sidewalk where any excavation is made
in as good condition as it was prior to the excavation.
   (C)   Before granting a permit pursuant to this section, the Planning and
Zoning Director shall determine that the applicant has made arrangements to
comply with division (B) above. The town may authorize the applicant to do the
necessary repair work or have it done, but in all cases repairs shall be made
in accordance with the town specifications and at the expense of the applicant.
   (D)   (1)   In the event that excavation repair work is performed by or
under the direction of the applicant, the person shall fill the excavation and
tamp the earth of the fill every six inches, to the surface of the street or
sidewalk.
      (2)   If the excavation or fill should thereafter sink or recess below
the surface of the street or sidewalk excavated, and the town should thereby be
required to perform additional repair work, the work shall be done at the
expense of and be charged to the applicant.
§ 94.43 TOWN INDEMNIFIED.
   Any person obtaining a permit authorized by §§
94.40,
94.41 and
94.42 of this chapter agrees as a condition of the permit to indemnify the town
for and hold the town harmless from any expense (including, but not limited to,
attorney’s fees, litigation costs and judgments) incurred as a result of claims
made for damages arising out of operation conducted by the permit recipient
pursuant to the permit.
§ 94.44 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning
Director may require that, before a permit is issued under §§
94.40,
94.41 and
94.42 of this chapter, the applicant or the person performing the work provide
proof that he or she has in effect with an insurance company licensed by the
Insurance Commissioner of the state public liability and property damage
insurance in amounts determined by the Planning and Zoning Director to be
adequate to provide reasonable protection to persons and property, given the
nature and location of the work proposed.
CHAPTER 95: NOISES
Section
   
95.01   Unreasonable noise prohibited
   
95.02   Particular noise specified
   
95.03   Permits for use of loudspeakers
   
95.04   Unmuffled compression brake
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 UNREASONABLE NOISE PROHIBITED.
   No person may authorize or cause to be emitted from any property or source
under his or her control any noise that is both of the following:
   (A)   Sufficiently loud to frighten or pose a danger to the health of or
seriously disturb any person who if the noise emanates from a source located on
private property, is located on other property; or if the noise emanates from a
street or other public property, is located on private property of the street
or other public property; and
   (B)   Louder, or of greater duration or otherwise more disturbing than is
reasonably necessary for the performance of some lawful public or private
function, enterprise, operation or activity.
§ 95.02 PARTICULAR NOISE SPECIFIED.
   Without limiting the generality of §
95.01 of this chapter, the following are specifically declared to be unlawful:
   (A)   The blowing of a horn on any motor vehicle, except when the horn is
used as a warning device;
   (B)   The operation of any motor vehicle or any engine without a muffler or
with a muffler that is so defective or so designed that the vehicle emits an
unusually loud noise;
   (C)   The operation of a motor vehicle so as to create unnecessary and
unusual noises through the screeching of tires or racing of engines;
   (D)   The operation of a motor vehicle that is so loaded or so out of repair
or that is operated in a manner as to create unnecessary or unusual grating,
grinding, rattling or backfiring or other noises;
   (E)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler,
except to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or to warn of a danger;
   (F)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air, unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
   (G)   The excavation, erection, demolition, alteration or repair of any
building in any area not zoned for industrial use at any time other than
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, except
in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety;
   (H)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, library, hospital or sanitarium or court while
the same is in session or any church during services;
   (I)   The creation of any loud and excessive noise in connection with the
loading and unloading of any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates or containers;
   (J)   The playing of any radios, television, tape recorder, phonograph or
similar electronic device or any musical instrument so as to disturb the
comfort, quiet or repose of persons in any place of residence or so as to
interfere substantially with the operations of any church, school, theater,
library or other similar place of assembly;
   (K)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other amplification instrument or
device for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation of noise to any
performance, show, sale, display, advertisement or merchandise or other
commercial venture; and
   (L)   The keeping of any animal or bird which causes frequent and long
continued noise which shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
neighborhood.
§ 95.03 PERMITS FOR USE OF LOUDSPEAKERS.
   (A)   The use of drums, loudspeakers, amplifiers or other instruments and
devices for advertising or any other purpose is permissible in accordance with
a permit issued by the Chief of Police upon finding the following:
      (1)   The proposed use will further some educational, religious or other
purpose advantageous to the public interest; and
      (2)   The interest furthered by the proposed use outweighs the public
interest involved in maintaining peace and quiet at the time and place
involved.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may impose reasonable and appropriate conditions
upon the permit as he or she may deem necessary to assure that the proposed use
will be consistent with the intent of this section.
   (C)   If the use of drums, loudspeakers, amplifiers or other instruments and
devices is approved pursuant to
Ch. 132 of the Town of Cramerton Code of Ordinances (Expressive Activities and
Special Event Permit) the permit required by this chapter is not needed.
§ 95.04 UNMUFFLED COMPRESSION BRAKE.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      UNMUFFLED ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKE. A motor vehicle brake which is
activated or worked by the compression of the engine of a motor vehicle, and
which is not effectively muffled to prevent excessive noise.
   (B)   Prohibition.
      (1)   No person shall use an engine braking system within the corporate
limits of the town which is any way activated or operated by the compression of
the engine of any such motor vehicle or any such unit or part thereof, except
in cases of emergency or necessary for the protection of persons and/or
property. Such braking is commonly referred to as compression braking or a
“jake brake”.
      (2)   The Town Manager will identify areas in which engine braking is
prohibited and signs shall be conspicuously posted in such areas stating:
“Unmuffled Engine Braking Prohibited”.
   (C)   Emergency vehicle exception. All emergency vehicles are exempt from
this section.
   (D)   Penalty. Violations of this section shall be penalized as set forth §
95.99.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 4-15-2025)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Where there is a violation of any section of this chapter, the town, at its
discretion, may take one or more of the following enforcement actions.
   (A)   The violator may be assessed a civil penalty for violations of this
chapter by the town.
      (1)   The violator shall be assessed a civil penalty of $100 for the
first violation.
      (2)   For the second violation within one year of the first violation a
civil penalty of $500 shall be assessed.
      (3)   For their third and subsequent violation(s) within one year of the
first violation a civil penalty of $1,000 shall be assessed.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, a civil penalty for a violation may
be assessed each calendar day.
   (B)   The violator of this chapter may be charged with a Class 3 misdemeanor
and be subject to a maximum fine not to exceed $500 as stated in G.S. §§ 14-
4 and 160A-175.
   (C)   A civil action seeking an injunction and order of abatement may be
directed toward any person creating or allowing the creation of any unlawful
noise, including the owner or person otherwise having legal or actual control
of the premises from which it emanates.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   RESERVED
      
112.   SOLICITATION
      
113.   RESERVED
      
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
115.   MOTORIZED VENDORS OF ICE CREAM PRODUCTS
      
116.   STREET VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Operation of public enterprises without franchise
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 OPERATION OF PUBLIC ENTERPRISES WITHOUT FRANCHISE.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person may operate within the town
any public enterprise, as defined in G.S. § 160A-311, without first obtaining a
franchise from the town, nor may any person continue to operate the public
franchise after the expiration of the franchise.
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
civil penalties pursuant to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 111: RESERVED
CHAPTER 112: SOLICITATION
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Exemptions from provisions of this chapter
   
112.04   Permit required
   
112.05   Application for permit
   
112.06   False statements prohibited
   
112.07   Bond required
   
112.08   Investigation of applicant and applicant’s agent(s)
   
112.09   Approval or denial of permit; term; renewal
   
112.10   Revocation of permit
   
112.11   Appeal
   
112.12   Transferability; duplicates of permits
   
112.13   Not to be represented as endorsement by town
   
112.14   Street solicitation prohibited
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit solicitation at residences during
the times when such activity is most intrusive and disruptive to citizens’
privacy; to regulate the locations in which solicitation activity may occur to
promote safety and minimize congestion; to regulate the manner in which any
solicitation activity may occur to promote good order, protect citizens from
aggressive and intimidating practices; and to require solicitors to obtain a
permit from the town to aid in crime detection and deter deceptive practices
and fraud.
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The person assigned to administer the code of ordinances for
the town.
   AGENT(S). Any person carrying on the business for which a permit is sought
or issued.
   APPLICANT. The person applying for a permit.
   BOARD. The Board of Commissioners for the Town of Cramerton.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Cramerton Police Department or his or her
designee.
   PERMIT. A certificate signed by the Chief of Police and issued to any person
giving notice that the person has complied with the permitting provisions of
this chapter.
   PERMITTEE. The person to whom a permit is issued.
   PERSON. Any individual, promoter, agent, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, joint venture, limited liability company or combination of
individuals.
   PROMOTER. Any person who promotes, manages, supervises, organizes or
attempts to promote, manage, supervise or organize a campaign of solicitation.
   SOLICIT.
      (1)   The request directly or indirectly of money, credit, property,
financial assistance or other thing of value on the plea or representation that
such money, credit, property, financial assistance or other thing of value will
be used for a charitable, patriotic, educational or philanthropic purpose, in
any office or business building, by house-to-house canvass or in any other
public or private place by telephone, personal interview, mail or otherwise.
      (2)   The words SOLICIT and SOLICITATION shall also mean and include the
sale or offer to sell any service, article, tag, ticket, emblem, publication,
insurance, advertisement, subscription or other thing, whether of value or not.
   SOLICITATION. See SOLICIT.
   TOWN. The Town of Cramerton.
§ 112.03 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS OF THIS CHAPTER.
   The following solicitations shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter: bona fide charitable, educational, religious organizations and other
non-profit organizations with eleemosynary purposes; except that, §
112.14 of this chapter shall apply to all solicitation without regard to
purpose.
§ 112.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, not exempted by §
112.03 of this chapter, to engage in solicitation within the corporate limits
of the town, either directly or through an agent, without first obtaining a
permit to do so from the Chief of Police.
§ 112.05 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a permit required by this chapter shall be filed
with the town a minimum of 30 days prior to the desired solicitation start
date.
   (B)   The application shall be made in writing on a form furnished by the
town and shall include:
      (1)   The full and legal name of the applicant, contact information of
the applicant and a photocopy of a government issued picture identification of
the applicant;
      (2)   The name of any business(es) represented by the applicant and the
business(es) address(es) as well as the name of the business(es) principal
officers and all promoters connected or to be connected with the proposed
solicitation;
      (3)   The purposes for which such solicitation is to be made and the use
or disposition to be made of any receipts there from. This shall include copies
of any and all catalogs, sales brochures, order forms and any other literature
designed to be given to prospective clients;
      (4)   The names, addresses and photocopies of a government issued picture
identification of any and all of the applicant’s agents who will be conducting
solicitations;
      (5)   An outline of the method to be used in conducting the
solicitations;
      (6)   The days and hours when such solicitations shall be made, including
the proposed dates for the beginning and ending of such solicitations.
Solicitations are not allowed after dusk and before dawn;
      (7)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the town, the governing
body of the town or any officer or employee thereof; and
      (8)   Such other information as may be reasonably required by the Chief
of Police for the public interest, safety or for the protection and safety of
potential clients and person(s) conducting the solicitation.
   (C)   At the time an application is submitted to the town, the applicant
shall pay a non-refundable fee of $15 to defray the cost of processing the
application. If a permit is issued, the applicant shall pay an additional fee
of $1 for each duplicate of the permit that is required pursuant to this
chapter.
   (D)   The permit application and any other documentation required to
accompany the permit application shall not be subject to public inspection;
however, any issued permit shall be considered a public record.
§ 112.06 FALSE STATEMENTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to knowingly file or
cause to be filed an application containing one or more false statements.
§ 112.07 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before any permit is issued under this chapter, the applicant must file with
the Town Clerk, a bond executed in favor of the town by a corporate surety
licensed under the laws of the state to execute bonds, in an amount no less
than $2,000, conditioned that the applicant will, for a period of 12 months,
refund all money paid by a purchaser of goods or services if the goods or
services are not delivered or provided in accordance with the terms of the
contract of purchase, whether the contract be oral or written; and refund all
money paid by a purchaser if the goods or services purchased are not of the
kind and quality promised by the person in the contract of purchase, whether
the contract be oral or written.
§ 112.08 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT AND APPLICANT’S AGENT(S).
   (A)   Upon submitting an application for a permit, an applicant must agree
to allow the Chief of Police to conduct an investigation into the applicant’s
character and business responsibility.
   (B)   Each agent of the applicant must agree to allow the Chief of Police to
conduct an investigation into the applicant’s character and business
responsibility.
§ 112.09 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF PERMIT; TERM; RENEWAL.
   (A)   When an application for a permit is filed, the applicant is
authorizing the Chief of Police to make any such investigation as he or she
deems necessary to ascertain whether the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with. The Chief of Police shall notify the applicant of the decision
to approve or deny the permit.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police determines that the application is accurate,
complete, in compliance and the applicant’s character and business
responsibility are consistent with the requirements of this chapter, a
solicitation permit will be issued.
   (C)   If the Chief of Police determines that the application should be
denied, he or she shall notify the applicant in writing of the decision. The
notification shall state the reason(s) for denial and shall inform the
applicant of the right of appeal as set forth in this chapter. An application
shall be denied for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The application is incomplete;
      (2)   The application fee has not been paid;
      (3)   The application contains false statement(s);
      (4)   There is reasonable justification to believe that the money or
other items being solicited will not be applied for the purpose(s) stated in
the application;
      (5)   The applicant, promoter or any of their agents are registered
sexual offenders or have been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude,
robbery, breaking and entering, fraud or any crime arising or resulting from or
otherwise connected to solicitation activities, within the three-year period
immediately preceding the application date; and/or
      (6)   The applicant, promoter or any of his, her or their agents have
failed to fully comply with any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   If the permit is approved, it shall state the expiration date of the
permit in accordance with the time period requested on the application,
provided such duration does not exceed 90 days. However, upon written request
from the original applicant, the Chief of Police may extend the duration of the
permit one time only for an additional period not exceeding 90 days for good
cause shown and after receiving a verified statement from the original
applicant that there has been no change (including additions or deletions) to
the information provided in the original application. If the permit extension
is granted, the applicant shall pay a further fee of $10 to defray the cost of
processing the renewal. An additional fee of $1 shall be required for renewal
of each duplicate permit required by this chapter.
§ 112.10 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may revoke a permit for any of the reasons
sufficient for denying an application for a permit, pursuant to §
112.09(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer, with competent jurisdiction, may
temporarily revoke a permit upon reasonable suspicion that the permittee,
promoter or any of their agents have violated any of the provisions of this
chapter and/or have violated state law or any other local ordinance while
conducting solicitation activities pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Upon revocation, the Chief of Police shall notify the permittee in
writing of the decision to revoke the issued permit. The notification shall
state the reason(s) for revocation and shall inform the person of the right of
appeal as set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Revocation of a permit shall become effective immediately upon receipt
of notification; except that, revocation pursuant to division (B) above shall
become effective immediately upon verbal notification by said law enforcement
officer. If an appeal is requested, no person shall conduct solicitations
pending determination of the appeal.
   (E)   The Chief of Police may reinstate a revoked permit if the reason(s)
for revocation is/are corrected to his or her reasonable satisfaction.
§ 112.11 APPEAL.
   (A)   Within five days from any notice of revocation of an existing permit
or denial of a permit, the permittee or applicant may appeal by submitting a
written request to the Administrator for a hearing. The Administrator shall
hear an appeal at the earliest time practicable. Due notice of the date and
time of the hearing shall be given to the appellant.
   (B)   The Administrator may reverse or affirm the order or decision of the
Chief of Police. The decision of the Administrator shall become final.
§ 112.12 TRANSFERABILITY; DUPLICATES OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Any permit approved and issued under this chapter shall be
nontransferable; provided, however, this shall not prevent any person obtaining
a permit from using any number of agents as shall be reported to and approved
by the Chief of Police in the application process; provided further, the person
shall be required to provide each such agent(s), making solicitations, with a
certified duplicate of the permit, which shall be carried by such agent(s) at
all times during which solicitations are being made.
   (B)   For purposes of division (A) above, a CERTIFIED DUPLICATE shall be
defined as a photocopy of the permit which also has on its face an original
signature of the Chief of Police and an original imprint of the town seal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person(s), promoter(s) or agent(s) to
solicit without having in his or her immediate possession a permit to solicit
or a certified duplicate thereof, plus a valid form of identification, or to
refuse to show such permit, certified duplicate or identification to a law
enforcement officer, with competent jurisdiction, when requested to do so by
such officer.
§ 112.13 NOT TO BE REPRESENTED AS ENDORSEMENT BY TOWN.
   It shall be unlawful for any permittee, promoter or his, her or their agent
(s) to advertise, represent or hold out in any manner that the permit required
by this chapter is an endorsement of the holder thereof by the town; provided,
it shall be lawful for a permittee to use, advertise or hold out the fact of
his or her permit in the following words and no others: “Town of Cramerton
Solicitations Permit No.       ,” including in the blank space the issued
serial number of the permit.
§ 112.14 STREET SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand upon, adjacent to or enter into
any highway or public street for the purpose of soliciting employment, to sell
any service, article, tag, ticket, emblem, publication, insurance,
advertisement, subscription or other thing, whether of value or not, and/or to
request or collect contributions from the occupant of any vehicle or any
pedestrian.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of no more than $500 or as provided in G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 113: RESERVED
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Purpose and authority
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Classifications
   
114.04   License required
   
114.05   Issuance of license
   
114.06   Annual license fee
   
114.07   Inspection
   
114.08   Notices
   
114.09   Computation of time
   
114.10   Notice of violation and suspension of license
   
114.11   Revocation of license
   
114.12   Appeal of denial, suspension or revocation
   
114.13   Prohibition regarding transfer of the license
   
114.14   Expiration of the license
   
114.15   Prohibitions regarding minors and sexually oriented businesses
   
114.16   Regulations pertaining to adult live entertainment businesses
   
114.17   Regulations pertaining to adult mini motion picture theaters
   
114.18   Regulations pertaining to clothing modeling studios
   
114.19   Regulations governing existing sexually oriented businesses
Penalty
   
114.50   Criminal penalty
   
114.51   Civil injunction
   
114.52   Severability
Cross-reference:
   General Offenses, see
Ch. 130
   Operation and use of parks and trails, see
Ch. 131
   Solicitation, see
Ch. 112
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the town,
and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious
effects of sexually oriented businesses. The provisions of this chapter have
neither the purpose, nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content, of any communicative materials or other expressive activities,
including sexually oriented materials or activities. Similarly, it is not the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access
by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to in any
way condone or legitimize the distribution of obscene material or material
harmful to minors. The authority for this regulation is G.S. §§ 160A-174 and
160A-194.
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A retail establishment that has:
      (1)   As one of its principal business purposes the sale or rental of, or
a substantial or significant portion of its stock in trade for sale or rental:
         (a)   Multimedia which are distinguished or characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified anatomical
areas or specified sexual activities, as defined in this section; and/or
         (b)   Sexually oriented devices, as defined in this section; and/or
         (c)   As used in this definition, multimedia includes, by way of
illustration, books, magazines, other periodicals, movies, video tapes, CDs,
DVDs and other products offered in photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital
or other imaging medium.
      (2)   Any of the following shall be indicia that an establishment has as
one of its principal business purposes, the sale or rental of: publications
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas, as defined in this section; and/or sexually oriented devices, as defined
in this section:
         (a)   The business advertises the sale or rental of adult publications
and/or sexually oriented devices;
         (b)   Access by persons that are under 18 years of age to the business
establishment or portions of the business establishment is restricted;
         (c)   Signs or notices are posted outside and/or inside the business
establishment indicating that the material offered for sale or rental might be
offensive; or
         (d)   The building or portion of the building containing the business
establishment does not have windows or has windows that are screened or
otherwise obstructed or are situated in a manner that restricts visual access
from outside the building to materials displayed within for sale or rental.
      (3)   Such indicia shall be considered along with all other factors and
available information.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a general circulation video store
that does not offer for sale any sexually oriented devices shall not constitute
an ADULT BOOKSTORE even though it offers for sale and/or rental of multimedia
which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, as defined in this chapter, so long as:
         (a)   Such described multimedia are stocked and displayed in a room
separate from the area of the business establishment where general circulation
multimedia are stocked and displayed;
         (b)   Access by persons under 18 years of age to the room where such
described multimedia are stocked and displayed is restricted;
         (c)   The square footage of the separate room where such described
multimedia are stocked and displayed is no more than 10% of the square footage
of the area where general circulation multimedia are stocked and displayed; and
         (d)   The general circulation multimedia portion of the business
establishment offers a quantity and selection of new release general
circulation multimedia that is typical of a general circulation multimedia
store and offers a quantity and selection of other general circulation
multimedia that are organized and displayed in a manner that is typical of a
general circulation multimedia store.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINER. An employee who engages in or performs adult live
entertainment.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. Any performance of or involving the actual
presence of real people which exhibits specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined in this chapter.
   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any establishment or business which has
as one of its principal business purposes the presentation of adult live
entertainment for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE BOOTH. Any booth or partitioned area of less than
150 square feet in an adult mini motion picture theater that is designed to
hold patrons for the presentation and viewing of still or motion picture
multimedia that are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities, as defined in this chapter.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment with one or
more adult mini motion picture booths where:
      (1)   One of the principal business purposes is the presentation and
viewing of still or motion pictures in the viewing booths that are
distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, as defined in this chapter;
      (2)   A substantial or significant portion of the stock of still or
motion pictures available for viewing or that are actually viewed in the
viewing booths are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to specified anatomical areas or specified
sexual activities, as defined in this chapter;
      (3)   Any of the following shall be indicia that the business
establishment has as one of its principal business purposes, the presentation
and viewing in viewing booths still or motion pictures which are distinguished
or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in
this chapter:
         (a)   Restricted access to the business establishment or portions of
the business establishment where viewing booths are located by persons that are
under 18 years of age; and
         (b)   Posted signs or notices outside and/or inside the business
establishment indicating that the material offered for presentation and viewing
in the viewing booths might be offensive.
      (4)   Such indicia shall be considered along with all other factors and
available information.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment that regularly
presents motion pictures which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section, in an
area, whether enclosed or not, of 150 square feet or greater, for observation
by patrons therein.
   APPLICANT. The owner of a sexually oriented business.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of the Cramerton Police Department or his or her
designee.
   CLOTHING MODELING STUDIO. Any place where, for any form of consideration or
gratuity, a person agrees or offers to privately model clothing, including, but
not limited to, lingerie, for an individual patron.
   CODE ADMINISTRATOR. Person appointed by the Town Manager to serve as the
Administrator of the Code of Ordinances for the Town of Cramerton.
   CONVICTED. An adjudication of guilt and entry of judgment following a trial
or a plea of guilty or no contest in a criminal case arising under local, state
or federal law.
   EMPLOYEE. 
      (1)   Any person who performs any service or entertainment upon the
premises of a sexually oriented business whether or not the person is
denominated an employee, independent contractor, agent or otherwise and
regardless of whether or not the person is paid a salary, wage or other
compensation by the operator of the business.
      (2)   EMPLOYEE does not include a person exclusively on the premises for
any of the following:
         (a)   The repair or maintenance of the premises;
         (b)   The delivery of goods to the premises; or
         (c)   The delivery of services, such as legal, accounting, insurance
or other similar services provided to businesses generally.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   OPERATOR. Any person who is both present on and in charge of any sexually
oriented business and includes the following:
      (1)   The owner of a sole proprietorship;
      (2)   Each member of a firm, association or general partnership;
      (3)   Each general partner in a limited partnership; or
      (4)   Each officer, director and owner of 50% or more of the stock of a
corporation.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any adult book store, adult live entertainment
business, adult mini motion picture theater, adult motion picture theater or
clothing modeling studio, as defined in this section.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED CRIME. Any criminal offense under local, state or federal
law involving or related to rape, sex offense, sexual abuse of minors, crime
against nature, incest, prostitution, indecent exposure or this chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Without limitation, any artificial or simulated
specified anatomical area or other device or paraphernalia that is designed
principally for specified sexual activities, but shall not mean any
contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including human
masturbation, sexual intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts; or
      (4)   Excretory functions, as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   STRADDLE. The act of the straddling of the legs of one person over any part
of the body of any other person, regardless of whether there is a touch or
touching.
   TOUCH. To touch with a portion of the human body or with any object.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Cramerton or his or her
designee (who shall not be an employee of the town’s Police Department).
§ 114.03 CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult bookstores;
   (B)   Adult live entertainment businesses;
   (C)   Adult mini motion picture theaters;
   (D)   Adult motion picture theaters; and
   (E)   Clothing modeling studios.
§ 114.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted to operate without a
valid sexually oriented business license issued by the Chief of Police for the
particular classification of business. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate or cause to be operated a sexually oriented business without said
license, or without the presence of an operator who has been disclosed pursuant
to division (B)(9) below. In furtherance of the policy of the state, the Chief
of Police shall not issue licenses to two or more classifications of sexually
oriented businesses to operate in or on the same building, premises, structure
or other facility.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made by the owner of the business
on a form prescribed by the Chief of Police, and submitted to the Cramerton
Police Department. The completed application shall contain the following
information and shall be accompanied by the following documents:
      (1)   The full true name of the applicant;
      (2)   The full true name under which the sexually oriented business will
be operated and, if the business will be operated in a name other than that of
the applicant, a certified copy of the assumed name certificate prepared and
recorded in the County Register of Deeds Office pursuant to G.S. §§ 66-68 et
seq.;
      (3)   The type of sexually oriented business the applicant intends to
operate;
      (4)   Whether the applicant intends to serve alcoholic beverages at the
sexually oriented business and/or apply for an ABC permit;
      (5)   The address where the sexually oriented business is to be operated
and where the books and records are maintained;
      (6)   If the owner of the real property upon which the sexually oriented
business is to be operated is not the applicant, the name and address of the
owner of the real property upon which the business is to be operated and a copy
of the lease or rental agreement;
      (7)   The principal telephone number to be used by the sexually oriented
business;
      (8)   (a)   If the applicant is an individual, the applicant shall appear
in person and deliver a completed and signed application form and provide the
following information:
            1.   His or her present residence and business addresses and
telephone numbers;
            2.   A valid driver’s license or other government issued picture
identification; and
            3.   Social Security number.
         (b)   If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, the applicant
shall designate one of its general partners or officers to act as its agent.
Such person shall appear in person and deliver a completed and signed
application form and shall provide the following information:
            1.   His or her present residence and business addresses and
telephone numbers;
            2.   A valid driver’s license or other government issued picture
identification; and
            3.   Social Security number.
         (c)   If the applicant is a partnership:
            1.   The name, residence address and telephone number, and Social
Security number of each partner, including limited partners; and
            2.   A copy of the partnership agreement. If one or more the
partners are a corporation, the provisions of this division (B)(8) pertaining
to corporations shall apply.
         (d)   If the application is a corporation:
            1.   A certified copy of the articles of incorporation, a certified
copy of the certificate of authority and a certified copy of the most recent
annual report filed with the Secretary of State of North Carolina; and
            2.   The name, residence address and telephone number and Social
Security number of each of its current officers and directors, and of any
stockholder holding 50% or more of the stock of the corporation;
      (9)   The name, residence address and telephone number and Social
Security number of each individual who will be an operator of the business;
      (10)   A federal tax identification number assigned to the sexually
oriented business and a completed tax information authorization form (IRS Form
8821) authorizing only the verification of said number;
      (11)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The requirements of this
division (B)(11) shall not apply for renewal applications if the applicant
adopts a sketch or diagram that was previously submitted for the license sought
to be renewed and if the licensee certifies that the licensed premises has not
been altered since the immediately preceding issuance of the license and that
the previous sketch or diagram continues to accurately depict the layout of the
licensed premises;
      (12)   If the applicant wishes to operate an adult live entertainment
business or an adult mini motion picture theater, then said applicant shall
comply with the application requirements stated in §§
114.16 and
114.17 of this chapter; and
      (13)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   An applicant for a license under this section shall have a continuing
duty to promptly supplement applicant information required by this section in
the event that said information changes in any way from what is stated on the
application. The applicant shall supplement the application on file with the
town’s Police Department within 30 days from the date of such change.
   (D)   In the event that the town’s Police Department determines or learns at
any time that the applicant has improperly completed the application for a
proposed sexually oriented business, it shall promptly notify the applicant of
such fact and allow the applicant ten days to properly complete the
application. The time period for granting or denying a license shall be stayed
during the period in which the applicant is allowed an opportunity to properly
complete the application.
   (E)   The applicant shall be required to pay a non-refundable application
and investigation fee, the amount of which shall be established by the Town
Board.
   (F)   Issuance of a sexually oriented business license does not excuse a
licensee from compliance with any other applicable ordinance, regulation or
statute. By issuing a sexually oriented business license, the Chief of Police
has not determined that the recipient is in compliance with any applicable
local, state or federal regulation or law or that the recipient is otherwise
engaged in a legal activity or operating a business in a legal manner.
§ 114.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed application, the Chief of
Police will approve or deny the issuance of a license. Upon the expiration of
the thirtieth day, unless the applicant requests and is granted a reasonable
extension of time, the applicant shall be permitted to begin operating the
business for which the license is sought unless and until the Chief of Police
notifies the applicant of a denial of the application and states the reason(s)
for the denial.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall deny the application for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
114.04(B)(8) or (B)(9) of this chapter is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   The application and investigation fee has not been paid;
      (3)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
114.04(B)(8) or (B)(9) of this chapter has refused to allow an inspection of
the premises as authorized by §
114.07 of this chapter;
      (4)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
114.04(B)(8) or (B)(9) of this chapter has overdue licensee fees associated
with the operation of a sexually oriented business;
      (5)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
114.04(B)(8) or (B)(9) of this chapter has a licensee under this chapter which
is suspended or revoked;
      (6)   An applicant failed to provide the information necessary to
determine the qualifications of the applicant or any individual identified in
the application under §
114.04(B)(8) or (B)(9) of this chapter for issuance of the license, or provided
materially false or misleading information on the application form;
      (7)   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under
§
114.04(B)(8) or (B)(9) of this chapter has been convicted of any sexually
oriented crime and less than five years have elapsed since the latter of the
date of conviction or the date of release from confinement, if the conviction
is for a felony, or less than two years have elapsed since the latter of the
date of conviction or the date of release from confinement, if the conviction
is for a misdemeanor. The fact that the conviction is being appealed shall have
no effect on the denial of the license; or
      (8)   The application demonstrates or reveals information showing that
the proposed business fails to meet the requirement of this chapter.
   (C)   The license must be posted in the sexually oriented business in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the business so that it can be
read easily at any time by a patron or any other person visiting the business.
§ 114.06 ANNUAL LICENSE FEE.
   The licensee of a sexually oriented business license shall be required to
pay an annual license fee the amount of which shall be established by the Town
Board.
§ 114.07 INSPECTION.
   An applicant or any individual identified in the application under §
114.03(B)(8) or (B)(9) of this chapter shall permit representatives of the
town’s Police Department to inspect the premises for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with this chapter prior to the issuance of a license under this
chapter.
§ 114.08 NOTICES.
   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the Chief of Police or the
Town Manager under this chapter to any applicant, licensee, owner or operator
of a sexually oriented business may be given either by personal delivery or by
certified United States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the
most current address as specified in the application for the license or any
notice of change of address which has been received by the Chief of Police.
Notices mailed as above shall be deemed given upon their deposit in the United
States mail and shall be presumed to have been received on the third regular
postal delivery day thereafter.
§ 114.09 COMPUTATION OF TIME.
   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this chapter, the time within
which any act required by this chapter is to be done shall be computed by
excluding the first day and including the last day, unless the last day is a
Saturday, Sunday or a federal or state holiday, in which case it shall also be
excluded. If the day immediately following such Saturday, Sunday or holiday is
also a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, then such succeeding day shall also be
excluded.
§ 114.10 NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue a notice of violation if he or she
determines that a licensee, owner, operator or employee has violated or is not
in compliance with any section of this chapter. The notice shall specify the
section(s) of this chapter that have been violated.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall suspend a sexually oriented business license
for a period of 30 days if the violation has not been corrected or abated
within 20 days after the notice of violation has been received by the licensee,
owner or operator.
   (C)   A decision by the Chief of Police to suspend a license shall not
become final until 20 days after notice of the decision has been received by
the licensee, owner or operator.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business and said person knows or should know that the
business has a license which has been suspended.
§ 114.11 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a sexually oriented business license
if a suspension of the license becomes effective following a notice of
violation which was issued within 12 months of the effective date of a previous
suspension.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a sexually oriented business license
if he or she determines that:
      (1)   An applicant or licensee provided materially false or misleading
information in the material submitted in the applicant process;
      (2)   A licensee, owner or operator has knowingly allowed the possession,
use or sale of controlled substances in or on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee, owner, operator or employee has knowingly allowed the
solicitation for prostitution or crime against nature in or on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee, owner, operator or employee has knowingly allowed any
act of sexual intercourse, masturbation, oral copulation, sodomy or indecent
exposure to occur in or on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee, owner, operator or employee has served alcoholic
beverage(s) to a patron or patrons in or on the premises without the premises
having the proper ABC permit(s); and
      (6)   A licensee, owner or operator has been convicted of a sexually
oriented crime since the license was issued. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect on the revocation of the license.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, and with respect to adult live
entertainment licenses, the term EMPLOYEE shall not include an adult live
entertainer.
   (D)   A decision by the Chief of Police to revoke a license shall not become
final until 20 days after notice of the decision has been received by the
licensee, owner or operator.
   (E)   When the Chief of Police revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business and said person knows or should know that the
business has a license which has been revoked.
§ 114.12 APPEAL OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   After a denial of an application for a license, a denial of an
application for renewal of a license, or a suspension or revocation of a
license, the applicant or licensee may appeal the denial, suspension or
revocation in writing to the Code Administrator within 20 days after notice of
the denial, suspension or revocation has been received. The Code Administrator
shall hold a hearing on whether to issue/renew the license or uphold the
denial, suspension or revocation within five business days after the receipt of
the appeal. The applicant or licensee shall have the right to present evidence
at said hearing. The decision to issue/renew the license or uphold the denial,
suspension or revocation shall be based solely on the criteria set forth in
this chapter. The Code Administrator shall render a decision on the appeal
within ten business days after the date of the hearing.
   (B)   Upon receipt by the Code Administrator of a written appeal pursuant to
division (A) above, a denial of an application for renewal of the license or a
suspension or revocation of the license of any sexually oriented business shall
be stayed until a decision is rendered by the Code Administrator. In addition,
upon receipt by the Code Administrator of a written appeal pursuant to division
(A) above, the denial of an initial application for a license by any sexually
oriented business existing prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be
stayed until a decision is rendered by the Code Administrator.
   (C)   The decision of the Code Administrator is subject to review in the
Superior Court of the county by proceedings in the nature of certiorari. Any
petition for writ of certiorari for review shall be filed with the Clerk of
Superior Court within 30 days after notice of the decision has been received by
the applicant or licensee. A denial of an application for renewal of the
license or a suspension or revocation of the license of any sexually oriented
business shall be stayed until a decision is rendered by the Superior Court or
the time to petition the Superior Court for a writ of certiorari has expired.
The following provisions shall apply to any appeal to Superior Court from a
decision of the Code Administrator.
      (1)   Unless good cause exists to contest a petition for writ of
certiorari, the town shall stipulate to certiorari no later than five business
days after the petitioner requests such a stipulation.
      (2)   The town shall transmit the record to the court no later than 15
business days after receiving the order allowing certiorari.
   (D)   An appeal by an applicant or licensee from the Superior Court of the
county shall be governed by the state’s Rules of Appellate Procedure, but,
unless a court of competent jurisdiction otherwise provides, said appeal shall
not stay any action taken with regard to the license.
§ 114.13 PROHIBITION REGARDING TRANSFER OF THE LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer a license to another person or to another
premises. The transfer of a license shall automatically and immediately revoke
the license.
§ 114.14 EXPIRATION OF THE LICENSE.
   (A)   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance. In lieu
of completing a new application, an application renewal form can be used as
designated by the Chief of Police. Regardless of form, all of the requirements
of §
114.04 of this chapter and payment of the annual license fee, as required in §
114.06 of this chapter shall apply. In the event that an application renewal
form cannot sufficiently provide the information required in §
114.04 of this chapter, the Chief of Police can require that application be
made as provided in that section. Application for renewal shall be made at
least 30 days before the expiration date, and when made less than 30 days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the permit will not be affected.
   (B)   When the Chief of Police denies renewal of the license, the applicant
shall not be issued a license under this chapter for one year from the date of
denial. If subsequent to the denial, the Chief of Police determines that the
basis for the denial has been corrected, the applicant shall be granted a
license.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or cause to be operated
a sexually oriented business and said person knows or should know that the
business has a license which has expired.
§ 114.15 PROHIBITIONS REGARDING MINORS AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee, owner, operator or employee of a
sexually oriented business, regardless of whether or not a license has been
issued for said business under this chapter, to knowingly, or with reasonable
cause to know, permit or allow:
   (A)   Admittance of a person who is under 18 years of age to the business
premises;
   (B)   A person who is under 18 years of age to remain at the business
premises;
   (C)   A person who is under 18 years of age to purchase goods or services at
the business premises; and/or
   (D)   A person who is under 18 years of age to work at the business as an
employee.
§ 114.16 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose. The private or semi-private performance of adult live
entertainment in areas commonly known as “VIP rooms”, “VIP booths” or “VIP
areas” presents opportunities for illegal activity such as, but not limited to,
indecent exposure and solicitation for prostitution. The purpose of this
section is to eliminate VIP adult live entertainment and to require all adult
live entertainment to occur in a manner and location that freely permits
management and a broad number of patrons to visually observe the entertainment
so as to minimize the opportunities for adult live entertainment to lead to
illegal activity. The provisions of this section shall be interpreted and
applied in light of this purpose.
   (B)   An adult live entertainment business, regardless of whether or not a
license has been issued for said business under this chapter, shall be subject
to the following.
      (1)   An application for a sexually oriented business license for adult
live entertainment shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises specifying
areas where adult live entertainment may occur. A professionally prepared
diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall not be
required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or some
designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all
areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The Chief of Police may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises and the areas where adult
live entertainment may occur required to be designated in the diagram have not
been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   Areas where adult live entertainment may occur must:
         (a)   Be at least 750 square feet in area. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, an adult live entertainment business that, as of the effective date
of this chapter, has its only area where adult live entertainment occurs an
area of less than 750 square feet may continue to offer adult live
entertainment in that area so long as:
            1.   The square footage of the area is not reduced;
            2.   Adult live entertainment does not occur in any other area of
the business establishment; and
            3.   The business complies with all other provisions of this
chapter.
         (b)   Contain one or more stages or raised areas where adult live
entertainment will occur;
         (c)   Be accessible to all patrons without payment of any charge other
than the charge, if any, for entry into the premises, such as a cover charge or
membership fee; and
         (d)   Not contain any areas visually screened, obstructed or separated
from the majority of the patrons located in that area, which patrons are
present in that area without payment of any charge other than the charge, if
any, for entry into the premises, such as a cover charge or membership fee.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration of the areas where adult live
entertainment may occur designated in the diagram required by division (B)(1)
above may be made without first attaining an amendment to the license by
submitting and receiving approval of a new diagram.
      (4)   Adult live entertainment may occur only:
         (a)   In the presence of and visually observable by an employee who is
not an adult live entertainer;
         (b)   In the presence of and visually observable by more than one
patron;
         (c)   In an area that is shown on an approved diagram as an area where
adult live entertainment may occur;
         (d)   In an area that is not visually screened, obstructed or
separated from the majority of the patrons located in that area, which patrons
are present without payment of any charge other than the charge, if any, for
entry into the premises, such as a cover charge or membership fee;
         (e)   In an area that is accessible to all patrons without payment of
any charge other than the charge, if any, for entry into the premises, such as
a cover charge or membership fee.
         (f)   Divisions (B)(4)(d) and (B)(4)(e) above do not prohibit or limit
charges to patrons by adult live entertainers, or payment to, or the tipping
of, such persons by the patrons.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the operator and any owner who is present on
the premises to ensure that adult live entertainment is not performed in the
presence of patrons in violation of division (B)(4) above. It shall be unlawful
for any such operator or owner to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for an adult live entertainer to engage in or
perform adult live entertainment in violation of division (B)(4) above.
§ 114.17 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATERS.
   (A)   An adult mini motion picture theater, regardless of whether or not a
license has been issued for said business under this chapter, shall be subject
to the following.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations, the location
of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the premises
in which patrons will not be permitted. A professionally prepared diagram in
the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blue print shall not be required;
however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or some designated street
or object and should be drawn to a designated scale with marked dimensions
sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior
of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The Chief of Police
may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the applicant
adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without prior approval of the Chief of Police.
      (3)   At least one employee must be on duty and situated at each
manager’s station at all times that any patron is present in or on the
premises.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose, excluding restrooms, from at least one of the manager’s stations.
The view required in this division (A)(4) must be by direct line of sight from
the manager’s station.
      (5)   The entrance to each adult mini motion picture booth shall be free
of any obstruction such as a door, curtain, wall, partial wall, panel, board,
merchandise, display rack or other material.
      (6)   There shall be no openings or glass of any kind between booths, and
booths shall not be designed, constructed or configured in such a manner that
the interior of any booth may be visible or made to be visible from any other
booth.
      (7)   The interior of each booth shall be sufficiently illuminated so
that the inside of the booth is visible from the manager’s station(s) as set
forth in division (A)(4) above.
      (8)   No booth shall be occupied by more than one patron at any time.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator and any owner or employees who
are present on the premises to ensure compliance with divisions (A)(3) through
(A)(8) above. It shall be unlawful for any person having such a duty to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
§ 114.18 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CLOTHING MODELING STUDIOS.
   (A)   A clothing modeling studio, regardless of whether or not a license has
been issued for said business under this chapter, shall be subject to the
following.
      (1)   A model shall not encourage or permit a patron to expose or display
his or her (the patron’s) specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   A model shall not suggest or imply that a customer should or is
permitted to expose or display his or her (the patron’s) specified anatomical
areas.
      (3)   A model shall not expose or display his or her (the model’s)
specified anatomical areas at any time the model is in the presence of a
patron.
      (4)   A model shall not straddle a patron.
      (5)   A model shall not offer or agree to straddle a patron.
      (6)   A model shall not intentionally touch the clothed or unclothed body
of a patron at any point below the waist and above the knee of the patron.
      (7)   A model shall not encourage or permit a patron to touch the clothed
or unclothed body of the model at any point below the waist and above the knee
of the model.
      (8)   A model shall not encourage or permit a patron to touch the clothed
or unclothed breast of the model.
      (9)   All fees and charges, including tips and gratuities, paid by a
patron of a clothing modeling studio shall be paid to the model or the studio
before the modeling session begins. A model shall not solicit or accept any
tip, gratuity or compensation from a patron in violation of the foregoing.
      (10)   All modeling for a patron must occur in the presence of and be
visually observable by an employee who is not a model.
      (11)   The entrance to each room in which modeling for a patron is being
performed shall be free of any obstruction such as a door, curtain, wall,
partial wall, panel, board or other device, and the entire interior of each
such room shall be visible from the aisle, walkway or hallway leading to the
room.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator and any owner who is present on
the premises to ensure that clothing modeling is not performed in the presence
of a patron in violation of division (A) above. It shall be unlawful for any
such operator or owner to knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a model to violate any of the provisions of
division (A) above.
§ 114.19 REGULATIONS GOVERNING EXISTING SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   Any sexually oriented business existing prior to the effective date of this
chapter shall comply with the regulations contained herein 90 days after the
effective date of this chapter.
PENALTY
§ 114.50 CRIMINAL PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the following provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as provided in G.S. § 14-4 and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to a maximum fine of $500 or imprisonment, or
both: §§
114.04(A),
114.07,
114.10(D),
114.11(E),
114.14(C),
114.15,
114.16(C) and (D),
114.17(B) and
114.18(B) and (C). Each violation shall be considered a separate and distinct
offense, and each day of continued violation shall be considered as a separate
offense. The issuance of a notice of violation or a suspension or revocation of
a sexually oriented business license shall not prohibit the imposition of a
criminal penalty and the imposition of a criminal penalty shall not prevent the
issuance of a notice of violation or a suspension or revocation of the license.
§ 114.51 CIVIL INJUNCTION.
   In addition to the issuance of a notice of violation, the suspension or
revocation of a sexually oriented business license, or a prosecution for
criminal violations, any person who violates this chapter may be subject to all
civil and equitable remedies stated in G.S. § 160A-175.
§ 114.52 SEVERABILITY.
   In the event that any provision of this chapter, or any part thereof, or any
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction on its face or as applied, such holding shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of any of the remaining provisions of this chapter,
or any part thereof, or any application thereof to any person or circumstance
or of said provision as applied to any other person or circumstance. It is
hereby declared to be the legislative intent of the Town Board that this
chapter would have been adopted had such unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective provisions not been included herein.
CHAPTER 115: MOTORIZED VENDORS OF ICE CREAM PRODUCTS
Section
   
115.01   Operator’s license required
   
115.02   Regulations on sales by ice cream vending vehicles
   
115.03   Denial or revocation of license; appeal
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 OPERATOR’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Lawful products. Subject to the limitations set forth in this chapter,
it shall be lawful to sell from motor vehicles operated on town streets:
      (1)   Wrapped or prepackaged ice cream products;
      (2)   Ice cream products dispensed directly from the freezer container in
which they are produced into a cup or cone at the time of sale and without
dipping or other handling; and
      (3)   Ice products, flavored or sweetened.
   (B)   Health Department approval required. Any person operating or managing
any such vehicle shall first obtain approval from the County Health Department
which shall provide the operator or manager with certification that the vehicle
meets Health Department requirements. This certification shall be on a form
furnished by the town and must be presented to the Administrator before an
operator’s license will be issued.
   (C)   Operator’s license required. In addition to approval by the County
Health Department, each operator of an ice cream vending vehicle must also
obtain an operator’s license. An application for such license must be filed
with the Town Clerk in writing on a form furnished by the town’s Police
Department, verified under oath or affirmation, and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and physical description of the applicant;
      (2)   Permanent home address and full business address of the applicant;
      (3)   If employed, or acting as an agent, the name and address of the
employer, or principal, together with credentials establishing the exact
relationship;
      (4)   Two photographs of the applicant, showing the head and shoulders,
which have been taken within 60 days of filing the application;
      (5)   The driver’s license number of the applicant;
      (6)   The registration number of the vehicle to be operated; and
      (7)   Such other information as may be reasonably required by the
Administrator.
   (D)   Issuance of operator’s license. Upon submission of a completed
application and verification of the information required to be submitted
pursuant to this section, the Chief of Police or his or her designee shall
issue an operator’s license. The operator’s license shall include the signature
of the Chief of Police, the name, address and driver’s license number of the
applicant and the registration number of the vehicle to be operated. All
licenses issued under the provisions of this division (D) shall be valid for
one year beginning July 1 and ending the following June 30.
   (E)   Fee. Upon the payment of a fee, to the Town Clerk, of $15 to defray
the cost of issuing such license. This fee is separate and apart from the fee
to be paid as a privilege license tax, if required by the town.
   (F)   Insurance requirements. Each vehicle used on the streets of the city
for the sale of such products shall be insured by an insurance company licensed
to write public liability insurance in this state in the amounts of $100,000
for a single injury or death, $300,000 for injury or death to two or more
people resulting from one accident and $25,000 for property damage. Evidence
that such insurance has been issued and is in force shall be provided to the
Town Clerk at the time of application for an operator’s license.
§ 115.02 REGULATIONS ON SALES BY ICE CREAM VENDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   The operator’s license required to be issued pursuant to this chapter
must be posted conspicuously in the ice cream vending vehicle at all times, and
must be produced upon request by a law enforcement officer.
   (B)   Operators of ice cream vending vehicles shall not operate such
vehicles for the purpose of making sales before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to peddle or sell ice cream products within two
blocks of a school during the hours in which such school is in session. No such
vehicle shall park within 15 feet of an intersection for the purpose of selling
such products, nor shall any such vehicle occupy the same parking area for more
than 30 minutes at any one time. Nothing in these regulations shall be
construed to relieve the operator of such vehicle from obeying state law and/or
town ordinances with respect to traffic, and nothing shall give such operator
the right or privilege to obstruct traffic with such vehicle.
   (D)   Every vehicle and everything pertaining thereto used by a vendor shall
at all times be maintained in a clean and orderly condition, and no portion of
the contents thereof shall be thrown, spilled or deposited upon the streets or
other public place. The operators of such vehicles shall at all times keep the
sidewalks, streets or other public spaces around such vehicle clean and free
from paper and refuse of any and all kinds.
   (E)   Every ice cream vending vehicle shall have the name of the vendor and
the location where such vehicle is stored when not in use painted thereon
plainly and legibly. Additionally, all such vehicles shall be marked, in a way
that is clearly visible to other motorists, to indicate that they are ice cream
vending vehicles.
   (F)   The County Health Department certification required to be obtained
pursuant to this chapter must be posted conspicuously in the ice cream vending
vehicle at all times. In addition, the standards for the composition of ice
cream and other frozen products sold shall in all instances conform to the
requirements of the state’s Department of Agriculture.
§ 115.03 DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   An operator’s license may be denied or revoked by the Administrator
for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The application is incomplete or contains false statements;
      (2)   The applicant or licensee has been convicted of any crime involving
moral turpitude within three years of the application date; or
      (3)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall notify the applicant or licensee in writing
of his or her decision to deny or revoke a license, which notification shall
state the reasons therefor and inform the applicant or licensee of the right of
appeal as set forth below.
   (C)   Within five days from receipt of notice by the Chief of Police of
revocation of an existing license or denial of an application, the applicant or
licensee may appeal by submitting a written request to the Administrator for a
hearing before the Code Administrator. The Code Administrator shall hear the
appeal as soon as practicable. The Code Administrator may affirm or reverse the
decision of the Chief of Police and his or her decision shall be final.
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine up to $500 as provided in G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 116: STREET VENDORS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Permit required
   
116.03   Applications for permits
   
116.04   Assignment of vendor site locations
   
116.05   Prohibited conduct
   
116.06   Denial/revocation of permits
   
116.07   Enforcement
   
116.08   Terms and transfer
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE ADMINISTRATOR. Person appointed by the Town Manager to serve as the
Administrator of this code of ordinances.
   FOOD. Solid food and non-alcoholic beverages and shall only include foods
sold by the piece or an individual serving. Any such FOOD must strictly comply
with any regulations as interpreted and administered by the County Department
of Health, or any other food code enforcement agency.
   GEOGRAPHIC SCOPE. This chapter shall apply only to the public streets,
sidewalks and any other public property. Designated vending locations may
change from time to time based on the location of permanent retail
establishments within the town in order to prevent conflicts between the street
vendor and the permanent establishment.
   PERMIT. The street vendor permit issued by the town pursuant to G.S. §§
160A-174 and 160A-194.
   PERSONS. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section in this chapter
prescribing a penalty as applied to a partnership or association, the word
shall include the partners or members thereof, such word as applied to
corporation shall include the officers, agents or employees thereof who are
responsible for any violation of said section.
   STAND. Pushcart, counter, stall or other facility used for the displaying,
storing or transporting of articles offered for sale by a vendor. A STAND shall
be capable of being easily removed at the end of each day.
   STREET VENDOR COORDINATOR. The Code Administrator or his or her designee.
   TOWN. The Town of Cramerton, North Carolina, or its authorized agent(s).
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Cramerton.
   VENDOR. A person receiving a street vendor permit under this chapter.
§ 116.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or to offer for sale, any food,
beverage, merchandise or anything else on the street, sidewalk, public right-
of-way or other town owned property unless such person shall have first secured
a proper license to sell such product according to the regulations of this
chapter. The street vendor permit shall be exhibited in a conspicuous location
at all times of operation. This chapter shall not apply to news vending
machines.
§ 116.03 APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Applications for street vendor permits shall be submitted to the Town
Clerk along with the non-refundable application fee approved by the Town Board.
Upon submission, the application shall be reviewed by the Street Vendor
Coordinator for compliance with division (B) below and he or she shall issue or
to deny the vendor application. The Street Vendor Coordinator shall have sole
authority to determine whether a permit should be issued or denied based on the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Potential vendors shall apply for a street vendor permit and such
application shall contain, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The name, home and business address and telephone numbers of the
applicant;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the business owner, if other
than the applicant;
      (3)   The name of the vending business;
      (4)   A description of the type of food, beverage or merchandise to be
sold;
      (5)   A description and a photograph of the stand to be used in operation
with the business;
      (6)   Three prints of a full-face photograph, taken not more than 30 days
prior to the date of the application, of any person who will sell or offer to
sell any food, beverage or merchandise upon any street or sidewalk subject to
this chapter;
      (7)   Evidence of adequate insurance, as determined by the Street Vendor
Coordinator, to hold the town harmless from claims arising out of the operation
of the sidewalk vendor;
      (8)   An indemnity statement whereby the operator/owner agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the town and its officers, agents and employees
from any claim arising from the operation of the sidewalk vendor;
      (9)   A copy of all permits and licenses issued by the state, county or
town, including health permits, if any, necessary for the operation of the
sidewalk vending business;
      (10)   Payment of a non-refundable application fee to cover the
administrative costs of reviewing applications, issuing permits and for the
monitoring of vendor activities; and
      (11)   Any such other information, relevant to this chapter, as may be
required by the town.
   (C)   No later than 45 days after filing of the completed application for a
permit, the applicant shall be notified by the town of the decision on the
issuance or denial of the permit. If the permit is denied, the applicant shall
be provided by the town with a written statement from the Street Vendor
Coordinator outlining the reasons for the denial. Issued permits are not
transferable in any way and the recipient of the permit remains responsible for
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   No street vendor permit issued pursuant to this section shall be valid
during times of special events sponsored or sanctioned by the town (e.g.,
street festivals, Annual Independence Day event, between and including set up
and clean up phases).
§ 116.04 ASSIGNMENT OF VENDOR SITE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   The Street Vendor Coordinator shall assign site locations to all of
those applicants meeting the requirements in §
116.03(B) of this chapter. Site assignment shall be made by lottery, on a
first- come/first-served basis, or in accordance with some other fair
procedure.
   (B)   The assignment of vendor locations shall be compatible with the health
and safety of the public, the public interest and use of sidewalk areas and
public rights-of-way and shall take into consideration the proximity of
existing street furniture (e.g., bus shelters, telephone booths, truck loading
zones, building entrances and the like), proximity to other vendor locations,
and the like, in order to ensure that there will not be pedestrian and street
congestion or obstruction and in order to contribute as effectively as possible
to the purposes of this chapter in order to create an attractive and lively
environment for pedestrians.
§ 116.05 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   The following shall constitute unlawful conduct.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Violate any federal or state law or any county or town ordinance or
regulation that pertains to food, beverages or the selling thereof or that
pertains to the operation of the street vendor’s business pursuant to this
chapter;
      (2)   Fail to permit any lawfully requested inspection by health
officials or to comply with any lawful request of a police officer;
      (3)   Fail to carry and display at all times the permit issued under this
chapter;
      (4)   Have a stand that is not in compliance with any special
restrictions or conditions stated in the permit;
      (5)   Vend without insurance required by this chapter. Insurance required
by this chapter shall not be cancelled until 30 days’ written notice of such
cancellation shall be given to the town. Any termination or lapse of such
insurance shall automatically revoke any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter. Insurance requirements shall be subject to revision by the town. It
shall be the responsibility of the vendor to ensure that valid certificates of
insurance are kept on file with the town;
      (6)   Vend in any area other than that space designated by the permit.
The vendor must locate within the designated polygon so that the vendor and
customers can interact within the designated area;
      (7)   Leave any stand overnight on any street or sidewalk; or park other
than in a lawful parking place or in violation of any parking ordinance of the
town; or fail to remove any stand during non- manned hours;
      (8)   Sell food or beverages for immediate consumption, unless the vendor
has available for public use the vendor’s litter receptacle or a public litter
receptacle no more than ten feet in distance from the vendor’s stand;
      (9)   Leave any location without first picking up, removing and disposing
of all trash or refuse remaining from sales made by the vendor;
      (10)   Allow any item relating to the operation of the vending business
to be placed anywhere other than in, on or under the stand;
      (11)   Offer to sell any goods other than those permitted by the permit;
      (12)   Sound or permit the sounding of any device which produces a loud
and raucous noise or engage in any hawking or harassment for the purpose of
attracting the attention of the public to the stand for commercial purposes;
      (13)   Have any advertising, except the posting of prices, the name of
the product and the name of the vendor, if desired; and
      (14)   Use a vehicle to pick up or deliver a stand during the hours of 7:
30 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.
§ 116.06 DENIAL/REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The Street Vendor Coordinator shall have the authority to deny,
suspend or revoke a permit for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud or misrepresentation contained in the application for the
permit or, in applying for the permit, failure to provide the information
required by this chapter, by the town or the Street Vendor Coordinator;
      (2)   Fraud or misrepresentation made in the course of carrying on the
business of vending or failure to pay required sales tax;
      (3)   A violation of a provision of this article or the review
applications; and/or
      (4)   Conviction of the permittee for any felony or for a misdemeanor
related to the vendor business authorized by the permit.
   (B)   The Street Vendor Coordinator shall have the authority to suspend or
revoke a permit for any of the reasons stated in §
116.05 of this chapter.
   (C)   If a permit is suspended or revoked, the permittee shall have the
right to appeal the revocation or the suspension to the Town Manager or his or
her designee in writing within ten days of the suspension or revocation. The
decision of the Town Manager or his or her designee shall be final.
§ 116.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the authority under this chapter to deny, to suspend or to
revoke a permit, any or all of the following methods shall be available for
enforcing this chapter.
   (A)   Officers of the Cramerton Police Department shall have the authority
to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to issue citations for violations
of same. Further, if a vendor with a permit is convicted of a criminal
misdemeanor for a violation of this chapter or has a permit revoked, then the
town may reject any new application for any kind of permit under this chapter
for a 12-month period from the date of conviction or revocation.
   (B)   Any remedies available to the County Department of Health or any other
agency responsible for enforcing laws pertaining to the activities carried out
by this chapter shall be available to such personnel to enforce this chapter.
   (C)   This chapter and its requirements, rights or privileges shall not
apply in any respect to any market, festival or activity, arts and crafts
exhibits or other similar events sanctioned by the town or by the Town Manager
or his or her designee.
§ 116.08 TERMS AND TRANSFER.
   (A)   Permits issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall
remain in effect for a period stated in the permit up to one year. One person
shall not have more than two valid vendor’s permits. A vendor shall be
permitted to reapply and to retain a site location for a period not to exceed
two years, after which time the site location(s) shall be reassigned in
accordance with the procedures followed by the Street Vendor Coordinator.
   (B)   Street vendor permits shall not be transferable or assignable.
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of no more than $500 or as provided in G.S. §
14-4.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OPERATION AND USE OF PARKS AND TRAILS
      
132.   EXPRESSIVE ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Possession/discharge of weapons
   
130.02   Consumption of beer and wine on public property prohibited
   
130.03   Spitting on sidewalks and in public buildings prohibited
   
130.04   Trespassing upon town facilities
   
130.05   Sale of goods at town facilities
   
130.06   Solicitation by wrecker companies at accident scenes
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 POSSESSION/DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   No person may fire or discharge within the town limits any rifle,
shotgun, handgun or other firearm, whether on or off his or her premises. This
section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Sworn law enforcement officers of the town, any county, city, state
or federal law enforcement officer when acting in discharge of their official
duties;
      (2)   Persons acting pursuant to the lawful directions of law enforcement
officers;
      (3)   Persons engaged in the lawful defense of persons or property from
unlawful attack; and
      (4)   Persons engaged in otherwise lawful activity in an area
specifically designated by the town as a firearms range and then only with
written permission of the Chief of Police and in accordance with any
regulations established by the Chief of Police for use of the firearms range.
   (B)   No person may fire or discharge any air gun, air rifle, air pistol, BB
gun, pellet gun, pump gun, paint-ball gun, bow and arrow, slingshot or any
other similar contrivance within 200 yards of any residence within the town
limits whether on or off his or her premises.
   (C)   No person may bring, possess or carry, whether openly or concealed,
any weapon, not being solely used for officially sanctioned ceremonial
purposes, onto any property owned or occupied by the town. For the purposes of
this section, WEAPON shall include any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded; any
air gun, air rifle, air pistol, BB gun, pellet gun, pump gun, paint-ball gun,
bow and arrow, slingshot, or any other similar contrivance; any dirk, dagger,
loaded cane, metallic knuckles, razor, shurikin, stun gun or any other weapons
of any kind. The section is not designed to prohibit an ordinary pocket knife,
not exceeding six inches in overall length, when carried in the closed
position.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to sworn law enforcement officers of
the town, or any county, city, state, federal law enforcement officer or any
qualified retired law enforcement officer, as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 926C.
      (2)   It shall not be a violation of this section for a concealed handgun
permittee, possessing a valid concealed handgun permit, to have a handgun in a
locked vehicle within the trunk, glovebox or other enclosed compartment or area
within or on a motor vehicle when same is parked within the parking area of a
town park, playground, ball field, picnic shelter, swimming pool or any other
recreation facility.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to any greenway, designated biking or
walking path, any area that is customarily used as a walkway or bike path
although not specifically designated for such use, open areas or fields where
athletic events are not currently taking place, or any other area not
specifically described herein, if the person in possession of a concealed
handgun holds a valid concealed handgun permit.
§ 130.02 CONSUMPTION OF BEER AND WINE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall transport any alcoholic beverage in the
passenger area of any motor vehicle when the cap or seal on the container has
been broken.
      (2)   No person shall display any alcoholic beverage in public at any
ball parks, school grounds, church yards or on any street or in any wooded area
not on the property of the person displaying the alcoholic beverage or at any
public or private recreation area within the town limits in any container of
which the cap or seal has been broken.
      (3)   No person may consume any alcoholic beverage on any facility’s
right-of-way or other property owned or occupied by the town.
   (B)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE shall mean any beverage containing at least 0.5%
alcohol by volume, including malt beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine,
spirituous liquor and mixed beverages.
   (C)   It shall not be a violation of division (A) above if possession and
consumption of an alcoholic beverage occurred upon town-owned or occupied
property when a valid special occasion alcohol permit had been issued by the
appropriate authority pursuant to §
132.18.
§ 130.03 SPITTING ON SIDEWALKS AND IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   No person may expectorate on any sidewalk, or on the floor of any public
conveyance, or on the floor or wall of any public building.
§ 130.04 TRESPASSING UPON TOWN FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may enter upon or use any town owned or occupied swimming
pool, playground, park or other facility, except at the times specified by and
in accordance with the regulations duly established by the town.
   (B)   No person may refuse to leave any town owned or operated swimming
pool, playground, park or other town facility when requested to do so, by the
person in charge thereof or any law enforcement officer with competent
jurisdiction, because the person is engaged in conduct that is any of the
following: dangerous to himself or herself or others; seriously disruptive to
the peaceful enjoyment by others of the facilities; otherwise in violation of
rules or regulations for the facilities duly adopted by the town.
§ 130.05 SALE OF GOODS AT TOWN FACILITIES.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) below, no person may sell or offer
for sale any goods or merchandise whatsoever within any parks or other
facilities owned by the town.
   (B)   The restrictions set forth in division (A) above shall not apply to
persons under contract with the town to provide goods or merchandise primarily
as a service to the public or to persons selling goods or merchandise at a
festival, fair or other special event operated by or under the sanction of the
town, so long as the sales take place in accordance with the rules and
regulations established by the town for special events pursuant to the Town of
Cramerton Code of Ordinances
Ch. 132.
§ 130.06 SOLICITATION BY WRECKER COMPANIES AT ACCIDENT SCENES.
   (A)   The Town Board finds the following.
      (1)   The town has experienced problems with wrecker companies
intercepting police calls and responding to accident scenes without being
called by the police or a person involved in the accident.
      (2)   There have been instances of wrecker companies arguing between
themselves over the right to tow disabled vehicles and asking accident victims
for their business.
      (3)   These activities contribute to the confusion at an accident scene
and create obstructions to traffic.
      (4)   G.S. § 160A-296 grants to towns the authority to regulate the use
of public streets.
      (5)   G.S. § 160A-300 grants to towns the authority to prohibit,
regulate, divert, control and limit vehicular traffic upon the public streets.
      (6)   It is in the interest of the public safety and welfare to prohibit
wrecker companies from soliciting business at accident scenes.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the term WRECKER shall mean a person,
firm or corporation engaged in the business of, or offering the services of, a
vehicle wrecker or towing service, whereby motor vehicles are or may be towed
or otherwise removed from one place to another by the use of a motor vehicle
adapted to and designed for that purpose.
   (C)   No wrecker may respond to the scene of an accident or emergency for
the purpose of towing vehicles unless called there by a law enforcement officer
with competent jurisdiction or a person involved in the accident or emergency.
This section is intended to prohibit wrecker owners from soliciting business at
the scenes of accidents and emergencies and shall not be construed to prohibit
any wrecker from contracting with any person, firm or corporation; provided
that, the wrecker owner, his or her agents and employees do not solicit towing
contracts at the scenes of accidents or emergencies.
   (D)   Town staff, including law enforcement officers employed by the town,
shall utilize a rotation schedule when requesting wrecker/tow services on
behalf of the town. The Chief of Police shall develop and maintain a rotation
wrecker policy that shall apply to all employees of the town.
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be a Class
3 misdemeanor punishable by a fine in the amount of no more than $500 pursuant
to G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175.
   (B)   Persons violating §
130.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be
fined not more than $500. The weapon shall be confiscated and shall only be
released to its owner by order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2024)
CHAPTER 131: OPERATION AND USE OF PARKS AND TRAILS
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Park/trail hours
   
131.04   Closing of parks/trails
   
131.05   Fees
   
131.06   Environmental protection
   
131.07   Fires
   
131.08   Domestic animals
   
131.09   Water access
   
131.10   Camping
   
131.11   Permits/reservations
   
131.12   Vehicular traffic within parks/trails
   
131.13   Prohibited behaviors generally
   
131.14   Registered sex offenders prohibited within parks and/or upon trails
   
131.15   Dog park(s)
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to secure the quiet, orderly and suitable use
and enjoyment of public parks and trails within the town and to further the
safety, health, comfort and welfare of all persons in the use thereof.
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Town of Cramerton Board of Commissioners.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the Town of Cramerton, or his or her
designee.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Cramerton Parks and Recreation Department
acting directly or through his or her agent.
   HORSE. Any horse, mule, donkey, llama, alpaca or other ungulate or ruminant
that is used to transport people, equipment or materials.
   MANAGER. The Town Manager of the Town of Cramerton.
   METAL DETECTING. To use an electronic or mechanical device to locate metals
or other artifacts that are underground or under water.
   MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any motorized conveyance including, but not limited to,
cars, trucks, motorcycles, tractors, farm machinery, motorized scooters, golf
carts, motorized bicycles, utility vehicles (UTV), all-terrain vehicles (ATV),
snowmobile and dune buggies.
   NON-MOTORIZED VEHICLE. Any non-motorized conveyance including, but not
limited to, bicycles, unicycles, skates, skateboards, scooters, wheelchairs,
wagons, bicycle trailers and motorized wheelchairs.
   PARK. Any land, area or structure designated by the Board as a park,
recreation area, gymnasium, recreation center, recreation facility, playground,
bridge, landing, launch, ball field, shelter, picnic area, campground, swimming
pool or any other recreation facility; and the parking facilities thereof,
owned, leased, operated, maintained or controlled by the town.
   PARK PERSONNEL. Any employee of the Cramerton Parks and Recreation
Department, whether full-time, part-time or volunteer, acting with authority of
the Director.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association or other
groups.
   PRIVATE PARTS. External organs of sex and excretion, male and female
genitalia and anus.
   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. Any person who is registered by any state or
federal agency as a sex offender and whose name is published on any state or
federal registered sex offender listing, including, but not limited to, the sex
offender registry established in G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 27A.
   TRAIL. All of the land contained within any area designated by the Board as
a recreation trail, greenway, walking track, hiking trail, path or the like.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any wheeled conveyance, including bicycles, whether motor powered,
animal drawn or self-propelled.
      (2)   The term shall include any trailer of any kind or description, but
shall not include wheelchairs.
   WATERCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designed for navigation on water.
   WEAPON. Any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded; any air gun, air rifle, air
pistol, BB gun, pellet gun, pump gun, paint-ball gun, bow and arrow, slingshot
or any other similar contrivance; any dirk, dagger, loaded cane, metallic
knuckles, razor, shurikin, stun gun or any other weapons of any type.
§ 131.03 PARK/TRAIL HOURS.
   (A)   All parks and trails shall open daily at dawn and close at dusk,
unless otherwise posted.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter, by any means, within any
park or upon any trail prior to dawn, after dusk or outside of the hours posted
for park or trail operation.
   (C)   The Director shall have the authority to allow any park or trail to
remain open for any town- sponsored or permitted event.
§ 131.04 CLOSING OF PARKS/TRAILS.
   (A)   Any section or part of any park or trail may be declared closed to the
public by the town at any time and for any interval of time, either temporarily
or at regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise) and closed to certain
uses.
   (B)   The Manager, Director, Chief of Police or any law enforcement officer,
with competent jurisdiction, may temporarily close or suspend activity at any
park or trail as deemed necessary to maintain order, to protect persons or
property or to promote the public safety, health and welfare.
§ 131.05 FEES.
   (A)   The Board may establish park and trail user fees, as deemed
appropriate. Such fees may vary by location.
   (B)   The Director shall have the authority to institute certain fees as
approved by the Manager.
§ 131.06 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
   (A)   Damage, cut, carve, transplant, collect, gather or remove any tree or
plant, berry or cone, or injure the bark, pick the flowers or seeds of any tree
or plant, to dig or otherwise disturb grass areas in any other way, or injure
or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area of any park or trail.
Collections for scientific and educational purposes may be allowed with written
permission from the Director;
   (B)   Dispose of any type of waste, generated off-site, in or on any park or
trail or within any park or trail waste container;
   (C)   Dump, deposit or leave any bottles, broken glass, ashes, charcoal,
gas, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, wastes, garbage or refuse, or other
trash at any park or trail location other than those areas provided for refuse
collection;
   (D)   Fail to haul away, for proper disposal, any bottles, broken glass,
ashes, charcoal, gas, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, wastes, garbage or
refuse, or other trash from any park or trail location where refuse collection
areas are not provided;
   (E)   Possess any glass container within any park or upon any trail;
   (F)   Intentionally disturb, provoke or interfere unreasonably with any
wildlife occupying any park or trail;
   (G)   Hunt or trap in any park or upon any trail; and/or
   (H)   Access a body of water from any park or trail for the purpose of
seining minnows or collecting other aquatic animals for commercial use.
§ 131.07 FIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, within any park or upon any trail, to build,
ignite or maintain any fire unless same is built, ignited or maintained within
a commercial fireplace, grill, stove or fire ring provided by the Director for
the purpose being used.
   (B)   Fires built, ignited or maintained pursuant to division (A) above
shall be attended all times by a person at least 16 years of age or older.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to leave any area of any park or trail before any
grill or legally built, ignited or maintained fire is completely extinguished.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to leave charcoal or any other debris in any
fireplace, grill, stove or fire ring.
   (E)   No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lighted matches,
burning cigarettes or cigars, or other flammable material within any park or
trail area, into any waterway or upon any highway, road or street abutting or
continuous thereto.
§ 131.08 DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
   (A)   Allow or permit any dogs or other domestic animals to run at large or
to leave any excrement from such animal on any area of any park or trail. Dogs
that are off-leash while utilizing an area designated by the Board as a dog
park, as defined in §
131.15 of this chapter, shall not be in violation;
   (B)   Release or abandon any animal within any park or upon any trail;
   (C)   Feed any wildlife or feral animals within any park or upon any trail;
and/or
   (D)   Ride, lead or allow any horse within any park or upon any trail.
§ 131.09 WATER ACCESS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to:
   (A)   Launch or land any watercraft in any area of any park or trail not
designated for such use;
   (B)   Access any body of water, from any park or trail, for the purposes of
diving or swimming. Any person swimming in any area designated for swimming or
a facility operated by the town as a public swimming pool, during times of
operation, shall not be in violation;
   (C)   Throw items from, jump from, hang from, fish from, climb upon or
engage in any other unsafe or disruptive behavior on any bridge within any park
or upon any trail; and/or
   (D)   Fish from any pier, overlook, deck, launch or any other area of any
park or trail when such area has been posted as “No Fishing” by the Director.
§ 131.10 CAMPING.
   It shall be unlawful to:
   (A)   Camp in any area of any park or upon any trail that has not been
posted by the Director as to allow camping;
   (B)   Establish camp in a posted camping area without first obtaining a
permit from the Director;
   (C)   Camp in a posted camping area for longer than seven consecutive days;
   (D)   Empty any wastewater holding tank upon any portion of any park or
trail, to include any waters thereof; and/or
   (E)   Leave within any park or upon any trail, after closing hours, any
movable structure same not being a part of a permitted campsite.
§ 131.11 PERMITS/RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   Any requests for special events to be held at or reserved use of any
park and/or trail must be approved by the Director. In addition, events
involving groups of 50 or more must obtain an events permit from the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   The Director has the authority and responsibility to determine the
manner of receiving, reviewing and approving or denying any request to reserve
any town park or trail (or portion thereof) or to utilize any park and/or trail
for any event.
   (C)   All persons claiming possession of a permit or reservation issued by
the Director must be able to produce or exhibit such permit or reservation upon
request from any park personnel or law enforcement officer, with competent
jurisdiction, who shall desire to inspect same for the purpose of enforcing
compliance with any portion of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person, to whom a permit or reservation is issued, shall be liable
for any loss or damage to any park or trail property by any person from the
group he or she represents.
   (E)   The Director, park personnel or any law enforcement officer with
competent jurisdiction shall have the authority to revoke any reservation or
permit upon finding a violation of any portion of this chapter or any posted
park/trail rule or regulation.
   (F)   The use of electronic sound equipment, including, but not limited to,
public address systems, musical instruments and amplifiers, shall be
prohibited, unless a permit for such has been issued by the Director.
   (G)   The use of electrical generators shall be prohibited, except by permit
issued by the Director.
§ 131.12 VEHICULAR TRAFFIC WITHIN PARKS/TRAILS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle within the boundaries of
any park or trail, except upon designated roadways, paths or parking areas
intended for such use.
   (B)   All applicable provisions of the state’s Motor Vehicle Laws (G.S. Ch.
20) with regard to required equipment and operation of vehicles, together with
such regulations as are contained within the town’s code of ordinances shall
apply within all parks and upon all trails throughout the town.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon any roadway, path or
parking area within any park or upon any trail at a speed greater than is
prudent for the conditions then existing.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle upon any roadway, path or
parking area within any park or upon any trail carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or the safety of others.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motorized vehicle upon any portion
of any trail unless otherwise posted.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle through or around any
portion of any park or trail that is chained, gated or posted in any manner
prohibiting same.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle, within any park or
upon any trail, in any area other than an established or designated parking
area.
   (H)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to leave any vehicle unattended for longer
than 12 consecutive hours on any park or trail property or parking area.
      (2)   Vehicles found unattended within any park or upon any trail parking
area, regardless of the length of time parked at the location, may be towed and
stored at the owner’s expense by the Director or any law enforcement officer,
with competent jurisdiction, after making a determination that leaving the
vehicle parked at the location may result in: personal injury; damage to the
parked vehicle; damage to town property or damage to any other property.
   (I)   Golf carts and utility vehicles are allowed upon trails only where
signed by the Director. Where golf carts or utility vehicles are allowed upon
trails, all such vehicles must yield the right-of-way to pedestrians and other
such vehicles already in motion upon said trail. Passing of golf carts or
utility vehicles upon trails or bridges, where allowed to travel, is
prohibited.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful to operate any motorized or non-motorized vehicle
within any park or upon any trail when such vehicle is emitting excessive or
unusual noise, noxious fumes, dense smoke or other pollutants.
§ 131.13 PROHIBITED BEHAVIORS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Bring, possess or carry, whether openly or concealed, any weapon, not
being solely used for officially sanctioned ceremonial purposes. The subsection
is not designed to prohibit an ordinary pocket knife, not exceeding six inches
in overall length, when carried in the closed position.
      (1)   This division (A) shall not apply to sworn law enforcement officers
of the town, or any county, city, state, federal law enforcement officer, or
qualified retired law enforcement officer as defined in 18 U.S.C. § 926C.
      (2)   It shall not be a violation of this division (A) for a concealed
handgun permittee, possessing a valid concealed handgun permit, to have a
handgun in a locked vehicle within the trunk, glove box or other enclosed
compartment or area within or on a motor vehicle.
      (3)   This division (A) shall not apply to any trail or any area that is
customarily used as a walkway or bike path although not specifically designated
for such use, open areas or fields where athletic events are not currently
taking place, or any other area not specifically described herein if the person
in possession of a concealed handgun holds a valid concealed handgun permit.
   (B)   Use or have in their possession explosives of any kind; including, but
not limited to, firecrackers, fireworks or any incendiary device or discharge
or throw any such device into any park or onto any trail from land, water or
highway adjacent thereto;
   (C)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, display or
remove any structure, equipment, facilities or other property, either real or
personal;
   (D)   Produce any noise, music or other sounds that annoy, disturb or
frighten park or trail users;
   (E)   Fail to use an individual grill, fire ring, campsite, gazebo, picnic
shelter or other park/trail amenity, together with tables and benches, on a
“first come, first serve” basis, unless a valid permit or reservation has been
issued according to rules and regulations established by the Director;
   (F)   Violate posted rules and regulations of any park or trail;
   (G)   Fail to obey any lawful direction of park personnel or law enforcement
officers having competent jurisdiction;
   (H)   Place any advertisement, decoration, sign or any other device in any
park or upon any trail without the permission of the Director;
   (I)   Enter, by any means, any area of any park or trail posted “restricted”
or “closed”;
   (J)   Be intoxicated in any park or upon any trail;
   (K)   Knowingly or intentionally urinate or defecate within any park or upon
any trail, except within enclosed facilities provided for such activities;
   (L)   Bring, possess or consume any controlled substance or the
paraphernalia or containers thereof within any park or upon any trail;
   (M)   Expose, aid and abet or procure another to expose one’s private parts,
in any park or upon any trail;
   (N)   Use tobacco products of any kind, including the use of electronic
smoking devices, in any park or upon any trail;
   (O)   Engage in loud, boisterous, threatening, abusive, insulting or
indecent language or engage in any disorderly conduct or behavior tending to be
a breach of the public peace;
   (P)   Conduct public meetings, assemblies, worship services, parades or
demonstrations involving 50 or more persons without obtaining an event permit
from the Chief of Police;
   (Q)   Intentionally disturb, provoke or interfere unreasonably with any
other person or group(s) of persons, or his, her or their property, occupying
or using any park or trail;
   (R)   Impersonate park personnel or interfere with, harass or hinder any
town employee, or town contracted personnel, in the discharge of his or her
duties within any park or upon any trail;
   (S)   Sleep or protractedly lounge on the seats, benches, floors or other
areas of any park or trail after being forbidden to do so by park personnel or
law enforcement officer with competent jurisdiction;
   (T)   Bring upon, possess, consume or display any beer, wine, whiskey or
other intoxicating liquor or beverage without proper and valid permits from the
state’s ABC Commission and/or the Chief of Police;
   (U)   Engage in or solicit business of any nature whatsoever in any park or
upon any trail without a permit being issued by the Director;
   (V)   Gamble or participate in any game of chance for a consideration of
items of value;
   (W)   Engage in metal detecting within any park or upon any trail;
   (X)   Start, fly or use any model aircraft, model boat, rocket or drone
without a permit from the Director; and/or
   (Y)   Engage in any conduct or participate in any activity within any park
or upon any trail after being advised by the Director, park personnel or a law
enforcement officer, with competent jurisdiction, that such conduct or
participation is unreasonably and unnecessarily hazardous to the personal
safety of said person or any other person, or impairs or limits the lawful use
and enjoyment of the park or trail by other persons.
§ 131.14 REGISTERED SEX OFFENDERS PROHIBITED WITHIN PARKS AND/OR UPON TRAILS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any registered sex
offender to be within any park or upon any trail owned, leased, operated or
maintained by the town.
   (B)   Each and every entrance into any park or onto any trail, regardless of
the time period involved shall constitute a separate offense under this
chapter.
   (C)   The Director shall be charged with posting this regulation at the main
entrance(s) of each park and trail.
§ 131.15 DOG PARK(S).
   (A)   General. The Board of Commissioners for the town hereby authorizes
within the municipal limits of the town dog park(s) for the purpose of allowing
the off-leash exercise of dogs. The Board further directs and authorizes the
Director of the Parks and Recreation Department to establish and operate said
dog park(s) within existing town parks as authorized by the Board and he or she
shall have the authority to control the dog park(s) and to make rules and
regulations for its operation that are consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ATTENDANT. A person 18 years or older who brings a dog to the dog park
(s). Such person is expected to be competent and knowledgeable relative to the
behavior of, and have control over, said dog(s) at all times while at or inside
the dog park(s).
      DOG PARK(S). An enclosed fenced facility designated by the Board for the
purpose of allowing dogs, under the control of their attendants, to exercise
and socialize off-leash.
      FACILITY. See DOG PARK(S).
      OWNER. Person having legal ownership of any dog using the dog park(s).
      VICIOUS DOG. A dog that has, without provocation, killed or inflicted a
life-threatening injury upon a human being.
      VISUAL CONTROL. The attendant can see the dog(s) and at all times.
      VOICE CONTROL. The attendant is able to control and recall the dog(s) at
all times, and is not allowing the dog(s) to fight with other dogs. A dog under
VOICE CONTROL must immediately come to the attendant when so commanded.
   (C)   Dog park operations. Established dog park(s) will be operated year-
round on a daily basis from dawn to dusk, unless closed by the Director for
maintenance, special events, health and safety, or severe weather. Any park
personnel, law enforcement officer with competent jurisdiction, or any
authorized employ of County Animal Control has the authority to close the dog
park(s) at any time for health and safety or to investigate a violation of this
section or other criminal offense.
   (D)   Dog park general regulations.
      (1)   To ensure the safety of the dogs, their attendants and others, the
following are not permitted in the dog park(s):
         (a)   Animals other than dogs;
         (b)   Aggressive dogs, those dogs deemed vicious or dogs who have a
previous history of aggressive behavior toward other animals or humans;
         (c)   Female dogs in heat;
         (d)   Dogs less than four months old;
         (e)   Sick or injured dogs;
         (f)   Bicycles, roller blades, skates, skateboards, exercise
equipment, radio controlled devices, strollers, children’s riding toys or any
other item(s) deemed unsafe or disruptive by the town’s parks and recreation
staff or law enforcement with competent jurisdiction;
         (g)   Motorized vehicles and devices, except wheelchairs for the
disabled;
         (h)   Glass containers;
         (i)   Alcoholic beverages or controlled substances;
         (j)   Tobacco products or electronic cigarettes;
         (k)   Drink or food of any type for human consumption; and
         (l)   Dog food, dog biscuits, dog bones, dog chews, dog treats, except
training treats administered by the dog’s attendant.
      (2)   No more than three dogs per attendant are allowed in the dog park
(s).
      (3)   No dog may be permitted in the dog park(s) without wearing a
collar.
         (a)   The collar must have attached the dog’s valid license and rabies
tag(s). Town Parks and Recreation staff, any law enforcement officer with
competent jurisdiction and authorized employees of County Animal Control may
inspect dogs within the park for valid and required tags at any time.
         (b)   Spiked collars, choke collars, prong collars and electronic
collars are prohibited.
      (4)   An attendant must immediately remove their dog(s) from the dog park
(s) at any time the dog(s) become engaged in excessive barking or exhibits
aggressive behavior toward any human or other dog.
      (5)   An attendant must use a suitable container to promptly remove any
feces deposited by their dog(s) and properly dispose of such waste material in
designated receptacles.
      (6)   Children under the age of ten are prohibited from entering the dog
park and all children in the dog park(s) must be under the supervision, care
and control of an attendant or other adult that is 18 years of age or older.
The attendant or adult supervising the child is solely responsible for the
child’s proper behavior and safety. Children who are engaged in exciting or
antagonizing any dog within the dog park(s) by any means; but not limited to,
shouting, screaming, waving their arms, throwing objects, running at or chasing
dogs must be removed from the dog park(s) immediately.
      (7)   An attendant must have a leash in-hand at all times while inside
the dog park(s) and must have the dog(s) on said leash when outside the dog
park(s).
      (8)   An attendant must fill in any hole dug at the dog park(s) by any
dog(s) under his or her control.
      (9)   Commercial dog trainers are prohibited from using the dog park(s)
to conduct business unless prior written approval is provided by the Director.
   (E)   Enforcement.
      (1)   A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall
constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in G.S. § 14-4 and/or §
131.99 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person in violation of any of the provisions of this section or
any violation of posted dog park rules is subject to removal from the dog park
(s) and may be prohibited from future use of the dog park(s). Any park
personnel or law enforcement officer, with competent jurisdiction, has the
authority to immediately remove any person in violation of this section or any
posted rules and regulations.
   (F)   Liability.
      (1)   Any person using the dog park(s) shall comply with all rules and
regulations governing the use of the facility.
      (2)   The attendant of any dog(s) utilizing the dog park(s) is
responsible for and liable for any and all injuries and damages caused by any
dog(s) under his or her control to any property, other dogs or other people.
      (3)   The attendant of any dog(s) utilizing the dog park(s) is assumed to
have the full permission of the dog(s) owner(s) to have possession of said dog
(s) and to allow said dog(s) to utilize the facility.
      (4)   Use of the dog park(s) shall constitute the implied consent of the
dog owner and/or attendant to all conditions of this section and shall
constitute a waiver of liability to the town. As such, users of the dog park(s)
agree and undertake to protect, indemnify, defend and hold the town harmless
for any injury or damage caused by or to their dog(s) to any property, other
dogs or other people during any time that said dog(s) is unleashed at the
facility.
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Title I, Ch. 10, §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, shall apply for any and all violations of
this chapter or any posted rules and regulations enacted pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   In addition to the above remedies, the Manager, or his or her
designee, shall be authorized to assess the violator for any damages to town
property and/or the cost of repair or replacement thereof made in violation of
this chapter or any posed rules and regulations, and the violator shall be
required to make restitution or reimburse the town such amounts.
   (C)   Flagrant misuse of parks and/or trails may result in forfeiture of
future use and reservation privileges. No deposit or fees will be returned to
persons asked to leave the premises for misuse of town property or due to a
violation of federal or state law, any town ordinances or any posted rules or
regulations enacted pursuant to this chapter.
   (D)   The Manager, Director, park personnel or any law enforcement officer,
with competent jurisdiction, shall have the authority to eject any person from
any park and/or trail who is acting in violation federal or state law, any town
ordinance or in violation of posted rules and regulations enacted pursuant to
this chapter.
CHAPTER 132: EXPRESSIVE ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
132.01   Purpose
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Administration by Chief of Police
   
132.04   Issuance of a special event permit does not obligate town services
   
132.05   Special event permit required
   
132.06   Exceptions to special event permit requirement
   
132.07   No waivers permitted
   
132.08   Event organizer responsibility
   
132.09   Application for special event permit: time requirements
   
132.10   Application for special event permit: form and content
   
132.11   Application for special event permit: approval and issuance
   
132.12   Denial of a special event permit
   
132.13   Revocation of special event permits
   
132.14   Appeals
   
132.15   Cost recovery for special events
   
132.16   Insurance requirements
   
132.17   Indemnity and waivers
   
132.18   Special events involving alcoholic beverages
§ 132.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of regulating special events and
public assemblies occurring, in whole or in part, on or within a town street,
parking facility, sidewalk or other public right-of-way or on private property,
and which obstruct, delay or otherwise interfere with the normal flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or which do not comply with applicable traffic
laws or controls.
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person applying for the permit and responsible for the event.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police or his or her designee.
   CODE ADMINISTRATOR. Administrator of the Code of Ordinances of the town.
   COORDINATOR. See SPECIAL EVENTS COORDINATOR.
   EVENT. Any parade, free speech event or public assembly.
   EVENT COORDINATOR. See SPECIAL EVENTS COORDINATOR.
   EVENT ORGANIZER. See APPLICANT.
   FREE SPEECH EVENT. Expressive activity protected by the First Amendment of
the United States Constitution, provided that such activity is the principle
purpose of the event.
   ORGANIZER. See APPLICANT.
   PARADE. Any organized march or organized procession of animals, vehicles or
persons (other than public employees acting within the scope of their
employment), on or within a town street, parking facility, sidewalk or other
public right-of-way, other than a group of people participating in a free
speech event or public assembly.
   PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Any group of people participating in an organized activity
(other than public employees acting within the scope of their employment), on
or within a town street, parking facility, sidewalk or other public right-of-
way, other than a group of people participating in a free speech event or
parade.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Those commercial and community activities subject to the
provisions of this chapter, including, but not limited to, events as defined
above.
   SPECIAL EVENT COORDINATOR (EVENT COORDINATOR). Person(s) designated by the
Chief of Police as the public point of contact for the special event.
   TOWN MANAGER. The Town Manager or his or her designee.
§ 132.03 ADMINISTRATION BY CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue permits for special
event occurring within the town limits, pursuant to the procedures established
in this chapter. The Chief of Police will designate a Special Event Coordinator
to act as the public point of contact for any special event permit issued. The
Special Event Coordinator is authorized to impose reasonable conditions on any
special event permit holder as a condition of permit approval, including change
of venue, requirements that subject the permit holder to reimburse the town for
expenses, and any other conditions deemed appropriate by the Event Coordinator.
§ 132.04 ISSUANCE OF A SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT DOES NOT OBLIGATE TOWN SERVICES.
   Issuance of a special event permit under this chapter does not obligate or
require the town to provide town services, equipment, supplies or personnel in
support of a special event. Should it be determined that town services are
needed to produce an event, the applicant shall be required to reimburse the
town for the services as a condition of permit approval.
§ 132.05 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as provided elsewhere in this chapter, any person or entity who
conducts, promotes or manages a special event shall first obtain a special
event permit from the town and display, or be able to produce, the permit upon
request of any party.
§ 132.06 EXCEPTIONS TO SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   Exempted activities:
   (A)   Parades, athletic events or other special events that are sponsored or
conducted in full by the town;
   (B)   Funeral processions organized by a funeral director licensed by the
State of North Carolina;
   (C)   Gatherings of 75 or fewer people on public property, unless the
gathering impacts a roadway; alcoholic beverages will be sold, possessed, or
consumed; or merchandise or services will be offered for sale or trade to the
public;
   (D)   Temporary sales conducted by businesses, such as holiday sales, grand
opening sales, sidewalk sales, anniversary sales, etc.;
   (E)   Garage sales, yard sales, attic sales, rummage sales, lemonade stands
and charity car washes;
   (F)   Private events held entirely on private property that do not involve
the use of, or have an impact on, public property, public roadways or public
facilities and that do not require the provision of town public safety
services, in which case a special event permit is required;
   (G)   Activities conducted by a governmental agency acting within the scope
of its authority; and
   (H)   Lawful picketing on sidewalks.
§ 132.07 NO WAIVERS PERMITTED.
   All event organizers whether exempt from the special event permit
requirements or not, are required to comply fully with all local, state and
federal laws and regulations, including any permit requirements that may be
required separately from this chapter. The issuance of a special event permit
pursuant to this chapter does not waive any other requirements; including, but
not limited to: NCDOT road closure permits, local and/or state ABC Permits,
Health Department permits, Fire Marshal or Fire Department permits or
inspections, building permits, zoning permits, etc.
§ 132.08 EVENT ORGANIZER RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the event organizer to determine if any
other permits may be required and to obtain and comply with those permits. A
copy of any permit required to be obtained from any other agency shall be
provided to the town as a part of the special event permit application process.
Failure to comply with this section shall be grounds for denial or revocation
of a special event permit issued under this chapter.
§ 132.09 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT: TIME REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Special event; non-expressive activity.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, application for non-
expressive special events must be received by the Chief of Police no less than
90 days in advance of event. This requirement applies to both new and recurring
events.
      (2)   Upon good cause shown, and provided that there are no significant
risks or burden to the town, the Chief of Police may, at his or her discretion,
consider a shorter application period.
      (3)   Event organizer may be required to meet with the Chief of Police or
assigned event coordinator prior to issuance of a permit. Failure to comply
with this section shall be grounds for denial or revocation of a special event
permit issued under this chapter.
   (B)   Special event; expressive activity; free speech.
      (1)   An application for an expressive activity special event permit
shall be filed with the Chief of Police no less than ten calendar days before
the time the event is scheduled to be conducted.
      (2)   Upon good cause shown, and provided that there are no significant
risks or burden to the town, the Chief of Police may, at his or her discretion,
consider a shorter application period.
      (3)   Event organizer may be required to meet with the Chief of Police or
assigned event coordinator prior to issuance of a permit. Failure to comply
with this subsection shall be grounds for denial or revocation of a special
event permit issued under this chapter.
§ 132.10 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT: FORM AND CONTENT.
   (A)   Applications for a permit requesting permission to hold a special
event shall be filed by a natural person (no corporations or business names are
to be used), shall be submitted only in a form prescribed by the Chief of
Police and shall be accompanied by an application fee, if applicable, in an
amount established by the Board of Commissioners not to exceed the reasonable
costs of town services required.
   (B)   An application for a special event permit is deemed complete when the
applicant has provided all of the information required by this chapter,
including any additional information required by the Chief of Police or the
assigned event coordinator. This information may include, but is not limited
to:
      (1)   A statement of the purpose of the special event;
      (2)   A statement of the fees to be charged for the special event,
including admissions tax documentation;
      (3)   A written and sketched description of where the event is to be
located;
      (4)   Dates and times when the special event is to be conducted;
      (5)   The approximate times when assembly for, and disbanding of, the
special event is to take place;
      (6)   The proposed locations of the assembly or production area;
      (7)   If a route of any kind is involved, the specific proposed route
including a written description and map of said route;
      (8)   The proposed site of any reviewing stands;
      (9)   The proposed site for any disbanding area;
      (10)   Proposed alternate routes, sites or time when applicable;
      (11)   A good faith estimate of the number of persons, animals or
vehicles that will participate in and attend the event, including how those
estimates were derived;
      (12)   The kinds of animals, if any, anticipated to be part of the
special event;
      (13)   A description of the types of vehicles to be used in the special
event;
      (14)   The number of bands or other musical units, and the nature of any
equipment to be used to produce sounds or noise;
      (15)   The number and location of portable sanitation facilities;
      (16)   The number and location of waste receptacles, including schedule
for emptying and disposal/pick-up;
      (17)   Other equipment or services necessary to conduct the special event
with due regard for participants and public health and safety;
      (18)   The number of persons proposed or required to monitor or
facilitate the special event, and provide spectator or participant control and
direction for special events using town streets, sidewalks or facilities;
      (19)   Provisions for first aid or emergency medical services, or both,
based on special event risk factors;
      (20)   Insurance and surety bond information;
      (21)   Any special or unusual requirements that may be imposed or created
by virtue of the proposed special event activity;
      (22)   The marketing plan with proposed timelines associated with
marketing the activity to the general public;
      (23)   Event timeline documenting all activities from event set-up to
event tear-down;
      (24)   Acknowledgment of awareness of the Town of Cramerton’s noise
ordinance and agreement to comply; and
      (25)   Any other information required by the Chief of Police or event
coordinator.
§ 132.11 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT: APPROVAL AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Permit approval. The Chief of Police may issue a special event permit
when, based upon the completed application and meeting with the event
organizer, it is determined that all of the conditions listed in this section
have been met:
      (1)   The special event organizer agrees to provide funding for all town-
provided services and equipment, if required and determined by the sound
direction of the Chief of Police, to adequately provide for public safety
during the event;
      (2)   The special event will not substantially interrupt public
transportation or other vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the area of its
route;
      (3)   The special event will not cause an irresolvable conflict with
construction or development in the public right-of-way or at a public facility;
      (4)   The special event will not block traffic lanes or close streets
during peak commuter hours (weekdays between 6:30 a.m. until 9:00 a.m. and 5:30
p.m. until 7:00 p.m.);
      (5)   The special event will not require the diversion of police
employees from their normal duties;
      (6)   The concentration of persons, animals or vehicles will not unduly
interfere with the movement of police, fire, medical or other emergency
vehicles on the streets;
      (7)   The special event will move from its assembly location to its
disbanding location expeditiously and without stopping en route;
      (8)   The special event will not substantially interfere with any other
special event for which a permit has already been granted, any town sponsored
event that did not require a permit, with the provision of town services in
support of other scheduled special events or any unscheduled governmental
functions;
      (9)   The special event will not have significant adverse impact upon
residential or business access and traffic circulation in the same general
venue;
      (10)   The special event will not cause undo interference with the
peaceful enjoyment of neighboring properties;
      (11)   The special event will not violate any other ordinance or
regulation not specifically exempted and noted on the special event permit.
   (B)   Conditions for approval. The Chief of Police or his or her assigned
event coordinator may condition the issuance of a special event permit by
imposing reasonable requirements concerning the time, place and manner of the
event, and such requirements as are deemed necessary to protect the safety and
rights of persons and property as well as the control of traffic. A special
event permit may include, but is not limited to, the following information or
conditions:
      (1)   An alternate location of the special event venue, which may be
identified by a map attached to the special event permit;
      (2)   An alternate date, assembly area, time for assembly and starting
time of the special event;
      (3)   The specific route plan of the special event;
      (4)   The minimum and maximum speeds of the event;
      (5)   The number and types of persons, animals, vehicles and structures
at the event; the number of bands, other musical units, equipment capable of
producing sound, limitations pertaining to noise abatement, approval and/or
inspection of floats, structures, decorated vehicles, etc. for safety purposes;
      (6)   The portion of the street(s) and sidewalk(s) that is/are to be
occupied by the special event;
      (7)   The number and location of traffic controllers, monitors, other
personnel and equipment, and barricades to be furnished by the special event
organizer;
      (8)   The area and time for disbanding; and
      (9)   Such other information and conditions as are deemed reasonably
necessary for the conduct of the special event and the enforcement of this
chapter, including the requirement for a professional event management company
to produce an event, or for the on-site presence of the event organizer, or its
designated representative, for all special event coordination and management
purposes.
§ 132.12 DENIAL OF A SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Reasons for denial. The Chief of Police may deny a special event
permit if:
      (1)   The applicant fails to provide for sufficient number of personnel,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Trained and certified traffic controllers;
         (b)   Monitors for crowd control and safety; or
         (c)   On-site event organizers available throughout the event.
      (2)   The applicant fails to provide sufficient safety, health or
sanitation equipment services or facilities that are reasonably necessary to
ensure that the special event will be conducted with due regard for safety of
the public;
      (3)   The applicant fails to provide sufficient off-site parking, shuttle
service or both when required to minimize any substantial adverse impact on
general parking and traffic circulation in the vicinity of the special event;
      (4)   The applicant demonstrates and inability or unwillingness to
conduct a special event pursuant to the terms and conditions of this chapter,
or has fail to submit application information in a timely and sufficient manner
to show such compliance;
      (5)   The applicant has failed to conduct a previously authorized or
exempted special event in accordance with law or the terms of a permit, or
both;
      (6)   The applicant has not obtained the approval of any other public
agency within whose jurisdiction the special event or portion thereof will
occur;
      (7)   The applicant has failed to pay all fees due from previous special
events;
      (8)   The applicant fails to cooperate fully with the requirements of the
Chief of Police or the assigned event coordinator, including the timely
submittal of required documents or general cooperation with town staff; or
      (9)   The applicant has failed to comply with any term of this chapter or
with any condition of a special event permit previously issued to the
applicant.
   (B)   Superseding reasons for denial. Even when all conditions are met for
approval of a special event permit, the permit may be denied when in the
informed judgment of the Chief of Police or event coordinator:
      (1)   The special event will create the imminent possibility of violent
disorderly conduct likely to endanger public safety or to result in significant
property damage;
      (2)   The special event will violate public health or safety laws; or
      (3)   The special event fails to conform to the requirements of law or
duly-established town policy.
§ 132.13 REVOCATION OF SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Procedural revocation. The Chief of Police may issue a written
revocation of an issued special event permit if any of the following occur:
      (1)   The applicant fails to meet any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   The applicant fails to meet any permit conditions imposed by the
Chief of Police or event coordinator;
      (3)   If any information submitted by the applicant is determined to be
false or has in any way been misrepresented by the applicant;
      (4)   If any information submitted by the applicant is determined to be
incorrect or that misinformation substantially affects or threatens to
substantially affect the planning or safety of the special event; or
      (5)   If any previously met conditions required by this chapter, or
imposed by the Chief of Police or event coordinator, fail to remain in
compliance during the period from permit issuance date until the end of the
event period.
   (B)   Emergency revocation. The senior ranking police officer may revoke a
special event permit immediately when it is determined by that officer that
continuing the permitted event could unreasonably endanger the safety of the
public, and may take reasonable steps to achieve the cessation of the unsafe
event.
§ 132.14 APPEALS.
   Upon denial of a special event permit pursuant to this chapter, the Chief of
Police shall notify the applicant in writing as soon as is reasonably
practicable. The denial or procedural revocation of a special event permit may
be appealed to the Code Administrator. An emergency revocation of a special
event permit is not eligible for appeal. Eligible appeals must be made in
writing and must detail how the decision to deny the permit was not consistent
with the provisions of this chapter. The decision of the Code Administrator is
final.
§ 132.15 COST RECOVERY FOR SPECIAL EVENTS.
   If town resources are determined necessary by the Chief of Police for a
special event permitted pursuant to this chapter or if town resources must be
utilized for any event whether permitted or not, the event organizer shall be
responsible for all town costs related to the event as follows:
   (A)   Permitted special events. When an event is permitted under this
chapter, the event organizer shall be responsible for hourly personnel costs,
for all town employees deemed necessary for the event, at a rate provided to
the event organizer during the permit process. In addition, the event organizer
shall be responsible for any cost(s) that may arise due to unexpected high
attendance or unforeseen emergencies.
   (B)   Exempted special events. When an event is exempted pursuant to this
chapter and the exemption is disqualified for any reason, the event organizer
shall be responsible for all expenses related to equipment and personnel
incurred by the town, if any, including any overtime, extra-duty pay or
specialty equipment that may have been required.
   (C)   Illegal special events. When an event organizer fails to obtain a
special event permit required by this chapter, the organizer of the event shall
be responsible for all expenses related to the mitigating of special event
public safety concerns, and may be subject to both civil penalties and criminal
charges under this chapter.
   (D)   Event clean-up. Should any special event, permitted or not, require
resources of the town to clean the area of the event, dispose of trash, remove
debris, etc. after disbandment of the event the event organizer shall be
responsible for all personnel, equipment and disposal charges incurred to the
town as a result of returning the event location to its pre-event state.
§ 132.16 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   As a condition precedent to the issuance of a permit authorizing a
special event, the applicant shall obtain public liability insurance that shall
provide “occurrence” coverage against liabilities for death, personal injury or
property damage arising out of, or in any way connected with, such event. Such
insurance shall be in the amount of at least $1,000,000 combined single limit,
and shall name the Town of Cramerton, the town’s officers, employees and agents
as additional insureds under the coverage afforded. In addition, such insurance
shall be primary and non-contributing with respect to other insurance available
to the town and shall include a severability of interest (cross liability)
clause. Proof of such insurance shall be filed with the special event
application.
   (B)   Waiver of insurance requirements; free speech. The insurance required
by this section shall be waived or modified by the Chief of Police for any
permit authorizing a special event involving an exercise of free speech rights,
if it would create an undue burden on such exercise.
   (C)   Waiver of insurance requirements; other. Any applicant for a special
event permit, that is not a free speech event, may request and obtain a waiver
of this insurance requirement from the office of the Town Manager. The
applicant shall be required to submit this letter of waiver from the Town
Manager with the special event application. The decision to waive the special
event insurance requirement shall be made at the Town Manager’s sole discretion
and may not be appealed.
§ 132.17 INDEMNITY AND WAIVERS.
   (A)   The applicant/event organizer/special event permittee hereby shall
assume all risks incident to, or in connection with, the permitted activity and
shall be solely responsible for damage or injury, of whatever kind or nature,
to person(s) or property, directly or indirectly, arising out of or in
connection with the permitted activity or the conduct of applicant’s operation.
   (B)   The applicant hereby expressly agrees to defend and hold harmless the
town from any penalties for violation of law, ordinance or regulation affecting
its activity and from any and all claims, suits, losses, damages or injuries
directly or indirectly arising out of or in connection with the permitted
activity or conduct of its operation, or resulting from the negligence or
intentional acts or omissions of the applicant or its officers, agents or
employees.
§ 132.18 SPECIAL EVENTS INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The issuance of a special event permit by the town does not allow the event
organizer to permit the possession, consumption or sale of alcoholic beverages
at the event. In order to allow the possession, consumption or sale at a
special event within the town, the event organizer must:
   (A)   Obtain a limited special occasion permit from the town; and
   (B)    Obtain any necessary permit(s) from the NCABC Board. The fact that
the event organizer may already possess an ABC permit(s) from the NCABC Board
does not exempt the organizer from obtaining a state permit for the specific
purpose of the special event for which they have applied for a permit.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   HOUSING REGULATIONS
      
152.   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   FLOOD HAZARD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Application of title; extraterritorial jurisdiction
   
150.02   Unsafe buildings or structures
   
150.03   Moving of buildings; permit prerequisite
   
150.04   Numbering buildings or dwellings
Adoption of Regulatory Codes by Reference
   
150.15   Scope
   
150.16   Building Code adopted
   
150.17   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.18   Mechanical Code adopted
   
150.19   Administrative Code adopted
   
150.20   Energy Conservation Code adopted
   
150.21   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
150.22   Fuel Gas Code adopted
   
150.23   Compliance with codes
   
150.24   Non-compliance with codes
   
150.25   Copies of codes filed with Town Clerk
Code Enforcement Unit
   
150.40   Creation; appointment of Code Enforcement Officer; composition of unit
   
150.41   Duties; responsibilities
   
150.42   Conflicts of interest
   
150.43   Building permits
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 APPLICATION OF TITLE; EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   (A)   Except for
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances and §
150.02 of this chapter, this chapter shall be applicable not only within the
corporate limits of the town, but also within the boundaries of its
extraterritorial jurisdiction established by the town for the enforcement of
municipal regulatory powers conferred by G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 19.
   (B)   
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances and §
150.02 of this chapter shall be applicable only within the corporate limits of
the town.
§ 150.02 UNSAFE BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It is hereby found and declared that there exists in the town
structures and buildings, other than buildings utilized for housing of humans,
(hereinafter called buildings) which are especially dangerous to life because
of defects in the buildings increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities; or because of bad condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective
construction, decay, unsafe wiring or heating system, inadequate means of
egress; or because of their violation of the minimum standards prescribed in
the regulatory codes adopted by the town and appearing in  §§
151.015 through
151.022 of this chapter; or because of other conditions rendering the buildings
unsafe or unsanitary, and dangerous and otherwise inimical to the welfare of
the citizens of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the town, it is the purpose of this section to provide procedures for the
repair, closing or demolition of the buildings set forth in division (A) above.
   (C)   No provision of this section shall be held to deprive any federal or
state agency, or any municipal authority having jurisdiction, of any power or
authority which it had on the effective date of this section or of any remedy
then existing for the enforcement of its orders, nor shall it deprive any
individual or corporation of its legal rights as provided by law.
§ 150.03 MOVING OF BUILDINGS; PERMIT PREREQUISITE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move a building of any kind
without first obtaining a permit from the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with any of the
provisions or conditions of the permit.
§ 150.04 NUMBERING BUILDINGS OR DWELLINGS.
   The owner of each building or dwelling shall apply to the duly authorized
government official for a street number to be affixed to the building or
dwelling within 30 days from the completion thereof. Upon obtaining the street
number, the same shall be affixed to the building or dwelling in a conspicuous
place visible from the street, in figures at least three inches high. The
numbers shall also be placed against a contrasting background, or the letters
themselves shall have reflective qualities. It shall be unlawful for any person
to fail to obtain the number, to fail or refuse to affix the same in a proper
size, or to fail or neglect to display the same in a conspicuous place in front
of his or her building or dwelling.
ADOPTION OF REGULATORY CODES BY REFERENCE
§ 150.15 SCOPE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter and of the regulatory codes herein
adopted shall apply to the following:
      (1)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
      (2)   The installation, erection, alternation, repair, use and
maintenance of plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains,
waste and vent systems, hot and cold water supply systems and all fixtures and
appurtenances thereof;
      (3)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance
of mechanical systems consisting of heating ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel-burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
      (4)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance
of electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
   (B)   The adoption of this subchapter and the codes herein adopted by
reference shall constitute a resolution within the meaning of G.S. § 143-138
(e), making the regulatory codes herein adopted applicable to dwellings and
outbuildings used in connection therewith, to apartment buildings used
exclusively as a residence for not more than two families and to temporary
buildings or sheds used exclusively for construction purposes, not exceeding 12
feet in any direction and not used for living quarters.
§ 150.16 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina State Building Code, as enacted and published by the
state’s Building Code Board and as modified by the accumulative supplements
thereto covering amendments passed and ratified, is adopted by reference as
fully as though set forth herein as the Building Code of the town to the extent
the code is applicable for safe and stable design, methods of construction,
minimum standards and use of materials in buildings or structures hereafter
erected, enlarged, altered, repaired or otherwise constructed or reconstructed.
§ 150.17 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Building Code, as enacted and published by the state’s
Building Code Board and as modified by the cumulative supplements thereto and
the amendments adopted by the state’s Building Code Board, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Plumbing Code for the
town.
§ 150.18 MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Building Code, as enacted and published by the state’s
Building Code Board and as modified by the cumulative supplements thereto and
the amendments adopted by the state’s Building Code Board, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Mechanical Code for the
town.
§ 150.19 ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Building Code, as enacted and published by the state’s
Building Code Board and as modified by the cumulative supplements thereto and
the amendments adopted by the state’s Building Code Board, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Administrative Code for
the town.
§ 150.20 ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Building Code, as enacted and published by the state’s
Building Code Board and as modified by the cumulative supplements thereto and
the amendments adopted by the state’s Building Code Board, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Energy Conservation Code
for the town.
§ 150.21 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Building Code, as enacted and published by the state’s
Building Code Board and as modified by the cumulative supplements thereto and
the amendments adopted by the state’s Building Code Board, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Fire Prevention Code for
the town.
§ 150.22 FUEL GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   The North Carolina Building Code, as enacted and published by the state’s
Building Code Board and as modified by the cumulative supplements thereto and
the amendments adopted by the state’s Building Code Board, is adopted by
reference as fully as though set forth herein as the Fuel Gas Code for the
town.
§ 150.23 COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of the North Carolina Building Code.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code.
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel-burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Mechanical Code.
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Building
Code.
§ 150.24 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH CODES.
   The Code Enforcement Officer may deal with any building or structure which
does not, in his or her opinion, comply with the requirements, minimum
standards and other provisions of §
150.23 of this chapter as follows: any non-complying building within the
corporate limits of the town may be ordered by the Code Enforcement Officer to
be brought into compliance with the requirements, minimum standards and other
provisions of §
150.23 of this chapter, or upon failure of the owner to bring the building or
structure into compliance, may in some cases be ordered removed or demolished,
all according to the following terms, conditions and procedures.
   (A)   When non-complying buildings are used for human housing, the entire
provisions of the Minimum Standard Housing Code in
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances shall apply. A building found pursuant to
the procedures of the minimum housing standards to be non-compliant with the
requirements, minimum standards and other provisions of §
150.23 of this chapter is deemed to be unfit for human habitation within the
spirit of the minimum housing standards.
   (B)   For all other non-complying buildings, the provisions of condemnation
of buildings and structures other than housing shall apply found in
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances.
§ 150.25 COPIES OF CODES FILED WITH TOWN CLERK.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all adopted amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk. The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and
amendments.
CODE ENFORCEMENT UNIT
§ 150.40 CREATION; APPOINTMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER; COMPOSITION OF
UNIT.
   There is created a unit of the Support Services Division of the town’s
Police Department to be known as the Code Enforcement Unit. The Code
Enforcement Unit shall be headed by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
The Chief of Police shall appoint the Code Enforcement Officer who shall be
under the immediate direction and control of the Chief of Police or his or her
designee. The Code Enforcement Unit shall be composed of the personnel as the
Town Manager may from time to time authorize.
§ 150.41 DUTIES; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The duties and responsibilities of the Code Enforcement Officer and of
the inspectors therein shall be to enforce within the town and the
extraterritorial area provided in this chapter, all state and local laws
relating to the following:
      (1)   The construction of buildings and other structures;
      (2)   The installation of such facilities as plumbing systems and air
conditioning systems; and
      (3)   Other matters that may from time to time be specified by the Chief
of Police.
   (B)   These duties may include, but not be limited to, the receipt of
applications for permits, the making of any necessary inspections, the issuance
or denial of certificates of compliance, the issuance of orders to correct
violations, the recommendation of the Town Board to institute judicial actions
against actual or threatened violations, the keeping of adequate records and
the taking of any other actions that may be required in order to adequately
enforce those laws.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer is granted all power necessary to carry
out the mandates of the Town Board. This shall include in addition to any
incidental powers necessary, any specific powers which may from time to time be
granted by the Town Board in any specific ordinances.
§ 150.42 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No member of the Code Enforcement Unit shall engage in any work that
constitutes a violation of any applicable conflict of interest law.
§ 150.43 BUILDING PERMITS
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct any new building, addition
or alteration to any building without first securing a building permit from
county’s Building Inspections Department.
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific penalty
is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the penalty contained in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
CHAPTER 151: HOUSING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Finding; purpose
   
151.002   Jurisdiction
   
151.003   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.004   Implementation/effective date
   
151.005   Administrative liability
   
151.006   Definitions
Minimum Standards
   
151.015   Minimum standards of fitness for dwellings and dwelling units
   
151.016   Structural condition
   
151.017   Basic equipment and facilities
   
151.018   Ventilation
   
151.019   Space, use and location
   
151.020   Safe and sanitary maintenance
   
151.021   Control of insects, rodents and infestations
   
151.022   Minimum standards applicable to rooming-houses; exceptions
Inspections; Appeals
   
151.035   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
   
151.036   Duties of Inspector
   
151.037   Powers of Inspector
   
151.038   Inspections; duty of owners and occupants
   
151.039   Administrative procedure
   
151.040   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
151.041   In rem action by Inspector; placarding
   
151.042   Costs; a lien on premises
   
151.043   Alternative remedies
   
151.044   Zoning Board of Adjustment
Abandoned and Unsafe Buildings
   
151.055   Abandoned structures
   
151.056   Unsafe buildings
Minimum Standards Applicable to Lodging Establishments
   
151.085   Applicability
   
151.086   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities
   
151.087   Interior space dimensions
   
151.088   Sanitary conditions
   
151.089   Sanitary facilities
   
151.090   Means of egress
   
151.091   Fire resistance
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 FINDING; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1201, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the town dwellings which are unfit for human habitation due to
dilapidation, defects increasing the hazards of fire, accidents and other
calamities, lack of ventilation, light and sanitary facilities, and other
conditions rendering the dwellings unsafe or unsanitary, or dangerous and
detrimental to the health, safety, morals, or otherwise inimical to the welfare
of the residents of the town.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the town as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160D, Article 12, it is the purpose of
this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the initial and
continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as expressly
authorized by G.S. § 160D-1205.
   (C)   The purpose of this chapter is to arrest, remedy and prevent the decay
and deterioration of places of habitation and to eliminate blighted
neighborhoods by providing standards for places of habitation for the
protection of the life, health, safety, welfare and property of the general
public and owners and occupants of places of habitation.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the sections of this
chapter are applicable to all dwellings, rooming-houses and lodging
establishments within the jurisdiction of the town regardless of when the units
were constructed, altered, repaired or improved.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.002 JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be effective within the corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.003 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
town, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the town shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.004 IMPLEMENTATION/EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This code shall become effective upon approval by the governing body of the
town.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.005 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local law or ordinance, no
town officer, agent or employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties under this chapter unless he or she acted with actual malice.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts or in the exit facilities; an enlargement, whether by
extending on a side or by increasing in height; or the moving from one location
or position to another. The term ALTER in its various moods and tenses and its
participle refers to the making of an ALTERATION.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms occupied or which is intended or
designed to be occupied as the home or residence of one individual, family or
household for housekeeping purposes.
   APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or mode of construction, means
APPROVED by the Inspector under this chapter or by other authority designated
by law to give approval in the matter in question.
   AREA.
      (1)   As applied to the dimensions of a building, the maximum horizontal
projected area of the building.
      (2)   As applied to the dimensions of a room, the total square footage of
floor area between finished walls.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having direct access to light and air from windows located above the level of
the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons which has enclosed walls for 50% or more of its perimeter. The term
BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the phrase “or part thereof.”
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, having
an inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly
below the level of the adjoining ground.
   CLOSE. Securing the building so that unauthorized persons cannot gain
entrance to the building.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person who has been designated, in writing,
by the Town Manager to enforce this chapter.
   DEMOLISH. The demolition and removal of the entire building, leaving the
property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets which may
retain water.
   DETERIORATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and can be repaired,
altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards established by
this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as determined by
finding of the Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED. A dwelling is unfit for human habitation and cannot be
repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or the public.
   INSPECTOR. The Cramerton Town Manager or his or her designee.
   LODGING ESTABLISHMENT. Any hotel, motel, inn, tourist home or other place
providing lodging accommodations for pay. For purposes of this chapter, the
term LODGING ESTABLISHMENT does not include any hotel, motel, inn, tourist home
or other place providing lodging accommodations for pay that is licensed or
permitted by the state or the County Department of Public Health pursuant to
G.S. Chapter 130A.
   LODGING UNIT. A room or suite in any hotel, inn, tourist home or other place
providing lodging accommodations for pay designed for the temporary housing of
paying guests. For purposes of this chapter, a does not include a room in or
suite in any hotel, inn, tourist home or other place providing lodging
accommodations for pay designed for the temporary housing of paying guests that
is licensed or permitted by the state or the County Department of Public Health
pursuant to G.S. Chapter 130A.
   MANUFACTURED HOME and MOBILE HOME. A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having actual possession of a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   PIER. A masonry support extending from the ground and footing to and
supporting the building or portion thereof. PIER sizes and spacing shall
conform to the specifications of the State Building Code.
   PLACE OF HABITATION. Any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming-house, rooming
unit, lodging establishment or lodging unit.
   PLUMBING. Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment:
gas pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical garbage disposal
units (mechanical sink grinder), waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed
dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing
machines, catch basin, drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures,
together with all connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. The governing body of the town or any officer who is in
charge of any department or branch of the government of the town or of county
or the State of North Carolina relating to health, fire, building regulations
or other activities concerning dwellings in the town.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The officer or officers who are authorized by ordinances
adopted hereunder to exercise the powers prescribed by the ordinances and by
North Carolina General Statute.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Space within any place of habitation which is open to use by
the general public.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   ROOMING-HOUSE. Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass crockery and dust.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code or any
superseding regulation.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter, which is designed to be transportable, and which is not attached to
the ground, to another structure or to any utilities system on the same
premises for more than 30 consecutive days.
   TENANT. Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, occupies
a residential building under a lease or holds a legal tenancy in a building.
   TOWN. The Town of Cramerton, located in Gaston County, North Carolina.
   UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION. Conditions exist in a dwelling which violate or
do not comply with one or more of the minimum standards of fitness or one or
more of the requirements established by this chapter.
   MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS. Whenever words “dwelling,” “dwelling unit,”
“rooming-house,” “rooming unit” or “premises” are used in this chapter, they
shall be construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part
thereof.”
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
MINIMUM STANDARDS
§ 151.015 MINIMUM STANDARDS OF FITNESS FOR DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS.
   Every dwelling and dwelling unit used as a human habitation, or held out for
use as a human habitation, shall comply with all of the minimum standards of
fitness for human habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.016 through
151.021. No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for
occupancy or use as a human habitation, any dwelling or dwelling unit which
does not comply with all of the minimum standards of fitness for human
habitation and all of the requirements of §§
151.016 through
151.021.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.016 STRUCTURAL CONDITION.
   (A)   Walls or partitions or supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not excessively list, lean or buckle and shall
not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks
which might admit rodents. Ceilings shall conform to the following.
      (1)   There shall be no joists or beams which are decayed, broken,
sagging or improperly supported at the ends.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for ceiling joists, providing they show signs of
sagging and being weak, shall comply with the requirements of the State
Building Code.
      (3)   Maximum spans for ceiling joists, providing they show signs of
being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State
Building Code.
      (4)   There shall be no holes or excessive cracks which permit air and
dust to penetrate rooms.
      (5)   There shall be no loose plaster, boards, gypsum wallboard or other
ceiling finish.
      (6)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper, highly combustible or
improper ceiling finish; all ceiling materials shall be of the same or similar
quality and material.
      (7)   Ceiling joists and beams shall be structurally sound and not likely
to cause structural weakness in the future.
   (B)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and strength to
be reasonably safe for the purpose used. Floors shall conform to the following.
      (1)   There shall be no decayed, termite-damaged, fire-damaged, broken,
overloaded or sagging sills.
      (2)   Sills shall be properly supported and reasonably level.
      (3)   Joists and beams shall not be overloaded, sagging or broken and
shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause structural weakness in the
future.
      (4)   Maximum spans for floor joist, beams and sills, providing they show
signs of being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the
State Building Code.
      (5)   Flooring shall be weather-tight without holes or excessive cracks
which permit air to penetrate rooms.
      (6)   Flooring shall be reasonably smooth and not decayed, fire damaged
or worn through.
      (7)   There shall be no loose flooring.
      (8)   Floors shall be reasonably level.
      (9)   Floor covering or finishing shall be reasonably smooth, weather-
tight and not worn through.
   (C)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged so as to dangerously reduce their intended
load bearing characteristics. Foundations shall conform to the following.
      (1)   Beneath the building there shall be firm ground, which is
reasonably dry, properly drained and no water running under the building.
      (2)   There shall be sound footings, adequate bearing.
      (3)   There shall be sound piers, no loose mortar or masonry.
      (4)   There shall be no piers in which the plumb-line from the top center
falls outside the middle one-third of the pier base.
      (5)   There shall be no isolated solid masonry piers exceeding in height
ten times the least dimension of the pier.
      (6)   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers.
      (7)   There shall be masonry underpinning on all dwelling units with
ventilation as required by the State Building Code.
   (D)   Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or appurtenances shall
be maintained in a condition that they will not fail or collapse.
      (1)   Porches shall conform to the following.
         (a)   The floor, ceiling and roof shall be equal to requirements set
forth in this section, except sills, joists and floors need not be level if
providing drainage of floors; floors need not be weather-tight; the ceiling
height may be seven feet; and the attic need not be vented.
         (b)   Every porch, terrace or entrance platform 30 inches or more
above the adjacent finished grade shall be equipped with railings or guards not
less than 36 inches high, unless other effective barriers provide adequate
safety. Guard opening limitations shall conform to the requirements of the
State Building Code.
         (c)   If post and railings are provided, they shall be structurally
sound and not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (2)   Stairs and steps shall conform to the following.
         (a)   Stairs and steps shall be free of holes, grooves and cracks
large enough to constitute accident hazards.
         (b)   Stairwells and flights of stairs more than four risers high
shall have rails not less than two feet six inches measured vertically from the
nose of the treads to the top of the rail.
         (c)   Every rail shall be firmly fastened and maintained in good
condition.
         (d)   No flight of stairs shall be settled more than one inch out of
its intended position or pulled away from supporting or adjacent structures.
         (e)   Supports shall not sag and shall be structurally sound and not
likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
         (f)   Every stair riser shall be reasonably uniform in height, and
treads shall be sound and securely fastened in position and strong enough to
bear a concentrated load of at least 300 pounds without danger of breaking
through.
   (E)   Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be
provided.
   (F)   Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms, closets and hallways shall
be finished of suitable materials, which will, by use of reasonable household
methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and shall be maintained in such a
manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain reasonable privacy between
various spaces. Interior walls shall conform to the following.
      (1)   Interior finish shall be free of holes and excessive cracks which
permit air to penetrate rooms and, if painted or papered, shall be free of
chips or excessive peeling.
      (2)   There shall be no walls in which the plumb-line from the top center
of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along the wall.
      (3)   There shall be no loose plaster, loose boards or other loose wall
materials.
      (4)   There shall be no cardboard, newspaper or highly combustible or
improper wall finish; all wall materials shall be of the same or similar
quality and material.
      (5)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State Building
Code.
      (6)   Studs shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause
structural weakness in the future.
      (7)   There shall be no broken or cracked studs or other structural
members.
   (G)   The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement walls, floors, and all
doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be constructed and maintained so
as to be weather and watertight. Roofs shall conform to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no rafters which are decayed, broken or improperly
supported at the ends.
      (2)   No rafters shall be seriously damaged by fire.
      (3)   Rafters shall be properly braced and tied four feet on center
maximum.
      (4)   The attic shall be ventilated as required by the State Building
Code.
      (5)   Sheathing shall not be loose and shall be structurally sound and
not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (6)   There shall be no loose roof covering, no holes, and no leaks
causing damage to the structure or rooms.
      (7)   There shall be a minimum of Class C roof covering.
      (8)   There shall be proper flashing at walls or chimneys.
   (H)   There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are in danger of
falling, or in a condition or location as to constitute a fire hazard.
   (I)   There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood floors on the
ground.
   (J)   Exterior walls shall conform to the following:
      (1)   There shall be no wall in which the plumb-line from the top center
of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along the wall.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State Building
Code.
      (3)   Studs shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause
structural weakness in the future.
      (4)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
      (5)   All siding shall be weather-tight, with no holes or excessive
cracks or decayed boards, or siding material which permit air to penetrate
rooms.
      (6)   There shall be no loose siding.
      (7)   There shall be no deterioration because of lack of preventive
maintenance consisting of painting, waterproofing and repair.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.017 BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   Plumbing system.
      (1)   Each dwelling unit shall be connected to a potable water supply and
to the public sewer or other approved sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, water closet and adequate supply of both cold and hot
water. All water shall be supplied through an approved pipe distribution system
connected to an approved potable water supply.
      (3)   All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a state of good repair
and in good working order.
      (4)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same. The water closet and tub or
shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the user.
      (5)   All plumbing to be installed shall be installed in accordance with
the State Building Code.
      (6)   All plumbing shall be connected to the town sanitary sewer system
where available or to another approved system.
      (7)   All fixtures shall be operable.
      (8)   There shall be no broken water closet bowls.
      (9)   Water closets shall not be loose or leaking.
      (10)   No leaks shall be in a shower stall floor and/or wall.
      (11)   There shall be adequate facilities for furnishing hot water to
each tub or shower, lavatory and kitchen sink.
      (12)   There shall be installed a potable water supply inside the
building for each dwelling unit.
      (13)   There shall be installed a water closet, tub or shower, lavatory
and sink for each dwelling unit. The kitchen sink shall be at least 12 inches
by 16 inches by six inches.
      (14)   There shall be separate toilet facilities for each dwelling unit.
      (15)   Toilet and bathing facilities shall be protected from the weather.
      (16)   All water piping shall be protected from freezing by proper
installation in protected space.
      (17)   Soil and water pipes shall be supported with no broken or leaking
pipes.
      (18)   Every water closet compartment floor surface and bathroom floor
surface shall be so constructed and maintained as to be reasonably impervious
to water and so as to permit the floor to be readily kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
      (19)   A lodging unit shall not be required to have a kitchen sink, but
if the lodging unit contains a kitchen sink, it shall meet the requirements of
this section.
   (B)   Heating system.  Every building and every dwelling unit shall be
weatherproof and capable of being adequately heated, and the heating equipment
in every dwelling or dwelling unit shall be maintained in good order and
repair. Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall have facilities for providing
heat in accordance with either division (B)(1) or (B)(2) below.
      (1)   Central and electric heating systems. Every central or electric
heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all habitable
rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit to which
it is connected with a minimum temperature of 68ºF measured at a point three
feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
      (2)   Other heating facilities.  Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling and dwelling unit shall be provided with
sufficient fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby heating appliances
may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms with a minimum temperature
of 68ºF measured three feet above the floor during ordinary winter conditions.
         (a)   All electric, gas and oil heating equipment installed on the
premises shall be listed by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. or American Gas
Association and installed in accordance with the provisions of the State
Heating Code.
         (b)   There shall be no loose bricks in chimneys.
         (c)   There shall be no holes in flues.
         (d)   There shall be no hanging masonry chimneys.
         (e)   Thimbles shall be grouted in tightly.
         (f)   Thimbles shall not be broken or cracked.
         (g)   Thimbles shall be high enough for the stovepipe to rise one-
quarter inch per foot minimum.
         (h)   The hearth shall be at least 16 inches deep and eight inches
beyond each side of the fireplace opening.
         (i)   No combustible materials shall be within seven inches of the top
and seven inches of either side of the fireplace opening.
         (j)   Fireplaces shall be closed with masonry when the chimney is used
as a flue for a stove.
         (k)   A stove shall be within six feet of a thimble serving it.
         (l)   No combustible material shall be within 12 inches of a
stovepipe.
         (m)   No stovepipe shall be through combustible walls.
         (n)   In multiple dwellings and rooming-houses with central heat, the
furnace room shall be enclosed with material having at least a one-hour fire
protection rating.
         (o)   Fireplaces may be used for supplementary heating only and not
for basic heat.
   (C)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every dwelling and dwelling unit shall be wired for electric lights
and convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two
floor or wall-type electric convenience receptacles, connected in a manner
determined by the National Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every
bathroom, water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one
supplied ceiling or wall-type electric light fixture. In the event wall or
ceiling light fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each
habitable room shall contain at least three floor or wall-type electric
convenience receptacles.
      (2)   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling shall be
adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when natural daylight is not
sufficient.
      (3)   All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall be maintained
in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, without hazard to
property or person.
      (4)   In places of habitation, no receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other
fixtures shall be hanging loose.
      (5)   All switches and receptacles shall be safely operable.
      (6)   Every habitable room shall contain not less than two wall-type
electrical convenience receptacles.
      (7)   There shall be installed in every habitable room, bathroom, laundry
room, hallway, stairway and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling or wall-
type electrical light fixture; provided, further, that the ceiling light
fixture may be omitted in the living room and bedrooms, provided three
electrical convenience receptacles are installed, one of which is controlled
from a wall switch.
      (8)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
      (9)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet in
length.
      (10)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
      (11)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (12)   All wiring to be installed shall be in accordance with the
National Electrical Code.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.018 VENTILATION.
   (A)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors for adequate ventilation. At least one window in every
habitable room shall be of a size and location to allow egress by an average
adult in the event of fire or other emergency.
   (B)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened, or other device as will adequately ventilate the room.
The total openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal to at
least 45% of the minimum window area size or minimum skylight type window size
as required, or shall have other approved, equivalent ventilation.
   (C)   Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for habitable rooms, except that no window
or skylight shall be required in adequately ventilated bathrooms and water
closet rooms equipped with an approved ventilation system.
   (D)   All windows and doors opening to the outside shall be adequately
screened unless the room is served by an approved ventilating system. Screens
shall fit openings snugly, and the screen mesh shall not be torn or otherwise
defective.
   (E)   Screens shall not be permanently fixed to the window frame or sash.
   (F)   In bathrooms containing more than one water closet, the window area
shall be at least three square feet of glazed area. Where adequate windows
cannot be provided, metal ducts with at least 72 square inches in open area and
extending from the ceiling through the roof, or mechanical ventilation to the
outside, shall be provided.
   (G)   Every public hall and inside stairway in every multifamily dwelling or
place of habitation shall be adequately lighted at all times with an
illumination of at least three footcandles per square foot in the darkest
portion of the normally traveled stairs and passageways.
   (H)   All windows in dwellings and rooming-houses opening to the outside
shall be reasonably weather-tight and shall have operable locks. If the windows
in a lodging establishment are designed to open to the outside, the windows
shall be reasonably weather-tight and shall have operable locks.
   (I)   Window bars, grills or other impediments to escape in case of fire
shall not be permitted at habitable room windows, except as permitted by the
State Building Code.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.019 SPACE, USE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum room size
in each habitable room as required by the State Residential Building Code
(Volume VII of the State Building Code).
      (2)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of
habitable floor area for the first occupant, at least 100 square feet of
additional habitable area for each of the next three occupants, and at least 75
square feet of additional habitable floor area for each additional occupant.
      (3)   In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit, every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square
feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than
one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each
occupant 12 years of age and over any at least 35 square feet of floor area for
each occupant under 12 years of age.
   (B)   At least one-half of the floor area of every habitable room shall have
a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six inches.
   (C)   Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area.
However, closet area and wall area within the dwelling unit may count for not
more than 10% of the required habitable floor area. The floor area of any part
of any room where the ceiling height is less than four and one-half feet shall
not be considered as part of the floor area computing the total area of the
room to determine maximum permissible occupancy.
   (D)   No cellar shall be used for living purposes.
   (E)   No basement shall be used for living purposes unless:
      (1)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
      (2)   The total window standards, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for habitable rooms; and
      (3)   The required minimum window standards of every habitable room are
entirely above the grade adjoining the window area, except where the window or
windows face a stairwell, window well or access way.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.020 SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall, exterior
wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and rodent-proof;
shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be capable of affording
privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal
use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall shall be protected with
paint or other protective covering to prevent the entrance or penetration of
moisture or the weather. Exterior wood surfaces not inherently resistant to
deterioration shall be treated with a protective coating of paint or other
suitable preservative with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
   (B)   Interior floors, walk and ceilings.  Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition
and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting the load
which normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Floors, walls, ceilings and
fixtures shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (C)   Windows and doors.  Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight and rodent-
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
   (D)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances.  Every outside and inside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (E)   Bathroom floors. Every bathroom floor surface and water closet
compartment floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit the floor to be easily kept
in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Supplied facilities.  Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
   (G)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain thorough
drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water. Surface and
subsurface water shall be appropriately drained to protect buildings and
structures and to prevent development of stagnant ponds.
   (H)   Noxious weeds.  Every yard and all exterior property areas shall be
kept free of species of weeds or plant growth which are noxious or detrimental
to health. Yards and courts shall be kept clean and free of physical hazards,
rubbish, trash, garbage, junked vehicles, vehicle parts and other similar
material.
   (I)   Egress. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with adequate means of
egress as required by the State Residential Building Code (Volume 1-B of the
State Building Code) except that door width and size requirements shall be
deleted for secondary exits.
      (1)   There shall be two main exits, each at least 30 inches wide and six
feet eight inches high, easily accessible to the occupants of each dwelling or
dwelling unit. All exit doors must be easily operable and remotely located.
(See the State Building Code for exemptions.)
      (2)   Platforms, steps and/or handrails provided to serve exits shall be
maintained in safe condition.
      (3)   There shall be a safe, continuous and unobstructed exit from the
interior of the building to the exterior at street or grade level.
   (J)   Fences. Fences and other accessory buildings shall be maintained in
safe and substantial condition or demolished.
   (K)   Infestation.  Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
   (L)   Garbage and rubbish. There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and
methods used for the storage, handling and disposal of garbage and rubbish.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, garbage, junk vehicles, see
Chapter 91
§ 151.021 CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND INFESTATIONS.
   (A)   Rodent control.  Every basement or cellar window used or intended to
be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
provide an entry for rodents shall be supplied with screens installed or other
approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
   (B)   Infestation.
      (1)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit
shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other
pests therein or on the premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a
dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination whenever his or her dwelling unit is the only one infested.
      (2)   Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain
a dwelling in a rodent-proof or reasonably insect-proof condition,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation
exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or
public parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (C)   Rubbish storage and disposal.  Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as
required by town ordinances or any Health Department regulations, and the
owner, operator or agent in control of the dwelling or dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the removal of rubbish.
   (D)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling and every dwelling unit
shall be supplied with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an
adequate mechanical garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each
dwelling unit or an incinerator unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the
structure for the use of the occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved
outside garbage can as required by county ordinances.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.022 MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ROOMING-HOUSES; EXCEPTIONS.
   All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter, shall be applicable to rooming-houses and to
every person who operates a rooming-house, or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming-house, except as provided in the
following divisions.
   (A)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one water
closet, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be
supplied for each four rooms within a rooming-house wherever the facilities are
shared. All these facilities shall be located within the residence building
served and shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and
shall be not more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing the
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times. The required facilities shall not be located
in a cellar or uninhabitable basement.
   (B)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes.  Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
   (C)   Sanitary conditions.  The operator of every rooming-house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming-house; and he
or she shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming-house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
   (D)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin
and bathtub or shower required by division (A) of this section shall be located
within the rooming-house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and
are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common
hall and without going outside the rooming-house or through any other room
therein.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
INSPECTIONS; APPEALS
§ 151.035 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Public areas.  Every owner of a dwelling containing two or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (B)   Cleanliness. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall keep
in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit and
premises thereof which he or she occupies and controls.
   (C)   Rubbish and garbage. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit
shall dispose of all his or her rubbish and garbage in a clean and sanitary
manner by placing it in the supplied storage facilities. In all cases the owner
shall be responsible for the availability of rubbish and garbage storage
facilities.
   (D)   Supplied plumbing fixtures.  Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall
keep all supplied plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use
and operation of same.
   (E)   Care of facilities, equipment and structure. No occupant shall
willfully destroy, deface or impair any of the facilities or equipment, or any
part of the structure of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   (F)   Infestation. Every occupant of a dwelling or rooming-house shall be
responsible for the extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests
infesting the dwelling unit or rooming unit; provided, however, that the owner
shall be responsible for the extermination if as a consequence of violations of
the standards of fitness, the dwelling unit, rooming unit or lodging unit is
not reasonably impervious to pests.
   (G)   Heating. Every owner or operator shall be responsible for providing
adequate operable facilities and appliances supplying heat throughout the
dwelling unit, rooming unit or lodging unit in compliance with the standards of
fitness; every occupant shall be responsible for exercising reasonable care in
the use of the facilities and appliances.
   (H)   Care of premises. No occupant shall willfully destroy, deface or
otherwise impair any of the facilities or equipment of the owner on the
premises which he or she occupies and controls, or any part of the building
itself.
   (I)   Responsibility for violations. Every owner shall remain ultimately
responsible for violations of responsibilities imposed upon him or her by this
chapter or any other ordinance, although a similar responsibility may also be
imposed upon the occupant, and although the occupant may have agreed to bear
the responsibility imposed by ordinance upon the owner.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.036 DUTIES OF INSPECTOR.
   The Town Administrator or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
officer to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to exercise the duties
and powers herein prescribed. It shall be the duty of this officer or his or
her designee:
   (A)   To investigate the dwelling conditions, and to inspect dwellings and
dwelling units located in the town, in order to determine which dwellings and
dwelling units are unfit for human habitation, and for the purpose of carrying
out the objectives of this chapter with respect to those dwellings or dwelling
units;
   (B)   To take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect rehabilitation of
housing which is deteriorated;
   (C)   To keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter
and an inventory of those dwellings that do not meet the minimum standards of
fitness herein prescribed; and
   (D)   To perform any other duties as may be herein prescribed.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.037 POWERS OF INSPECTOR.
   The Inspector is authorized to exercise such powers as may be necessary or
convenient to carry out and effectuate the purpose and provisions of this
chapter, including the following powers in addition to others herein granted:
   (A)   To continually investigate the dwelling conditions in the town in
order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
   (B)   To administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (C)   To enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided, the entries shall be made in accordance with law and in
a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the persons in
possession; and
   (D)   To appoint and fix the duties of those officers, agents and employees
as he or she deems necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.038 INSPECTIONS; DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of making inspections, the Inspector is hereby
authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings,
dwelling units, rooming units and premises. The owner or occupant of every
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit, or the person in charge thereof, shall
give the Inspector free access to the dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit,
and its premises at all reasonable times and with one week notice for the
purposes of the inspection, examination and survey.
   (B)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall give the owner
thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of the dwelling or
dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purpose of
making repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.039 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation; notice; hearing.
      (1)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the town charging that any dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, or whenever it appears to the
Inspector, upon inspection, that any dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, he or she shall, if his or her preliminary investigation
discloses a basis for the charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner
of and parties in interest in the dwelling or dwelling unit a complaint stating
the charges and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Inspector at a place therein fixed, not less than ten days nor more than 30
days after the serving of the complaint.
      (2)   The owner and any party in interest shall have the right to file an
answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the time and place fixed in the complaint. Notice of the hearing
shall also be given to at least one of the persons signing a petition relating
to the dwelling. Any person desiring to do so may attend the hearing and give
evidence relevant to the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing
in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in hearings before the
Inspector.
   (B)   Procedure after hearing.
      (1)   After the notice and hearing, the Inspector shall state in writing
his or her determination whether the dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for
human habitation, and, if so, whether it is deteriorated or dilapidated.
      (2)   If the Inspector determines that the dwelling or dwelling unit is
deteriorated, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of that determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner thereof an order directing and requiring the owner to repair, alter and
improve the dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of
fitness established by this chapter within a reasonable specified period of
time.
      (3)   The order may also direct and require the owner to vacate and close
the dwelling or dwelling unit until the repairs, alterations and improvements
have been made. Upon completion of required improvements, a new certificate of
occupancy must be issued prior to subsequent leasing or sale of dwelling to a
third party. Hardship cases may be handled by the Inspector, recommending time
or minimum requirement waivers to the town’s Zoning Board of Adjustment, which
body shall act on the recommendation.
      (4)   If the Inspector determines that, the dwelling is dilapidated, he
or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact to support that
determination, and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner thereof an
order directing and requiring the owner to either repair, alter and improve the
dwelling or dwelling unit to comply with the minimum standards of fitness
established by this chapter, or else vacate and remove or demolish the same
within a reasonable specified period of time, not to exceed 90 days, unless the
owner elects to proceed under the procedures set forth in this division, or
unless an application for an extension of up to 90 days is applied for by the
owner and granted by the Code Enforcement Official for good cause shown.
         (a)   1.   Within ten days from the date of the order determining that
the building is dilapidated, the owner may notify the Code Enforcement Official
in writing of his or her intent to make the repairs or alterations to the place
of habitation so as to comply with the minimum standards of fitness.
            2.   Upon receipt of an owner’s written intent to repair the place
of habitation within the time provided in this division, the Code Enforcement
Official shall issue supplemental orders directing the owner to commence and
complete the repairs or alterations necessary to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness.
            3.   The Code Enforcement Official shall allow a reasonable period
of time for the owner to make the repairs or alterations, but in no event shall
the period of time allowed for the repairs or alterations be less than 30 days
nor more than 90 days unless an extension of up to 90 days is granted by the
Code Enforcement Official for good cause shown.
            4.   Upon application by the owner within the specified period of
time, the Code Enforcement Official may grant extensions of up to one year for
an owner-occupied dwelling, or up to 180 days for all other places of
habitation for good cause shown.
         (b)   If the owner fails to give notice of either an intent to repair
as provided in this division or notice of appeal of the decision of the Code
Enforcement Official to the Housing Appeals Board within the time specified for
such an appeal, the Code Enforcement Official shall proceed in accordance with
divisions (B)(4)(a)1. through (B)(4)(a)4 above.
         (c)   1.   The Code Enforcement Official shall cause the complaint and
notice issued under division (A) above and the findings of fact and order
issued under this division to be filed in the notice of lis pendens in the
office of the clerk of the county superior court. From the date and time of
indexing by the clerk of court, the complaint and notice of hearing or findings
of fact and order shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the
owners of and parties in interest in the place of habitation.
            2.   A copy of the notice of lis pendens shall be served upon the
owners and parties in interest in the place of habitation at the time of filing
in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1206. The notice of lis pendens shall remain in
full force and effect until it is cancelled. The Code Enforcement Official
shall have the authority to notify the clerk of court to cancel the notice of
lis pendens when the Code Enforcement Official determines that there no longer
is a need for the notice to remain in effect.
         (d)   1.   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to division (B)
(4)(b) above that a dwelling must be vacated and closed or removed or
demolished, under this section, notice of the order shall be given by first
class mail to any organization involved in providing or restoring dwellings for
affordable housing that has filed a written request for the notices.
            2.   A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of the notice
shall be given before removal or demolition by action of the Code Enforcement
Official, to allow the opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the
owner to make repairs, lease or purchase the property for the purpose of
providing affordable housing.
            3.   The Code Enforcement Official or the Town Clerk shall certify
the mailing of the notices, and the certification shall be conclusive in the
absence of fraud. Only an organization that has filed a written request for the
notices may raise the issue of failure to mail the notices, and the sole remedy
shall be an order requiring the Code Enforcement Official to wait 45 days
before causing removal or demolition.
   (C)   Failure to comply with order.
      (1)   In personam remedy. If the owner of any deteriorated dwelling or
dwelling unit shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to repair,
alter or improve the same within the time specified therein, or if the owner of
a dilapidated dwelling shall fail to comply with an order of the Inspector to
vacate and close, and remove or demolish the same within the time specified
therein, the Inspector shall submit to the governing body of the town at its
next regular meeting a resolution directing the Town Attorney to petition the
superior court for an order directing the owner to comply with the order of the
Inspector, as authorized by G.S. § 160D-1208 (e).
      (2)   In rem remedy.  After failure of an owner of a deteriorated
dwelling or dwelling unit, or of a dilapidated dwelling, to comply with an
order of the Inspector within the time specified therein, if injunctive relief
has not been sought or has not been granted as provided in the preceding
division (C)(1), the Inspector shall submit to the governing body an ordinance
ordering the Inspector to cause the dwelling or dwelling unit to be repaired,
altered, improved or vacated and closed and removed or demolished, as provided
in the original order of the Inspector, and pending the removal or demolition,
to placard the dwelling as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203 and § 151.41.
      (3)   Civil action to remove occupant.  If any occupant fails to comply
with an order to vacate a place of habitation the Code Enforcement Official may
file a civil action in the name of the town to remove the occupant. The action
shall be filed and conducted in accordance with G.S. § 160D-1203 (8).
   (D)   Appeals from orders of Inspector.
      (1)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Inspector may be taken
by any person aggrieved thereby. Any appeal from the Inspector shall be taken
within ten days from the rendering of the decision or service of the order, and
shall be taken by filing with the Inspector and with the town’s Zoning Board of
Adjustment, hereinafter referred to as “Board,” a notice of appeal which shall
specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any
notice of appeal, the Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
paper constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
      (2)   When appeal is from a decision of the Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any act, his or her decision shall remain in
force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision of the
Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have
the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by the Board, unless
the Inspector certifies to the Board, after the notice of appeal is filed with
him or her, that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate (a copy of
which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of this requirement would
cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case the requirement shall
not be suspended except by a restraining order, which may be granted for due
cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Inspector, by
the Board or by a court of record upon petition made pursuant to G.S. § 160D-
1208 (d) and division (E) of this section.
      (3)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all
appeals, shall give due notice to all the parties, and shall render its
decision within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent
or attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make such decision and order as in its
opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have the
powers of the Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of the members
of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision or order of
the Inspector.
      (4)   The Board shall have power also in passing upon appeals, in any
case where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, to adapt the application of
this chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of this
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
   (E)   Review of decisions. Every decision of the Board shall be subject to
review by proceedings in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of
the decision of the Board, but not otherwise, as provided in G.S. § 160D-1208
(c). In addition, any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board shall also have the right, within 30 days after
issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to petition the superior
court for a temporary injunction restraining the Inspector pending a final
disposition of the cause, as provided by G.S. § 160D-1208 (d).
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.040 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector shall be served upon persons
either personally or by registered or certified mail. If the whereabouts of the
persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector in the exercise
of reasonable diligence, and the Inspector makes an affidavit to that effect,
then the serving of the complaint or order upon those persons may be made by
publishing the same once each week for two successive weeks in a newspaper of
general circulation in the county, the second publication being not less than
ten days nor more than 30 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.041 IN REM ACTION BY INSPECTOR; PLACARDING.
   (A)   After failure of an owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit to comply
with an order of the Inspector issued pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, and upon adoption by the governing body of the town of an ordinance
authorizing and directing him or her to do so, as provided by G.S. § 160D-1203
(4) and (5) and §
151.039(C) of this chapter, the Inspector shall proceed to cause the dwelling
or dwelling unit to be repaired, altered or improved to comply with the minimum
standards of fitness established by this chapter, or to be vacated and closed
and removed or demolished, as directed by this chapter of the governing body
and shall cause to be posted on the main entrance of such dwelling or dwelling
unit a placard with the following words: “This building is unfit for human
habitation; the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is
prohibited and unlawful.” Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Code Enforcement Official in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused
to accept service by registered or certified mail, and the Code Enforcement
Official makes an affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or
order upon the owners or other persons may be made by publication in a
newspaper having general circulation in the town at least once no later than
the time at which personal service would be required under this chapter. When
service is made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
   (C)   Each ordinance shall be recorded in the office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property is located, and shall be indexed in
the name of the property owner in the grantor index, as provided by G.S. §
160D-1203 (5).
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.042 COSTS; A LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   As provided by G.S. § 160D-1203 (6), the amount of the cost of any
repairs, alterations or improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal or
demolition, caused to be made or done by the Inspector pursuant to §
151.041 shall be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was
incurred. The lien shall be filed, have the same priority and be enforced and
the costs collected as the lien for special assessments provided by G.S.
Chapter 160A, Article 10.
   (B)   If a dwelling or other structure is removed or demolished by the Code
Enforcement Official, he or she shall sell the materials of the dwelling or
other structure and any personal property, fixtures or appurtenances found in
or attached to the dwelling or other structure and shall credit the proceeds of
the sale against the cost of the removal or demolition. Any balance remaining
shall be deposited in the superior court by the Code Enforcement Official,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.043 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Neither this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to impair
or limit in any way the power of the town to define and declare nuisances and
to cause their abatement by summary action or otherwise, or to enforce this
chapter by criminal process as authorized by G.S. § 14-4 and §
151.003, and the enforcement of any remedy provided herein shall not prevent
the enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.044 ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The town’s Zoning Board of Adjustment shall perform the duties prescribed by
§
151.039(D) and shall keep an accurate record of all its proceedings.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
ABANDONED AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 151.055 ABANDONED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Any abandoned structure that is a health or safety hazard as a result
of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard,
dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by
vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities shall be
repaired, closed or demolished. It shall be unlawful for the owner of an
abandoned structure to allow the abandoned structure to become or to remain a
health or safety hazard as defined in this division.
   (B)   (1)   The Code Enforcement Official shall have the authority to
attempt to accomplish the repair, closing or demolition of unsafe abandoned
structures through the procedures set out in §
151.039, except that if the estimated cost to repair the structure is 50% or
more of its value, the structure shall be considered dilapidated, and the Code
Enforcement Official shall order that it be demolished and removed.
      (2)   Upon the failure of the owner of an unsafe abandoned structure to
comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Official to repair, close or
demolish the structure, the Code Enforcement Official shall present the matter
to the Board of Commissioners. If the Board of Commissioners finds that the
abandoned structure is unsafe pursuant to division (A), it may adopt an
ordinance ordering the Code Enforcement Official to cause the abandoned
structure to be repaired, closed or demolished. Each ordinance shall be
recorded as provided in §
151.041, and the cost of any repair, closing or demolition caused to be made by
the Code Enforcement Official shall be a lien on the premises as provided in §
151.042.
   (C)   For purposes of divisions (A) and (B) above, the term ABANDONED
STRUCTURE shall mean any structure that has not been occupied or used, by its
owner or by some person acting under authority of its owner, for a continuous
period of 30 days or longer.
   (D)   If the Board of Commissioners shall have adopted an ordinance, or the
Code Enforcement Official shall have issued an order ordering a dwelling to be
repaired or vacated and closed, as provided in §
151.039, and if the owner has vacated and closed the dwelling and kept the
dwelling vacated and closed for a period of one year pursuant to the ordinance
or order, if the Town Council shall find that the owner has abandoned the
intent and purpose to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in order to render
it fit for human habitation and that the continuation of the dwelling in its
vacated and closed status would be inimical to the health, safety, morals and
welfare of the town in that the dwelling would continue to deteriorate, would
create a fire and safety hazard, would be a threat to children and vagrants,
would attract persons intent on criminal activities, would cause or contribute
to blight and the deterioration of property values in the area, and would
render unavailable property and a dwelling which might otherwise have been made
available to ease the persistent shortage of decent and affordable housing in
this state, the Board of Commissioners may, after the expiration of the one-
year period, enact an ordinance and serve the ordinance on the owner, setting
forth the following:
      (1)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation can be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the then-
current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days; or
      (2)   If it is determined that the repair of the dwelling to render it
fit for human habitation cannot be made at a cost not exceeding 50% of the
then-current value of the dwelling, the ordinance shall require the owner to
demolish and remove the dwelling within 90 days.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.056 UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   (A)   When it appears to the Code Enforcement Official that a building is
especially dangerous to life because of its liability to fire or because of bad
condition of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay, unsafe
wiring or heating system, inadequate means of egress, or other causes, the Code
Enforcement Official may exercise the powers granted by G.S. §§ 160D-1119
through 160D-1122.
   (B)   An order issued by the Code Enforcement Official under the authority
of this section shall be certified by the Town Clerk and filed in the record of
lis pendens.
   (C)   Upon the failure by the owner of the affected building to comply with
an order issued under the authority of this section, further enforcement of the
order shall be pursuant to the procedures provided in §§
151.039(C) through (E),
151.040 and
151.041.
   (D)   In addition to other authority granted by this section, the Code
Enforcement Official may exercise the authority granted by G.S. § 160D-1119
(b), (c).
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
MINIMUM STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO LODGING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 151.085 APPLICABILITY.
   All of the sections of this chapter and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to lodging establishments and
to every person who operates a lodging establishment or who occupies or lets to
another for occupancy any lodging unit, except as provided in the following
sections of this subchapter, or as expressly otherwise excluded in this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.086 WATER CLOSET, HAND LAVATORY AND BATH FACILITIES.
   At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly
connected to an approved water and sewer system and in good working condition,
shall be supplied for each lodging unit. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.087 INTERIOR SPACE DIMENSIONS.
   Interior space dimensions shall comply with all applicable requirements of
the State Building Code.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.088 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The operator of every lodging establishment shall be responsible for the
sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for the sanitary
maintenance of every other part of the lodging establishment. The operator
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the lodging
establishment is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.089 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower
required by §
151.017 shall be located within a room which affords privacy and is separate
from the habitable room, and which is accessible from a common hall and without
going outside the hotel/motel room.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.090 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   Means of egress shall comply with all applicable requirements of the
State Building Code.
   (B)   Deadbolt locks, if any, on exterior doors shall be operable from the
exterior by the use of a key, card or combination and from the inside by a knob
or lever without the use of a key, card or combination or special knowledge or
effort to operate; no person shall install a deadbolt lock on a hotel room or
motel room door that does not comply with all applicable laws.
   (C)   There shall be conspicuously displayed immediately adjacent to or on
the inside of every exit door from a sleeping room, a diagram depicting two
evacuation routes.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.091 FIRE RESISTANCE.
   Walls, floors, ceilings, doors and windows shall comply with all applicable
requirements of the State Building Code if damaged or constructed of highly
flammable material.
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the same, or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the same, upon order of the Inspector duly made
and served as herein provided, within the time specified in the order, and each
day that any failure, neglect or refusal to comply with the order continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. It shall be unlawful for the
owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit, with respect to which an order has been
issued pursuant to §
151.039, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time
prescribed in the order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, and each day that the occupancy continues after the
prescribed time shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of either of the following divisions (B)(1)(a) or (B)
(1)(b), who fails to comply with an order of the Code Enforcement Official to
repair, alter or improve the dwelling or rooming-house or to vacate and close
and remove or demolish the dwelling or rooming-house within the time specified
in the order, shall be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $500 for the
first day of noncompliance and $25 for each day thereafter until the dwelling
is brought into compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered
by the city in a civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay
the penalty within 30 days after the initial day of noncompliance:
         (a)   A dwelling, except an owner who occupies the dwelling as his or
her principal place of residence; or
         (b)   A rooming-house, except when the owner resides in the rooming-
house.
      (2)   Any owner of a lodging establishment who fails to comply with an
order of the Code Enforcement Official to repair, alter or improve the lodging
establishment, within the time specified in the order, shall be subject to a
civil penalty in the amount of $1,000 for the first day of noncompliance and
$100 for each day thereafter until the lodging establishment is brought into
compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered by the city in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay the penalty
within 30 days after the initial day of noncompliance.
      (3)   The Code Enforcement Official in his or her discretion may agree,
in writing only, to release, in whole or in part, an owner from liability for
the civil penalty imposed pursuant to divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above if the
owner voluntarily agrees, as consideration for the release, to convey to the
town, or to some other person or organization, the property from which the
civil penalty arose upon such terms and conditions as the owner and the Code
Enforcement Official might agree.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation that is
imminently dangerous to health or safety to collect rent from another person
who occupied the place of habitation at the time it became imminently dangerous
to health or safety or to permit any other person to begin occupancy of the
place of habitation. A place of habitation is imminently dangerous to health or
safety if it is in violation of any one of the following minimum standards of
fitness established by §
151.015:
         (a)   Rotted, fire-damaged or insect-damaged steps, flooring or
structural supports, as provided in §§
151.016(B)(1) and
151.020(I)(2);
         (b)   Fire hazard in a chimney that is in use, as provided in §
151.017;
         (c)   Unsafe wiring, as provided in §
151.017(C);
         (d)   Unsafe ceiling or roof, as provided in §
151.016(A)(1), (A)(7), (G)(1) and (G)(5);
         (e)   No potable water supply, as provided in §
151.017(A);
         (f)   No operable heating equipment, as required by §
151.017(B) during November, December, January, February or March;
         (g)   No operable sanitary facilities, as provided in §
151.017(A);
         (h)   Severe rat infestation where the place of habitation is not
impervious to pests, as provided in §
151.020(K);
         (i)   No safe, continuous, and unobstructed exit from the interior of
the building to the exterior at street or grade level, as provided in §
151.020(I);
         (j)   No access provided to all rooms within a dwelling unit without
passing through a public space, as provided in §
151.090;
         (k)   Any window or door providing access to any dwelling unit or
rooming unit lacking an operable lock or the owner failing to provide a change
of locks or keys to a new tenant of such dwelling unit or rooming unit, as
provided in §§
151.018 and
151.090;
         (l)   No operable smoke detector or alarm, as provided in §
151.090; or
         (m)   Every place of habitation shall comply with the current county
health regulations governing carbon monoxide alarms.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation who has
done either of the following to permit another person, other than a person who
occupied the place of habitation at the time of the issuance of the complaint
and notice, to occupy the place of habitation without first informing the
person, in writing, of the issuance of the complaint and notice and providing
him or her with a copy of such complaint and notice:
         (a)   Has received a complaint and notice authorized by §
151.039(C) with regard to the place of habitation; or
         (b)   Has gained knowledge by other means that the Code Enforcement
Official has issued such a complaint and notice regarding the place of
habitation.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of a place of habitation who has
received a final code enforcement order, after all periods for appeal to the
Housing Appeals Board and petitions to the court have expired pursuant to §
151.039, to fail to comply with such order. However, with respect to an order
to vacate and close and remove or demolish the place of habitation, no civil
penalty shall accrue, notwithstanding divisions (B)(2)(b) and (B)(2)(c) of this
section, nor shall any criminal liability attach until 30 days following the
relocation of the occupants of the places of habitation.
      (7)   In addition to any other penalty imposed by this chapter, any
person who violates division (B)(5), (6) or (7) above shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Except as provided in this division, there shall not be any criminal
liability for violation of any section of this chapter.
   (C)   The violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor, as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
   (D)   In addition to the remedy specified in this and in other sections of
this chapter, the provisions of this chapter may also be enforced by the town
by injunction and order or abatement or by any other equitable remedy issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction, as specified in G.S. § 160A-175(d) and
(e).
(Ord. passed 11-18-2021)
CHAPTER 152: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES
Section
   
152.01   Short title
   
152.02   Purpose and authority
   
152.03   Scope and applicability
   
152.04   Definitions
   
152.05   Duties and powers of the Code Enforcement Official
   
152.06   Inspections
   
152.07   Administrative liability
   
152.08   Procedure for enforcement
   
152.09   Appeals from order of Code Enforcement Official to the Board of
Adjustment
   
152.10   Methods of service of complaints and orders
   
152.11   Lis pendens
   
152.12   Costs a lien on the property
   
152.13   Alternative remedies
   
152.14   Conflict with other provisions
   
152.15   Violations; penalty
   
152.16   Ejectment
   
152.17   Maintenance standards in general
   
152.18   External maintenance standards
   
152.19   Interior maintenance standards
   
152.20   Property maintenance standards
   
152.21   Vacant buildings or structures
§ 152.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The rules and regulations prescribed by this chapter shall be known and be
cited as “The Non- Residential Building Code of the Town of Cramerton” and may
be referred to in this chapter as “this code” or “this chapter”.
§ 152.02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards for the
maintenance, sanitation and safety of all non-residential buildings and
structures within the corporate limits of the city. This chapter does not
replace or modify requirements or standards otherwise established for the
construction, repair, alteration or use of buildings, equipment or facilities,
except as provided in this chapter.
§ 152.03 SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all non-residential
buildings or structures which are now in existence or which may be built within
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Every non-residential building or structure and the property on which
it is situated shall comply with the provisions of this chapter, whether or not
such building or structure shall have been constructed, altered or repaired
before or after the enactment of this chapter, and irrespective of any permits
or licenses which have been issued for the use or occupancy of the building or
structure or for the installment or repair of equipment or facilities.
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts or in the exit facilities; as enlargement, whether by
extending on a side or by increasing in height; or the moving from one location
or position to another; and the term ALTER, in its various moods and tenses,
and its participle refers to the making of an ALTERATION.
   APPROVED. As applied to a material, device or mode of construction, approved
by the Inspector under this chapter or by other authority designated by law to
give approval in the matter in question.
   AREA.
      (1)   As applied to the dimensions of a building, the maximum horizontal
projected area of the building.
      (2)   As applied to the dimensions of a room, the total square footage of
floor area between finished walls.
   BASEMENT. A story with 50% or more of its cubical volume below finished
grade.
   BOARD or TOWN BOARD. The Town Board of the Town of Cramerton.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals or property of any kind. The term BUILDING shall be construed as if
followed by the phrase “or part thereof”.
   CLOSE. Securing the building or structure so that unauthorized persons
cannot gain entrance.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person who has been designated by the Town
Manager to enforce this chapter.
   DEMOLISH. The demolition and removal of the entire building or structure,
leaving the property free and clear of any debris and without holes or pockets
which may retain water.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Inspector.
   GARBAGE. Waste materials including, without limitation, the byproduct of
animal or vegetable foodstuffs, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard waste, tins, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery, dust and the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible material.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a building or structure, of any
insects, rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the
health, safety or welfare of the occupants or public.
   INSPECTOR. Any person who is authorized by the Code Enforcement Official to
conduct inspections for the purpose of this chapter.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL. Any building or structure that is not a dwelling, lodging
establishment, manufactured home or rooming house as those terms are defined
herein.
   OWNER. The holder of title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTY IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a non-residential building or structure and any who are
in possession thereof.
   PIER. A masonry or other material support extending from the ground and
footing to and supporting the building or portion thereof. Pier sizes and
spacing shall conform to the specifications of the State Building Code.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas-burning equipment, water pipes, mechanical sink grinders, waste pipes,
water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower
baths, installed clothes washing machines, catchbasins, drains, vents and any
other similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer
or gas lines.
   PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel of land inclusive of any building, structures or
improvements located thereon.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any authority or officer of any department or branch of
the government of the city, county or state who is in charge of administering
and enforcing regulations relating to health, fire, public safety, buildings or
other activities concerning buildings or structures in the city.
   STATE BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code or any
superseding regulation.
   VACANT. A building or structure has not been used for its intended purpose
or for any lawful purpose for a period of at least 180 consecutive days.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purposes for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
§ 152.05 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Code Enforcement Official to:
   (A)   Investigate the conditions of and inspect buildings and structures in
the town in order to determine whether they have been properly maintained in
compliance with the minimum standards established by this chapter so that the
safety or health of the occupants or members of the general public are not
jeopardized;
   (B)   Enter upon property for the purpose of making examinations and
inspections; provided that, such entries shall be made in accordance with law
and in such a manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the
persons in possession, if any;
   (C)   If permission to enter is not granted by the owner, the owner’s agent,
a tenant or other person legally in possession of the property, obtain a duly
issued administrative search warrant in accordance with G.S. § 15-27.2;
   (D)   Appoint and fix the duties of officers, agents and employee’s
necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter;
   (E)   Delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this chapter to
other officers and agents;
   (F)   Take such action, together with other appropriate departments and
agencies, public and private, as may be necessary to effect compliance of non-
residential buildings or structures which are in an unsafe condition;
   (G)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine witnesses and receive
evidence;
   (H)   Issue notices of violation and impose civil penalties;
   (I)   Keep a record of the results of inspections made under this chapter;
and
   (J)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed in this chapter.
§ 152.06 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of making inspections, the Code Enforcement Official is
hereby authorized to enter and examine and survey, at all reasonable times, all
property after sufficiently identifying himself or herself. The owner or
occupant of every property, or the person in charge thereof, shall give the
Code Enforcement Official free access to such property, at all reasonable
times, for the purpose of such inspection, examination and survey.
§ 152.07 ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY.
   Except as may otherwise be provided by statute or local law or ordinance, no
town officer, agent or employee charged with the enforcement of this chapter
shall be personally liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or
property as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his
or her duties under this chapter unless he or she acted with actual malice.
(Ord. 4274, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 152.08 PROCEDURE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation. Whenever it appears to the Code Enforcement
Official that any non- residential building or structure has not been properly
maintained so that the safety or health of its occupants or members of the
general public is jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum
standards established by this chapter, he or she shall undertake a preliminary
investigation.
   (B)   Complaint and hearing. If the preliminary investigation discloses
evidence of a violation of the minimum standards established by this chapter,
the Code Enforcement Official shall issue a complaint and cause it to be served
upon the owner of and parties in interest in such non-residential building or
structure. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Code Enforcement Official at a place therein
fixed, not less than ten days or more than 30 days after the serving of such
complaint. The owner or any party in interest shall have the right to correct
the violation or to file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint. Any
person desiring to do so may attend such hearing and give evidence relevant to
the matter being heard. The rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or
equity shall not be controlling in the hearing before the Code Enforcement
Official.
   (C)   Procedure after hearing; issuance of order.
      (1)   If, after notice and hearing provided for in division (B) above,
the Code Enforcement Official determines that the non-residential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public is jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established in this chapter, the Code
Enforcement Official shall state in writing findings of fact in support of that
determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner an order.
      (2)   If the Code Enforcement Official determines that the cost of
repair, alteration or improvement of the non-residential building or structure
would not exceed 50% of its then current value, then the Code Enforcement
Official shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of such
determination and issue an order that requires the owner, within a reasonable
time specified in the order, to either:
         (a)   Repair, alter or improve the non-residential building or
structure in order to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards
established in this chapter; or
         (b)   Vacate and close the non-residential building or structure for
any use.
      (3)   If the Code Enforcement Official determines that the cost of
repair, alteration or improvement of the non-residential building or structure
would exceed 50% of its then current value, then the Code Enforcement Official
shall state in writing the findings of fact in support of such determination
and issue an order that requires the owner, within a reasonable time specified
in the order, to either:
         (a)   Remove or demolish the non-residential building or structure; or
         (b)   Repair, alter or improve the non-residential building or
structure to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards established in
this chapter.
   (D)   Limitations on orders.
      (1)   Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the non-residential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Town Board determines, after a public hearing as
provided by ordinance, that the non- residential building or structure is of
individual significance or contributes to maintaining the character of the
district, and the non-residential building or structure has not been condemned
as unsafe, the order may require that the non-residential building or structure
be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance with the minimum
standards established in this chapter.
      (2)   An order may not require repairs, alterations or improvements to be
made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
   (E)   Action by Board upon failure to comply with order.
      (1)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or
improve or to vacate and close the non-residential building or structure, the
Town Board may adopt an ordinance ordering the Code Enforcement Official to
cause such building or structure to be repaired, altered or improved in order
to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards established by this
chapter or to be vacated and closed for any use. The property or properties
shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded in the
office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Code Enforcement Official may cause the building or structure to
be repaired, altered or improved or to be vacated and closed. The Code
Enforcement Official may cause to be posted on the main entrance of any non-
residential building or structure so closed a placard with the following words:
“This building is unfit for any use; the use or occupation of this building for
any purpose is prohibited and unlawful.” Any person who occupies or knowingly
allows the occupancy of a building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a
Class 3 misdemeanor.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish
the non-residential building or structure, the Town Board may adopt an
ordinance ordering the Code Enforcement Official to cause such building or
structure to be removed or demolished. No ordinance shall be adopted to require
removal or demolition of a non-residential building or structure until the
owner has first been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity
with the minimum standards established in this chapter. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Code Enforcement Official may cause the building or structure to
be removed or demolished.
   (F)   Action by Town board upon abandonment of intent to repair.
      (1)   (a)   If the Town Board has adopted an ordinance or the Code
Enforcement Official has issued an order requiring the building or structure to
be repaired or vacated and closed and the building or structure has been
vacated and closed for a period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or
order, the Town Board may make findings that the owner has abandoned the intent
and purpose to repair, alter or improve the building or structure and that the
continuation of the building or structure in its vacated and closed status
would be inimical to the health, safety and welfare of the town in that it
would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard, would be a
threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on criminal
activities, or would cause or contribute to blight and the deterioration of
property values in the area. Upon such findings, the Town Board may, after the
expiration of the two-year period, enact an ordinance and serve such ordinance
on the owner, setting forth the following:
            1.   If the cost to repair the non-residential building or
structure to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than
or equal to 50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the
owner either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90
days; or
            2.   If the cost to repair the non-residential building or
structure to bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of
its then current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and
remove the building or structure within 90 days.
         (b)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant
industrial warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been
vacated and closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years
before the Town Board may take action under this division (F). The ordinance
shall be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the county wherein
the property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index.
      (2)   If the owner fails to comply with the ordinance, the Code
Enforcement Official shall cause the building or structure to be removed or
demolished.
(Ord. 4274, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 152.09 APPEALS FROM ORDER OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL TO THE BOARD OF
ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   An appeal from any decision of the Code Enforcement Official may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby to the Board of Adjustment. Any appeal
from the Code Enforcement Official must be taken within ten days after the
rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the Code
Enforcement Official and with the Appeals Board a notice of appeal which shall
specify the grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any
notice of appeal, the Code Enforcement Official shall forthwith transmit to the
Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon which the
decision appealed from was made. When an appeal is from a decision of the Code
Enforcement Official refusing to allow the person aggrieved thereby to do any
act, the Code Enforcement Official’s decision shall remain in force until
modified or reversed. When an appeal is from a decision of the Code Enforcement
Official requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the appeal shall have
the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing of the Board unless
the Code Enforcement Official certifies to the Board, after the notice of
appeal is made, that, by reason of the fact stated in the certificate, a copy
of which shall be furnished to the appellant and other parties in interest, a
suspension of this requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property.
When the Code Enforcement Official issues such a certificate, the requirement
shall not be suspended, except by a restraining order which may be granted for
due cause shown upon not less than one day’s written notice to the Code
Enforcement Official by the board or by a court of record upon petition made
pursuant to G.S. § 160A-446(c) and division (C) of this section. The Board
shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of all appeals and cross appeals,
shall give due notices to all parties in interest and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney and present evidence. The Board may reverse, affirm, wholly or partly,
or modify the decision or order appealed from and may make such decision and
order as in its opinion ought to be made in the matter.
   (B)   Every decision of the board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the service of the
decision of the Board on the person who filed the appeal.
   (C)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Code Enforcement
Official or a decision rendered by the Board shall have the right, within 30
days after issuance of the order or rendering of the decision, to petition the
superior court for a temporary injunction restraining the Code Enforcement
Official pending a final disposition of the cause, as provided by state
statute.
§ 152.10 METHODS OF SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Code Enforcement Official pursuant
to this chapter shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered
or certified mail so long as the means used are reasonably designed to achieve
actual notice. When service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of
the complaint or order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be
deemed sufficient if the registered or certified mail is refused, but the
regular mail is not returned by the post office within ten days after the
mailing. If regular mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be
posted in a conspicuous place on the property affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Code Enforcement Official in the
exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Code Enforcement Official makes an
affidavit to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners
or other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the town at least once no later than the time at which personal
service would be required under this chapter. When service is made by
publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the property affected.
§ 152.11 LIS PENDENS.
   Any complaint and notice of hearing or order issued pursuant to this chapter
may be filed in the notice of lis pendens in the office of the Clerk of the
Superior Court. A copy of the complaint containing a notice of hearing or a
copy of the order shall be attached to the lis pendens. When the lis pendens is
filed with the Clerk, it shall be indexed and cross-indexed in accordance with
the indexing procedures of G.S. § 1-117 and it shall be served on the owners of
and parties in interest in the building or structure. From the date and time of
indexing the complaint and notice of hearing or order, it shall be binding upon
the successors and assigns of the owners of and parties in interest in the
building or structure. The Code Enforcement Official may cancel the lis pendens
upon his or her determination that the owner of the building or structure has
fully complied with the Code Enforcement Official’s order.
§ 152.12 COSTS A LIEN ON THE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of any repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition, caused to be made or done by
the Code Enforcement Official pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall
be a lien against the real property upon which such cost was incurred. Such
lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Ch. 160A, Art. 10.
   (B)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition expended by the Code Enforcement
Official is also a lien on any other real property of the owner located within
the town limits, except for the owner’s primary residence. The additional lien
provided in this subsection is inferior to all prior liens and shall be
collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the non-residential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the Code Enforcement Official, he or she shall offer for sale the
recoverable materials of the building or structure and any personal property,
fixtures or appurtenances found in or attached to the building or structure and
shall credit the proceeds of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal
or demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior
court by the Code Enforcement Official, shall be secured in a manner directed
by the court, and shall be disbursed by the court to the persons found to be
entitled thereto by final order or decree of the court. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to impair or limit in any way the power of the Town Board to
define and declare nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary
proceedings or otherwise.
§ 152.13 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Enforcement by any remedy provided in this chapter shall not prevent
enforcement by any other remedy provided in this chapter or in other ordinances
or laws. With the exception of §
152.08(E)(1), however, a violation of any provision of this chapter shall not
constitute an infraction or misdemeanor punishable under G.S. § 14-4.
§ 152.14 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   If any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with any other town ordinance, the provision which establishes the
higher standard or more stringent requirement for the promotion and protection
of the health and safety of the residents of the town shall prevail.
§ 152.15 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any non-residential building or
structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve the building
or structure, or to vacate and close and remove or demolish, or to vacate and
close the building or structure upon order of the Code Enforcement Official
duly made and served as provided in this chapter, within the time specified in
such order; and each day that any such failure, neglect or refusal to comply
with such order continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or agent of the owner of any non-
residential building or structure, with respect to which an order has been
issued to occupy or permit the occupancy of the building after the time
prescribed in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its
vacation and closing, and removal or demolition, and each day that such
occupancy continues after such prescribed time shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense.
   (C)   Any owner who fails to comply with an order of the Code Enforcement
Official to repair, alter or improve the building or structure or to vacate and
close and remove or demolish the building or structure, or vacate and close the
building or structure within the time specified in the order, shall be subject
to a civil penalty in the amount of $500 for the first day of noncompliance and
$50 for each day thereafter until the building or structure is brought into
compliance with the order. The civil penalty may be recovered by the town in a
civil action in the nature of a debt if the owner does not pay the penalty
within 30 days after the initial day of non-compliance.
§ 152.16 EJECTMENT.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a non-residential
building or structure, the Code Enforcement Official may file a civil action in
the name of the town to remove the occupant. Such action shall be filed in the
nature of summary ejectment.
§ 152.17 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS IN GENERAL.
   Only electrical, mechanical and plumbing devices and systems which are (i)
intended to be used at the time of inspection; (ii) being used at the time of
inspection; or (iii) required by law at the time of inspection are subject to
the applicable portions of this chapter.
§ 152.18 EXTERNAL MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exit requirements.
      (1)   Minimum number of exits shall conform to the requirements of the
State Building Code as applicable.
      (2)   Every stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including without limitation, handrails and guardrails, shall
be maintained in a structurally sound condition, in good repair. Each shall be
properly anchored and capable of supporting live or dead loads.
   (B)   Electrical facilities.
      (1)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other fixtures shall be hanging
loose, unless designed and rated for that purpose.
      (2)   All switches and receptacles shall be safe.
      (3)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
      (4)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet in
length used in place of permanent wiring.
      (5)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
      (6)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (7)   All wiring shall be in accordance with the National Electrical
Code.
   (C)   Exterior walls.
      (1)   There shall be no unsafe wall conditions such that the plumbline
from the top center of studs falls outside the base plate at any point along
the wall.
      (2)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing they show signs of being
weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State Building
Code.
      (3)   Studs or other structural members shall be structurally sound and
not likely to cause structural weakness in the future.
      (4)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
      (5)   All siding shall be reasonably weather-tight, with no holes or
excessive cracks or decayed boards, or siding material.
      (6)   There shall be no loose siding.
      (7)   There shall be no deterioration because of lack of preventative
maintenance consisting of painting, water-proofing and repair.
   (D)   Roofs.
      (1)   All structural members shall be maintained free from deterioration,
and shall be capable of safely supporting the dead and live loads.
      (2)   The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not have defects
which admit water or rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent dampness
or deterioration in the walls or interior of the structure. Roof drains,
gutters, scuppers and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair, and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a health or safety hazard.
   (E)   Porches, vestibules and external covered areas.
      (1)   The floor, ceiling and roof shall be equal to requirements set
forth in this chapter, except sills, joists and floors need not be level if
providing drainage of floors; floors need not be weather-tight.
      (2)   Every stairway, deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including, without limitation, handrails and guardrails,
shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition, in good repair. Each
shall be properly anchored, and capable of supporting imposed loads.
   (F)   Windows. Windows, where provided, including frames, sash components,
and glazing shall be maintained in good condition, with no broken, cracked or
missing glazing.
   (G)   Property maintenance.
      (1)   Building structure. Exterior wood surfaces not inherently resistant
to deterioration shall be treated with a protective coating of paint or other
suitable preservative with sufficient frequency to prevent deterioration.
      (2)   Open areas. There shall be no heavy undergrowth or accumulation of
plant growth which is noxious or detrimental to health, or because it is
overgrown, may provide harborage for criminal activity.
      (3)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
      (4)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather-coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
§ 152.19 INTERIOR MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   In general. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good order, shall be structurally sound, and be in a sanitary
condition. Occupants shall keep that part of the building or structure which
they occupy or control in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (A)   Exit requirements. Minimum number of exits shall conform to the
requirements of the State Building Code as applicable.
   (B)   Plumbing systems and facilities.
      (1)   In general, all fixtures and piping shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects. All plumbing shall be capable of performing the function for which
such plumbing fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained
in a safe, sanitary and functional condition.
      (2)   Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearance for usage and
cleaning.
      (3)   Where it is found that a plumbing system in a building or structure
creates an unsafe condition that is hazardous to the occupants, or by reason of
inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross-connection, backsiphonage,
improper installation deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the Code
Enforcement Official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the
unsafe condition.
   (C)   Heating facilities.
      (1)   Building shall be weather-proof.
      (2)   Heating systems shall be maintained in good order and repair and
shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all occupied areas in accordance
with the State Building Code.
      (3)   All safety controls and all clearances to combustible materials for
electrical equipment which produces heat shall be maintained in effective
operation.
      (4)   Other heating facilities, where provided, shall meet the
requirements of the State Building Code.
      (5)   All electric, gas and heating oil heating equipment installed on
the property shall be listed by Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc. or American
Gas Association and installed in accordance with the provisions of the State
Building Code.
      (6)   All mechanical appliances shall be properly installed and
maintained in a safe working condition, and shall be capable of performing the
intended function.
      (7)   All fuel burning equipment or appliances shall be connected to an
approved chimney or vent. Fuel burning equipment and appliances labeled for
unvented use are an exception to this requirement.
      (8)   All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
      (9)   All safety controls for fuel burning equipment shall be maintained
in effective operation.
   (D)   Electrical facilities.
      (1)   No receptacles, ceiling fixtures or other fixtures shall be hanging
loose unless designed and rated for that purpose.
      (2)   All switches and receptacles shall be safe.
      (3)   There shall be no unsafe wiring.
      (4)   There shall be no drop or extension cords in excess of six feet in
length used in place of permanent wiring.
      (5)   No circuits shall be overloaded.
      (6)   Fuses shall be sized correctly and not bridged out.
      (7)   All wiring shall be in accordance with the National Electrical
Code.
   (E)   Structural standards.
      (1)   Foundation.
         (a)   Beneath the building or structure there shall be firm ground,
which is reasonably dry, properly drained and no water shall be running under
the building or structure.
         (b)   There shall be sound footings and adequate bearing.
         (c)   There shall be sound piers and no loose mortar or masonry.
         (d)   There shall be no piers in which the plumbline from the top
center falls outside the middle one-third of the pier base.
         (e)   There shall be no isolated masonry piers exceeding in height ten
times the least dimension of the pier.
         (f)   There shall be no wood stiff-knee piers.
      (2)   Floors.
         (a)   Flooring shall be weather-tight without holes or excessive
cracks which permit air to penetrate rooms.
         (b)   Flooring or floor covering shall be reasonably smooth and not
decayed, fire damaged or worn through.
         (c)   There shall be no loose flooring.
         (d)   Floors shall be reasonably level.
         (e)   All structural members shall be maintained free from
deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the dead and live
loads.
      (3)   Interior load bearing walls.
         (a)   There shall be no unsafe wall conditions such that the plumbline
from the top center studs falls outside the base plate at any point along the
wall.
         (b)   Maximum spacing for studding, providing the studs show signs of
being weak or overloaded, shall comply with the requirements of the State
Building Code.
         (c)   Studs or other structural members, including posts and columns,
shall be structurally sound and not likely to cause structural weaknesses in
the future.
         (d)   There shall be no broken or cracked structural members.
      (4)   Interior porches, landings and vestibules.
         (a)   The floor and ceiling shall be equal to the requirements set
forth in this chapter.
         (b)   Every stairway, deck, porch and balcony and all appurtenances
attached thereto, including, without limitation, handrails and guardrails,
shall be maintained in a structurally sound condition and in good repair.
         (c)   Any interior porch, landing or vestibule shall be properly
anchored and capable of supporting live and dead loads.
§ 152.20 PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Building structure. Storage of combustible materials is prohibited
unless the building or structure is designed for that purpose.
   (B)   Open areas.
      (1)   Surface and subsurface water shall be appropriately drained to
protect buildings and structures and to prevent development of stagnant pools.
      (2)   Fences, sheds, signs, outbuildings and other accessory buildings
shall be maintained in a safe and functional condition or removed or
demolished.
      (3)   Yards, courts, parking lots and driveways shall be kept clean and
free of physical hazards, garbage, junk, junked vehicles, vehicle parts and
other similar material.
      (4)   There shall be no heavy undergrowth or accumulation of plant growth
which is noxious or detrimental to health, or because it is overgrown, may
provide harborage for criminal activity.
      (5)   There shall be adequate lighting to prevent harborage for criminal
activity.
   (C)   Infestation. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained
free of infestation by rodents, insects and other pests.
   (D)   Garbage. There shall be adequate sanitary facilities and methods for
the storage, handling and disposal of garbage generated on or by the property.
   (E)   Storm drainage. Drainage of paved areas, yards, courts and other open
areas on the property shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a health
or safety hazard.
§ 152.21 VACANT BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The interior maintenance standards set forth in §
152.19 shall not apply to vacant non-residential buildings or structures unless
one or more of the following serious conditions is present on the property:
      (1)   Overall conditions present a serious health or safety hazard;
      (2)   The building or structure is a breeding area for rodents or
insects;
      (3)   The building or structure presents a fire hazard;
      (4)   The building or structure is structurally unsafe and presents a
threat to the safety of code enforcement personnel, Fire Department personnel
and law enforcement officers or members of the general public;
      (5)   The building or structure is frequented by vagrants; and
      (6)   The building or structure is not properly secured to prevent
unauthorized access.
   (B)   If the Code Enforcement Official orders a non-residential building or
structure vacated and closed pursuant to this chapter, the owner shall board
and secure such building or structure in accordance with the guidelines for
boarding and securing a building or structure provided by the Code Enforcement
Official.
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adoption by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Zoning Code can be found in the town’s Land Development
Code.
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD HAZARD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Adoption by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s Flood Hazard Damage Prevention Ordinance can be found in the
Flood Development Ordinance.
CHAPTER 155: STORMWATER
Section
   
155.01   Adoption by reference
§ 155.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s Stormwater Ordinance in enforced through an interlocal agreement
with the county.
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1987 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites               Code Section
1-117                    152.11
14-3.1                   92.076
                         34.99,
                         92.076,
                         92.999,
                         93.99,
                         95.99,
                         112.99,
14-4                     114.50,
                         115.99,
                         116.99,
                         130.99,
                         131.15,
                         151.043,
                         151.999,
                         152.13
14-4(a)                  10.99
Ch. 14, Art. 27A         131.02
14-286                   93.01
14-288.13                34.02
14-399                   92.016
14-409.32(2)             34.06
15-27.2                  152.05
Ch. 20                   131.12
20-4.01(27)j             70.01
20-37.6                  72.15
20-129(e)                74.18
20-134                   72.22
20-141(b)(l)             71.01
20-150(e)                71.06
                         70.17,
20-158                   70.18,
                         71.02
20-158.1                 71.04
20-160(a)                71.13
20-162                   72.15
20-171.24                Charter §
                         6
                         70.17,
                         70.18,
20-172                   70.19,
                         71.02,
                         71.04
20-173                   71.13
20-174                   71.13
Ch. 44A, Art. 1          92.053,
                         92.078
58-82-1                  93.01
Ch. 65, Art. 9           91.02
66-68 et seq.            114.04
105-350                  Charter §
                         5.4
106-700                  90.07
Ch. 130A                 151.006
Ch. 143, Art. 33C        30.27
143-138(e)               150.15
143-145(7)               151.006
                         30.15,
143-318.12               30.16,
                         30.17
Ch. 159                  30.26
Ch. 160A                 32.01,
                         32.03
160A-1                   Charter §
                         1.1
                         Charter §
Ch. 160A, Art. 7, part 2 5.1, §
                         5.5
Ch. 160A, Art. 10        151.042,
                         152.12
Ch. 160A, Art. 19        150.01
160A-58.1(b)(5)          Charter §
                         6
160A-63                  34.02
                         30.15,
160A-71                  30.16,
                         30.17
160A-72                  30.29
                         Charter §
160A-75                  3.6,
                         30.25,
                         30.26
160A-76                  30.26
160A-81                  30.28
160A-148                 31.15
160A-174                 114.01,
                         116.01
                         10.99,
                         93.99,
160A-175                 95.99,  
                         114.51 ,
                         130.99
160A-175(d) and (e)      151.999
160A-175(b)              92.076
160A-193                 92.075,
                         94.21
160A-194                 114.01,
                         116.01
160A-296                 130.06
160A-300                 130.06
160A-311                 110.01
160D-1119 (b), (c)       151.056
160D-1119 - 160D-1122    151.056
Ch. 160D, Article 12     151.001
160D-1201                151.001
160D-1203                151.039
160D-1203 (4) and (5)    151.041
160D-1203 (6)            151.042
160D-1203 (8)            151.039
160D-1205                151.001
160D-1206                151.039
160D-1208 (c)            151.039
160D-1208 (d)            151.039
160D-1208 (e)            151.039
163-292                  Charter §
                         4.1
Ch. 166A                 34.06
166A-8                   34.02
                         
 
REFERENCES TO 1987 CODE
1987 Cite Current Code Section
1987 Cite Current Code Section
11-1      92.001
11-2      92.015
11-3      92.016
11-4      92.017
11-5      92.018
11-16     92.030
11-17     92.031
11-18     92.032
11-19     92.032
11-20     92.033
11-21     92.034
11-22     92.035
11-23     92.036
11-24     92.037
11-25     92.038
11-26     92.039
11-31     92.050
11-32     92.051
11-33     92.052
11-34     92.053
11-35     92.054
11-36     92.055
11-37     92.056
11-43     92.072
11-49     92.078
11-53     92.999
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ordinance Date Passed Code Section
Ordinance    Date Passed Code Section
- -          7-7-97      92.072,
                         92.078
                         92.001,
                         92.015 -
                         92.018,
                         92.030 -
Res. 2018-04 5-17-18     92.039,
                         92.050 -
                         92.056,
                         92.070 -
                         92.078,
                         92.999
- -          7-16-2020   90.07
                         151.001   -  
                         151.006,
                         151.015   -  
                         151.022,
                         151.035 -
- -          11-18-2021  151.044,
                         151.055,
                         151.056,
                         151.085 -
                         151.091,
                         151.999
                         92.001,
                         92.032,
                         92.050 -
                         92.057,
- -          1-10-2022   92.071 -
                         92.073,
                         92.076,
                         92.078,
                         92.999
                         92.001,
                         92.015 -
- -          3-19-2024   92.018,
                         92.031 -
                         92.039,
                         92.999
- -          4-2-2024    94.20
                         34.99,
                         70.99,
                         71.01,
                         71.03,
                         72.17,
                         90.06,
- -          7-16-2024   93.99,
                         95.99,
                         110.99,
                         112.99,
                         115.99,
                         116.99,
                         130.99
2025-02      4-15-2025   95.04
                        
 
