CREEDMOOR, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2024 S-16 Supplement, current through
Ordinance 2024-O-01, passed 2-6-24; and
State legislation current through
2023 North Carolina Legislative Service, Pamphlet No. 6
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
CITY OFFICIALS
Georgana Kicinski, Mayor Pro-Tempore
Commissioners
Emma Albright
Ed Gleason
Georgana Kicinski
Robert Way
Archer Wilkins
Michael O. Turner, City Manager
Troy Wheless, Chief of Police
Lee Faines Jr., Finance Director
Camille Lockley, Administrative Services Director
Barbara Rouse, City Clerk
Michael Frangos, Community Development Director
Steve Edwards, Public Works Director
Kevin R. Hornik, City Attorney
 
CITY CHARTER
Section
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS, AND BOUNDARIES
   
1.1   Incorporation
   
1.2   Powers
   
1.3   Corporate limits
ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
   
2.1   City governing body
   
2.2   Composition; terms of office
   
2.3   Mayor; term of office; duties
   
2.4   Mayor pro tempore
   
2.5   Meetings
   
2.6   Quorum; voting
   
2.7   Vacancies
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
   
3.1   Regular municipal elections
   
3.2   Election of mayor
   
3.3   Election of commissioners
   
3.4   Special elections and referenda
ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
   
4.1   Form of government
   
4.2   City manager; appointment; powers and duties
   
4.3   City attorney
   
4.4   City clerk
   
4.5   Finance director
   
4.6   Tax collector
   
4.7   Other administrative officers and employees
ARTICLE V. ORDINANCES
   
5.1   Adoption and effective date
   
5.2   Effect of ordinances on city property
Editor’s note:
   The Charter of the City of Creedmoor was revised and consolidated by the
General Assembly of North Carolina Session Law 2017-79, Senate Bill 265,
ratified June 29, 2017.
ARTICLE I. INCORPORATION, CORPORATE POWERS, AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1 Incorporation.
   The City of Creedmoor, North Carolina, in Granville County, and the
inhabitants thereof, shall continue to be a municipal body politic and
corporate, under the name of the "City of Creedmoor," hereinafter at times
referred to as the "City."
Section 1.2 Powers.
   The city shall have and may exercise all of the powers, duties, rights,
privileges, and immunities conferred upon the City of Creedmoor specifically by
this charter or upon municipal corporations by general law. The term "general
law" is employed herein as defined in G.S. § 160A-1.
Section 1.3 Corporate limits.
   The corporate limits shall be those existing at the time of ratification of
this charter, as set forth on the official map of the city and as they may be
altered from time to time in accordance with law. An official map of the city,
showing the current municipal boundaries, shall be maintained permanently in
the office of the city clerk and shall be available for public inspection. Upon
alteration of the corporate limits pursuant to law, the appropriate changes to
the official map shall be made and copies shall be filed in the office of the
Secretary of State, the Granville County Register of Deeds, and the appropriate
board of elections.
ARTICLE II. GOVERNING BODY
Section 2.1 City governing body.
   The board of commissioners, hereinafter referred to as the "Board," and the
mayor shall be the governing body of the city.
Section 2.2 Composition; terms of office.
   The board of commissioners shall be composed of five (5) members, to be
elected by all the qualified voters of the city voting at large in the manner
provided in Article III of this charter. The members shall serve four (4) year
staggered terms as provided in
Section 3.3 of this charter or until their successors are elected and
qualified.
Section 2.3 Mayor; term of office; duties.
   The mayor shall be elected by all the qualified voters of the city voting at
large in the manner provided in Article III of this charter for a term of four
(4) years or until a successor is elected and qualified. The mayor shall be the
official head of the city government and shall preside at meetings of the
board, shall have the right to vote only when there is an equal division on any
question or matter before the board, and shall exercise the powers and duties
conferred by law or as directed by the board.
(Am. Ord. 2024-O-01, passed 2-6-24)
Section 2.4 Mayor pro tempore.
   In accordance with general law, the board shall elect from among its members
a mayor pro tempore to perform the duties of the mayor during the mayor's
absence or disability.
Section 2.5 Meetings.
   In accordance with general law, the board shall establish a suitable time
and place for its regular meetings. Special and emergency meetings may be held
as provided by general law.
Section 2.6 Quorum; voting.
   Official actions of the board and all votes shall be taken in accordance
with the applicable provisions of general law. The quorum provisions of G.S. §
160A-74 shall apply.
Section 2.7 Vacancies.
   Vacancies that occur in any elective office of the city shall be filled in
accordance with the applicable provisions of general law.
ARTICLE III. ELECTIONS
Section 3.1 Regular municipal elections.
   Regular municipal elections shall be held in each odd numbered year in
accordance with the uniform municipal election laws of North Carolina.
Elections shall be conducted on a nonpartisan basis and the results determined
using the nonpartisan plurality method as provided in G.S. § 163-292.
Section 3.2 Election of mayor.
   A mayor shall be elected in the regular municipal election in 2025 and every
four (4) years thereafter.
(Am. Ord. 2024-O-01, passed 2-6-24)
Section 3.3 Election of commissioners.
   The commissioners serving on the date of ratification of this charter shall
serve until the expiration of their terms or until their successors are elected
and qualified. In the regular municipal election in 2017, and quadrennially
thereafter, two (2) commissioners shall be elected to serve four (4) year terms
in those positions whose terms are then expiring. In the regular municipal
election in 2019, and quadrennially thereafter, three (3) commissioners shall
be elected to serve four (4) year terms in those positions whose terms are then
expiring.
Section 3.4 Special elections and referenda.
   Special elections and referenda may be held only as provided by general law
or applicable local acts enacted by the General Assembly.
ARTICLE IV. ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
Section 4.1 Form of government.
   The city shall operate under the council manager form of government in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Part 2, Article 7.
Section 4.2 City manager; appointment; powers and duties.
   The board shall appoint a city manager who shall be responsible for the
administration of all departments of the city government. The city manager
shall have all the powers and duties conferred by general law, except as
expressly limited by the provisions of this charter, and shall have the
additional powers and duties conferred by the board as authorized by general or
local law.
Section 4.3 City attorney.
   The board shall appoint a city attorney to represent the city, advise city
officials, and perform other duties required by law or directed by the board.
Section 4.4 City clerk.
   The city manager shall appoint a city clerk, subject to confirmation by a
majority vote of the board. The city manager shall direct and supervise the
city clerk and shall have authority to take disciplinary action regarding the
city clerk, including removal, in accordance with general personnel rules,
regulations, policies, or ordinances adopted by the board. The city clerk shall
keep a journal of the proceedings of the board, maintain official records and
documents, give notice of meetings, and perform other duties required by
general or local law or directed by the city manager.
Section 4.5 Finance director.
   The city manager shall appoint a finance director to perform the duties
prescribed in G.S. § 159- 25 and to perform other duties required by law or
assigned by the city manager.
Section 4.6 Tax collector.
   The board shall appoint a tax collector as provided in G.S. § 105-349 to
collect all taxes owed to the city and to perform the duties specified in G.S.
§ 105-350 and any other duties prescribed by general or local law.
Section 4.7 Other administrative officers and employees.
   The board may authorize other positions to be filled by appointment by the
city manager and may organize the city government as deemed appropriate,
subject to the requirements of general or local law.
ARTICLE V. ORDINANCES
Section 5.1 Adoption and effective date.
   The adoption, amendment, repeal, pleading, or proving of ordinances shall be
in accordance with general law unless otherwise provided for by this charter.
All ordinances and resolutions shall take effect upon adoption unless otherwise
provided for by general or local law or this charter.
Section 5.2 Effect of ordinances on city property.
   All applicable ordinances of the city shall have full force and effect upon
and within all property and facilities owned by the city, whether located
within or outside the corporate limits.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   [Reserved]
   
10.12   [Reserved]
   
10.13   Ordinances procedure; form; publication
   
10.14   Official copy
   
10.15   Ordinance book
   
10.16   Ordinances repealed
   
10.17   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.18   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.19   [Reserved]
   
10.20   [Reserved]
   
10.21   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalties; enforcement of ordinances; continuing violations
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Creedmoor shall be
designated as the Code of Creedmoor, North Carolina and may be so cited.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
   (B)   The construction of all ordinances of this city shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” if the sense requires it.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to
be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. The governing body of the City of Creedmoor,
North Carolina.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Creedmoor, North Carolina.
      CITY. The City of Creedmoor, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Granville County, North Carolina.
      GOVERNOR. The Governor of North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in these cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to any property, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or tenant by the entirety, of the whole
or a part of the property. For the purposes of
Chapter 151, “Minimum Housing Standards,” the owner shall also include every
mortgage of record.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      STREET. Any public way, road, highway, street, avenue, boulevard,
parkway, dedicated alley, lane, viaduct, bridge and the approaches thereto
within the city and shall mean the entire width of the right-of-way between
abutting property lines.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or a part of the building or land, whether alone
or with others.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.06 [RESERVED.]
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.11 [RESERVED.]
§ 10.12 [RESERVED.]
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES PROCEDURE; FORM; PUBLICATION.
   Every ordinance amending or repealing any ordinance and every new ordinance
shall be proposed in writing and shall have ordinance numbers and section
captions.
(`84 Code, § 2-1041) (Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.14 OFFICIAL COPY.
   A true copy of an ordinance, which has been duly enacted by the Board,
signed by the Mayor, and attested to by the Clerk shall be known as an official
copy of any ordinance.
(`84 Code, § 2-1043) (Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
Statutory reference:
Pleading and proving city ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-79
§ 10.15 ORDINANCE BOOK.
   The Clerk shall file a true copy of each ordinance, until it is codified in
this code, in an ordinance book separate and apart from the Board’s minute
book. The ordinance book shall be appropriately indexed and maintained for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk.
(`84 Code, § 2-1044)
Statutory reference:
Similar requirements on the ordinance book, see G.S. § 160A-78
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.18 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.19 [RESERVED.]
§ 10.20 [RESERVED.]
§ 10.21 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am.
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text of
the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example: (G.S. § 160A-
11) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-85)
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1984 and subsequently amended, the 1984
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(`84 Code, §    ).”
(Am. Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTIES; ENFORCEMENT OF ORDINANCES; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   Violation of any city ordinance shall constitute a civil violation
and may subject the offender to any and all of the civil remedies listed in
this section, including but not limited to civil penalties.
      (2)   Additionally, violations of ordinances may subject the offender to
criminal prosecution including but not limited to being charged with a Class 3
misdemeanor and a criminal fine of not more than $500, if and only if the
ordinance specifies that said ordinance may be enforced by misdemeanor
citation.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a violation of an ordinance
regulating the operation or parking of vehicles may be charged as an infraction
and may subject the offender to a criminal penalty of not more than $50, if and
only if the ordinance specifies that said ordinance may be enforced by
infraction and criminal penalty.
      (4)   If a civil penalty is levied and not paid to the city within 30
days of the issuance of a citation, may be recovered by the city in a civil
action in the nature of debt. Unless otherwise provided by a specific provision
of any city ordinance, said civil penalties shall be in the amount of $50 for
each violation and each day any single violation continues shall be a separate
violation.
      (5)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
any city ordinance may be enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing
from a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the General Court of
Justice shall have jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and
it shall not be a defense to the application of the city for equitable relief
that there is an adequate remedy at law.
      (6)   In addition to the civil penalties set out above, any provision of
any city ordinance that makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of
real property may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement by the
General Court of Justice. When a violation of such a provision occurs, the city
may apply to the appropriate division of the General Court of Justice for a
mandatory or prohibitory injunction and/or order of abatement commanding the
defendant to correct the unlawful condition upon or cease the unlawful use of
the property. The action shall be governed in all respects by the laws and
rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules of Civil Procedure in
general and Rule 65 in particular.
      (7)   An order of abatement may direct that buildings or other structures
on the property be closed, demolished or removed; that fixtures, furniture or
other movable property be removed from buildings on the property; that grass
and weeds be cut; that abandoned or junked vehicles be removed; that
improvements or repairs be made; or that any other action be taken that is
necessary to bring the property into compliance with the applicable city
ordinance. If the defendant fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or
with an order of abatement within the time allowed by the court, he or she may
be cited for contempt, and the city may execute the order of abatement. The
city shall have a lien on the property for the cost of executing an order of
abatement in the nature of a mechanic's and materialman's lien. The defendant
may secure cancellation of an order of abatement by paying all costs of the
proceedings and posting a bond for compliance with the order. The bond shall be
given with sureties approved by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount
approved by the judge before whom the matter is heard and shall be conditioned
on the defendant's full compliance with the terms of the order of abatement
within a time fixed by the judicial order. Cancellation of an order of
abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction issued in conjunction
therewith.
      (8)   The provisions of any city ordinance may be enforced by one, all,
or a combination of the remedies authorized and prescribed by this section.
      (9)   Any ordinances hereafter adopted by the Board of Commissioners of
the city, the violation of which shall incur a penalty, shall specify whether
the enforcement shall be pursuant to the civil penalty and/or criminal penalty
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Process and notice of violation.
      (1)   Upon determination of a violation of any section of any city
ordinance, the penalty for which is a civil penalty, the enforcement official
of the city shall cause a warning citation to be issued to the violator, either
in person or posted in the United States mail service by first class mail
addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in the records
of the county. Such warning citation shall set out the nature of the violation,
the section violated, the date of the violation, and shall contain an order to
immediately cease the violation. If the violation is in the nature of an
infraction for which an order of abatement would be appropriate in a civil
proceeding, a reasonable period of time must be stated in which the violation
must be abated. The warning citation shall either include a levy of civil
penalties or specify that a second citation shall incur a civil penalty,
together with costs, and attorney fees.
      (2)   A person shall have 30 days from receipt of the written notice
within which to file an appeal with the board of adjustment. Any other person
with standing to appeal shall have 30 days from receipt from any source of
actual or constructive notice of the decision within which to file an appeal
with the board of adjustment. The board of adjustment may reverse or affirm,
wholly or partly, or may modify the decision appealed from and shall make any
order, requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made. The board
shall have all the powers of the official who made the decision.
      (3)   Where the enforcement official of the city determines that the
period of time stated in the original warning citation is not sufficient for
abatement based upon the work required or consent agreement, the enforcement
official may amend the warning citation to provide for additional time.
      (4)   Upon failure of the violator to obey the warning citation, a civil
citation may be issued by the enforcement official, either served directly on
the violator, his or her duly designated agent, or registered agent if a
corporation, either in person or posted in the United States mail service by
first class mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as
contained in the records of the county or obtained from the violator at the
time of issuance of the warning citation. The violator shall be deemed to have
been served upon the mailing of said citation. The citation shall direct the
violator to appear before the City Manager of the city, or designee, within 15
days of the date of the citation, or alternatively to pay the citation by mail.
The violation for which the citation is issued must have been corrected by the
time the citation is paid, otherwise further citations shall be issued.
Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues until the prohibited
activity is ceased or abated.
      (5)   If the violator fails to respond to a citation within 30 days of
its issuance, and pay the penalty prescribed therein, the city may institute a
civil action in the nature of debt in the appropriate division of the North
Carolina General Court of Justice for the collection of the penalty, costs,
attorney fees, and such other relief as permitted by law.
(Am. Ord. 2010-O-15, passed 12-14-10; Am. Ord. 2015-O-09, passed 6-15-15; Am.
Ord. 2017-O-03, passed 2-21-17; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Enforcement of ordinances, see G.S. §§ 14-4 and 160A-175
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT
   
31.   CITY ORGANIZATION
   
32.   FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
   
33.   [RESERVED]
   
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: CITY GOVERNMENT
Section
Mayor and Board of Commissioners
   
30.01   Charter amendment; Council-Manager form of government
   
30.02   Board; general powers and duties
   
30.03   Mayor; duties
   
30.04   Selection and duties of the Mayor pro tempore
   
30.05   Committees appointed by Mayor; reports; compensation
   
30.06   Responsibilities and duties of committees
   
30.07   Compensation of Mayor and Board
   
30.08   Rules of procedure
MAYOR AND BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
§ 30.01 CHARTER AMENDMENT; COUNCIL-MANAGER FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   Pursuant to G.S. §§ 160A-101 and 160A-102, the Charter of the city as set
forth in the Code of Ordinances of the city, as amended, is hereby further
amended to provide that the city shall operate under the Council-Manager form
of government in accordance with G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2 and any
charter provisions not in conflict therewith.
(Ord. 97-O-15, passed 10-1-97; Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
§ 30.02 BOARD; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Board shall be as set out in the general
statutes of the state, the city Charter and the ordinances of the city.
(`84 Code, § 2-1002) (Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
§ 30.03 MAYOR; DUTIES.
   The Mayor shall be the official head of the city government, and as such,
shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Keep himself or herself informed as to the city’s business;
   (B)   Preside over the meetings of the Board of Commissioners in accordance
with the Board’s Rules of Procedure;
   (C)   Sign all contracts, ordinances, resolutions, franchises and all other
documents as authorized by the Board, unless said authority has been delegated
to the City Manager or other city employee;
   (D)   Appoint all committees and outline their duties, under the general
direction of the Board;
   (E)   Make recommendations to the Board concerning the affairs of the city,
as he or she deems necessary;
   (F)   Represent the city at ceremonies and other official occasions; and
   (G)   Perform other duties as authorized by the general statutes, the city
charter and this code.
(`84 Code, § 2-1003) (Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Mayor, see G.S. § 160A-67 and G.S. § 160A-69
§ 30.04 SELECTION AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   The Board shall elect the Mayor Pro Tempore to serve for a term of 12
months beginning with the organizational meeting of the Board of Commissioners
each December in odd years. At the same meeting, the Board shall elect the
successor Mayor Pro Tempore to serve a succeeding 12- month period until his or
her successor is sworn in. Notwithstanding this, each Mayor Pro Tempore so
elected shall continue to serve until his or her successor takes the oath of
office.
   (B)   The Mayor Pro Tempore shall be entitled to vote on all matters and
shall be considered a Board member for all purposes, including the
determination of whether a quorum is present.
   (C)   In the Mayor’s absence, the Board may confer on the Mayor Pro Tempore
any of the Mayor’s powers and duties. If the Mayor should become physically or
mentally unable to perform the duties of his or her office, the Board may by
unanimous vote declare that the Mayor is incapacitated and confer any of the
Mayor’s powers and duties on the Mayor Pro Tempore. When a Mayor declares that
he or she is no longer incapacitated, and a majority of the Board concurs, the
Mayor shall resume exercise of his or her powers and duties. If both the Mayor
and the Mayor Pro Tempore are absent from a meeting, the Board may elect from
among its members a temporary Chair to preside at the meeting.
(`84 Code, § 2-1004) (Am. Res. 2009-R-18, passed 12-15-09; Am. Ord. 2016-O-22,
passed 11-15-16)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor pro tem, see G.S. § 160A-70
§ 30.05 COMMITTEES APPOINTED BY MAYOR; REPORTS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   As provided in §
30.07, committees shall, unless otherwise ordered by the Board, be appointed by
the Mayor.
   (B)   Committee members shall receive such compensation for extra and
special service as the Board may designate.
(`84 Code, § 2-1006) (Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
§ 30.06 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Each committee shall be responsible for making recommendations to the
Mayor and Board of Commissioners on issues related to the subject matter
assigned to their committee.
   (B)   All reports of committees shall be in writing.
(`84 Code, § 2-1007) (Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
§ 30.07 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND BOARD.
   The compensation of the Mayor and Board members shall be as provided in the
annual budget- ordinance, and as the same may be amended from time to time.
(`84 Code, § 2-1008) (Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of Mayor and Board members, see G.S. § 160A-64
§ 30.08 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board of Commissioners shall use the “Rules of Procedure for the
Creedmoor Board of Commissioners,” which were adopted by the Board on April 6,
2021, and as may be amended by the Board.
(Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16; Am. Ord. 2020-O-01, passed 2-4-20; Am.
Ord. 2021-O-04, passed 4-6-21; Am. Ord. 2023-O-02, passed 1-17-23)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATION
Section
   
31.01   City Manager
   
31.02   City Clerk
   
31.03   City Attorney
   
31.04   SBI Division of Criminal Information System
§ 31.01 CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager is appointed by the board and shall hold his office at the
pleasure of the board. The City Manager shall be the Chief Administrator of the
city. As provided for in G.S. §160A-148, he shall be responsible to the board
for administering all municipal affairs placed in his charge by them, and shall
have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Appoint and suspend or remove all city officers and employees not
elected by the people, and whose appointment or removal is not otherwise
provided for by law, except the city attorney, in accordance with such general
personnel rules, regulations, policies, or ordinances as the board may adopt.
   (B)   Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices,
and agencies of the city, subject to the general direction and control of the
board, except as otherwise provided by law.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law, may consolidate any two or more
positions and assign the duties of both positions to one or more persons.
   (D)   Attend all meetings of the board and recommend any measures that he
deems expedient.
   (E)   See that all laws of the state, the city charter, and the ordinances,
resolutions, and regulations of the board are faithfully executed within the
city.
   (F)   Prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to the board.
   (G)   Enter into contractual agreements that commit the city to purchase
goods and services as provided for in the city's purchasing policy as amended.
   (H)   Annually submit to the board and make available to the public a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the city as of
the end of the fiscal year.
   (I)   Make any other reports that the board may require concerning the
operations of city departments, offices, and agencies subject to his/her
direction and control.
   (J)   Perform any other duties that may be required or authorized by the
board.
(Ord. 2016-O22, passed 11-15-16)
§ 31.02 CITY CLERK.
   As provided for in G.S. § 160A-171, there shall be a City Clerk who shall:
   (A)   Give notice of meetings of the board;
   (B)   Keep a journal of the proceedings of the board;
   (C)   Be the custodian of all city records; and
   (D)   Shall perform any other duties that may be required by law or the City
Manager.
(Ord. 2016-O22, passed 11-15-16)
§ 31.03 CITY ATTORNEY.
   As provided for in G.S. § 160A-173, the Board shall appoint a City Attorney
to serve at its pleasure and to be its legal advisor. The City Attorney shall
perform any other duties required of him by the Board, other laws, and the city
ordinances.
(`84 Code, § 2-2002) (Ord. 2016-O22, passed 11-15-16)
Cross-reference:
   City Attorney, see Charter §§
5.1 and
5.2
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Attorney, see G.S. § 160A-173
§ 31.04 SBI DIVISION OF CRIMINAL INFORMATION SYSTEM.
   (A)   Applicants for appointment shall be selected on the basis of job-
related qualification standards, ensuring equal employment opportunity for
qualified applicants.
   (B)   Candidates for positions may be required to drive either a city-owned
or personally-owned vehicle in the course of employment.
   (C)   In order to protect the citizens of the city and their properties, the
procedures herein are established to provide for fingerprinting and criminal
history checks on all final applicants for regular full and part-time
positions. Subject to division (D)(3) of this section, employment with the city
may be denied for those persons convicted of any crime against a person, or
crimes against property where intent is an element, or any drug or gambling
related offense.
   (D)   The procedures for use of the State Bureau of Investigation's Division
of Criminal Information system in this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   The Human Resources Director, or designee, shall conduct an
investigation of any final candidate for a city position. It shall be a
precondition of employment that an applicant for a position shall, upon
request, provide fingerprints and all other necessary personal identification
including a birth certificate and social security number so that the Chief of
Police, or designee, may cause a thorough search to be made of state criminal
records to determine if the applicant has been convicted of a crime.
      (2)   The Chief of Police, or designee, shall provide the findings made
by use of the Division of Criminal Information (DCI) records to the Human
Resources Director, or designee, according to the fully-executed Access
Agreement on file with the State Bureau of Investigation's Division of Criminal
Information.
      (3)   An evaluation of a criminal conviction for purposes of employment
will take into account the nature, circumstances, and length of time since the
offense as they relate to the essential job functions for the position.
      (4)   No action to deny employment will be taken until the Chief of
Police, or designee, confirms the identity of the applicant by a match of the
applicant's fingerprints to the State Bureau of Investigation or a certified
true copy of the public record document is retrieved.
(Ord. 2016-O22, passed 11-15-16)
Statutory reference:
   Authorizes municipal governments to establish personnel rules by ordinance
or policy, G.S. § 160A-164.
CHAPTER 32: FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION
Section
General
   
32.01   Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act
Surplus Property; Disposal
   
32.05   City Manager’s authority; determination
   
32.06   Means of disposal
   
32.07   Sale
   
32.08   Records
GENERAL
§ 32.01 LOCAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET AND FISCAL CONTROL ACT.
   (A)   No bill or claim against the city may be paid unless it has been
approved by the officer or employee responsible for the function or agency to
which the expense is charged.
   (B)   No check or draft of the city shall be valid unless it bears on its
face the certificate of the purchasing agent as follows: "This disbursement has
been approved as required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control
Act."
   (C)   No contract, agreement or purchase order shall be valid unless it
bears the purchasing agent's certificate as follows: "This instrument has been
pre-audited in the manner required by the Local Government Budget and Fiscal
Control Act."
(Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
SURPLUS PROPERTY; DISPOSAL
§ 32.05 CITY MANAGER'S AUTHORITY; DETERMINATION.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to dispose of any surplus personal
property owned by the city, whenever he or she determines, in his or her
discretion, that:
   (A)   The item or group of items has a fair market value of less than
$5,000;
   (B)   The property is no longer necessary for the conduct of public
business; and
   (C)   Sound property management principles and financial considerations
indicate that the interests of the city would best be served by disposing of
the property.
(Ord. 98-O-01, passed 3-24-98; Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
Statutory reference:
   Disposal of property, G.S. § 160A-266(c).
§ 32.06 MEANS OF DISPOSAL.
   The City Manager may dispose of any such surplus personal property by any
means which he or she judges reasonably calculated to yield the highest
attainable sale price in money or other consideration, including but not
limited to the methods of sale provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 12. The
sale may be public or private, and with or without notice and minimum waiting
period.
(Ord. 98-O-01, passed 3-24-98; Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
§ 32.07 SALE.
   (A)   The surplus personal property shall be sold to the party who tenders
the highest offer, or exchanged for any property or services useful to the city
if greater value may be obtained in that manner, and the City Manager is hereby
authorized to execute and deliver any applicable title documents.
   (B)   If no offers are received within a reasonable time, the City Manager
may retain the property, obtain any reasonably available salvage value, or
cause it to be disposed of as waste material.
   (C)   No surplus personal property valued greater than $100 may be donated
to any individual or organization except by resolution of the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. 98-O-01, passed 3-24-98; Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
§ 32.08 RECORDS.
   The City Manager shall keep a record of all property sold under authority of
this subchapter and the record shall generally describe the property sold or
exchanged, to whom it was sold, or with whom exchanged, and the amount of money
or other consideration received for each sale or exchange.
(Ord. 98-O-01, passed 3-24-98; Am. Ord. 2016-O-22, passed 11-15-16)
CHAPTER 33: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   State of emergency; existence
   
34.02   Mayor’s powers
   
34.03   Restrictions
   
34.04   Proclamation
   
34.05   Unlawful activity
Statutory reference: 
   Authority of the Mayor to declare an emergency, see G.S. § 166A-19.15
§ 34.01 STATE OF EMERGENCY; EXISTENCE.
   A state of emergency shall be deemed to exist whenever, during times of
great public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe or similar public
emergency, for any reason municipal public safety authorities are unable to
maintain public order or afford adequate protection for lives or property.
(`84 Code, § 3-3001)
§ 34.02 MAYOR’S POWERS.
   (A)   In the event of an existing or threatened state of emergency
endangering the lives, safety, health and welfare of the people within the
city, or threatening damage to or destruction of property, the Mayor is hereby
authorized and empowered to issue a public proclamation declaring to all
persons the existence of a state of emergency, and, in order to more
effectively protect the lives and property of people within the city, to place
in effect any or all of the restrictions hereinafter authorized.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to limit by the
proclamation, the application of all or any part of the restrictions to any
area specifically designated or described within the corporate limits of the
city, and to specific hours of the day or night; and to exempt from all or any
part of the restrictions law enforcement officers, firefighters and other
public employees, doctors, nurses, employees of hospitals and other medical
facilities; on-duty military personnel whether state or federal; on-duty
employees of public utilities, public transportation companies, and newspaper,
magazine, radio broadcasting, and television broadcasting corporations operated
for profit; and other classes of persons as may be essential to the
preservation of public order and immediately necessary to serve the safety,
health and welfare needs of the people within the city.
   (C)   The Mayor shall proclaim the end of the state of emergency or all or
any part of the restrictions imposed as soon as circumstances warrant or when
directed to do so by the Board.
(`84 Code, § 3-3001)
§ 34.03 RESTRICTIONS.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, the Mayor may
impose by proclamation any or all of the following restrictions:
   (A)   Prohibit or regulate the possession off one’s own premises of
explosives, firearms, ammunition or dangerous weapons of any kind, and prohibit
the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition thereof;
   (B)   Prohibit or regulate the buying or selling of beer, wine or
intoxicating beverages of any kind, and their possession or consumption off
one’s own premises;
   (C)   Prohibit or regulate any demonstration, parade, march, vigil or
participation therein from taking place on any of the public ways or upon any
public property;
   (D)   Prohibit or regulate the sale of gasoline, kerosene, naphtha or any
other explosive or inflammable fluids or substances;
   (E)   Prohibit or regulate travel upon any public street, alley or roadway
or upon any other public property, except by those in search of medical
assistance, food or other commodity or service necessary to sustain the well-
being of themselves or their families or other member thereof; and/or
   (F)   Prohibit or regulate the participation in or carrying on of any
business activity, and prohibit and regulate the keeping open of places of
business, places of entertainment and any other places of public assembly.
(`84 Code, § 3-3001)
§ 34.04 PROCLAMATION.
   Any proclamation may be extended, altered or repealed in any particular way
during the continued or threatened existence of a state of emergency by the
issuance of a subsequent proclamation.
(`84 Code, § 3-3001)
§ 34.05 UNLAWFUL ACTIVITY.
   During the existence of a proclaimed state of emergency, it shall be
unlawful for any person to violate any provision of any restriction imposed by
any proclamation authorized by this chapter.
(`84 Code, § 3-3001) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   SOLID WASTE
   
51.   GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
   
52.   WATER REGULATIONS
   
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
   
54.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Approved deposit of refuse
   
50.03   Burning or burying regulations
   
50.04   Accumulation prohibited
   
50.05   Collection fees
Receptacles and Collection
   
50.15   Containers required
   
50.16   Pre-collection practices
   
50.17   Collection schedule and rules
   
50.18   Unlawful to displace containers
   
50.19   Special or bulk collections regulated
   
50.20   Removal of dead animals
Cross-reference:
   Public Works and Utilities Director, see §
31.20
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIAL SCRAPS. Scrap building material from the construction,
reconstruction, remodeling or repair of a building, walkway, driveway, sign and
other structure, including but not limited to, excavated earth, tree stumps,
rocks, gravel, bricks, plaster, concrete, lumber or any other similar material
used in construction or the containers or wrappings therefor.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses and recognizable industrial by-products, but
excluding sewage and human wastes.
   REFUSE. All non-putrescible wastes, including items intended for recycling
and recycled collection.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash, and other discarded solid
materials, including solid waste materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and community activities,
but not including solids or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or other
significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt, dissolved or suspended
solids in industrial waste, water effluents, dissolved materials in irrigation
return flows or other common water pollutants.
   YARD WASTE. Tree limbs, leaves, shrubbery, weeds, plants or grass.
(`84 Code, § 4-2001) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-02, passed 3-16-15)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to regulate trash and garbage, see G.S. § 160A-303.1
§ 50.02 APPROVED DEPOSIT OF REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit any garbage,
solid waste, or refuse of any kind on any public or private property except in
approved containers or as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(`84 Code, § 4-2002) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-02, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 BURNING OR BURYING REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to burn or set fire to or bury any garbage, solid
waste, or refuse for the purpose of disposal. The city offers residential yard
waste pick-up service, no burning of leaves, branches, or yard waste is
allowed. Open burning for land clearing or right of way maintenance may be
permissible under certain conditions. Contact the City Building Inspector for
further details on permitted burning. Regulations of the North Carolina State
Fire Prevention Code and the North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources shall be followed.
(`84 Code, § 4-2003) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-02, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   All businesses and residential dwellings in the city must have adequate
solid waste service. All garbage, solid waste, and refuse shall be collected
and placed in containers as required by this chapter. It shall be unlawful for
any person or business to permit garbage or refuse to pile up, accumulate, be
stored or remain on any premises longer than is reasonably necessary to remove
and deposit same in approved containers as required herein.
(`84 Code, § 4-2004) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-02, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 COLLECTION FEES.
   Periodic garbage and refuse collection fees shall be assessed to each
separate residential and/or business premise within the city according to fees
established by the trash service provider contracted by the city.
(Ord. 2015-O-02; passed 3-16-15)
RECEPTACLES AND COLLECTION
§ 50.15 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   The contracted trash service provider shall provide containers in
which shall be deposited all garbage and refuse existing at the building or
premises.
   (B)   All containers shall be kept in a reasonably clean condition by the
user.
(Ord. 2015-O-02; passed 3-16-15)
§ 50.16 PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   Ashes and cinders shall be placed in a separate container equipped with a
cover and no ashes shall be deposited in any container until they are cold.
(Ord. 2015-O-02; passed 3-16-15)
§ 50.17 COLLECTION SCHEDULE AND RULES.
   (A)   Garbage and refuse will be collected by the contracted trash service
provider according to a collection schedule and rules established and
maintained in their offices.
   (B)   All containers shall be placed by the curb, in the planting strip, or
by the roadway no earlier than 6:00 p.m. on the evening before the scheduled
refuse collection day. Empty containers must be removed from the curb, planting
strip or roadway by 8:00 a.m. the morning after the scheduled refuse collection
day.
(Am. Ord. 2013-O-11, passed 7-8-13; Am. Ord. 2015-O-02, passed 3-16-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.18 UNLAWFUL TO DISPLACE CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, except the owner or upon permission or
at the request of the owner, to damage, displace or to otherwise interfere with
garbage containers or their contents.
(`84 Code, § 4-2008) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-02, passed 3-16-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.19 SPECIAL OR BULK COLLECTIONS REGULATED.
   (A)   No building materials, iron, metal, bushes or tree limbs will be
collected by the trash service provider. It is the owners' responsibility to
properly dispose of unused building materials and debris.
   (B)   Bulk items will be picked up by the Public Works Department after the
property owners make arrangements through City Hall. Pick up for bulk items
will be at a rate and schedule established in the city's annual fee schedule.
   (C)   White goods (refrigerators, ranges, washers, and the like) will be
picked up at a rate and schedule established in the city's annual fee schedule.
(`84 Code, § 4-2009) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-02, passed 3-16-15)
§ 50.20 REMOVAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   Dead animals will be removed from any public right-of-way premises upon
notice to the Public Works Director of the existence of the dead animals.
(`84 Code, § 4-2010) (Am. Ord. 2015-O-02, passed 3-16-15)
CHAPTER 51: GENERAL WATER AND SEWER PROVISIONS
Section
Extensions by Petition
   
51.01   Extensions by petition
Development Fees
   
51.15   Development fees
Cross-reference:
   Public Works and Utilities Director, see §
31.20
EXTENSIONS BY PETITION
§ 51.01 EXTENSIONS BY PETITION.
   (A)   Water mains will not hereafter be laid in any street of the city
without an assessment therefor, except in those streets where the city may
order increased size water mains for additional water distribution or for fire
protection. Sewer lines will not hereafter be laid in any street of the city
without an assessment therefor. All such assessments shall be made in
accordance with the applicable provisions of G.S. Chapter 160A pertaining to
assessments for water and sewer line extensions.
(`84 Code, 5-3001)
   (B)   All parties on a city street or other such passway desiring an
extension of the city water system or the city sewer system must present a
signed petition to the Board of Commissioners, the signers constituting a
majority both in number and in property footage abutting on the proposed water
or sewer extension in order to obtain Board approval of the sewer main
extension. Forms for petitions will be furnished by the City Clerk’s office.
(`84 Code, § 5-3002)
   (C)   Upon completion of construction of a water or sewer extension under an
approved petition, property owners abutting the extension will pay for the
entire cost to the city of the water or sewer main, including manholes and
connection portions of the mains necessary to serve the line, according to
their respective front footage. Any exemptions granted under divisions (D) and
(E) of this section shall be treated as a part of the total cost of the line
under this division.
(`84 Code, § 5-3003)
   (D)   (1)    In the case where a property owner is located on a street
corner and has access to, and has paid for, or has been assessed for his or her
property footage abutting on a sewer main on one street, and developments
require that a sewer main be constructed on the other street, in order to avoid
unduly penalizing this property owner due to assessment, the city will absorb
100 feet of the last sewer main constructed.
      (2)    Where the property owner’s property extends through an entire city
block and fronts on two streets, the depth being as much as 200 feet, then, in
the event that a sewer main is petitioned and approved and constructed on both
the street on the front and the street on the back of the property, the
property owner will be assessed for his or her property footage on both streets
and must pay on the second street when he or she connects to the sewer line
situated there.
(`84 Code, § 5-3004)
   (E)   (1)   Where a property owner abuts on a street which is served by a
sewer main installed subsequent to the adoption of this policy for the purpose
of conveying sewerage from a petitioned sewer main along the route to the point
of its disposal, the cost of this line having been borne by the city, upon
connecting, this property owner will be required to pay his or her part of the
cost of the sewer main on the footage basis as if he or she abutted on a
petitioned and approved sewer main.
      (2)   Any property owner having access to a sewer main such as an outfall
or other sewer other than a city sewer by easement or abutment shall, upon
connection of the sewer main, pay a flat fee in an amount as established from
time to time by action of the Board of Commissioners, plus the usual tapping
charges.
(`84 Code, § 5-3005)
   (F)   Whenever an individual property owner or group constructs at his or
her expense a sewer main on a street, the city will uphold the right of the
owners to recover a just payment from any property owner abutting on this sewer
main on a pro-rata front foot basis who did not participate in the payment of
the construction of the sewer main, should the latter desire to connect to it.
(`84 Code, § 5-3006) (Ord. passed 2-23-82)
DEVELOPMENT FEES
§ 51.15 DEVELOPMENT FEES.
   (A)   Development fees are to be charged instead of connection fees when
water and sewer lines and all other appurtenants, such as meters, meter boxes,
valves and the like, including sewer pump stations are installed by a developer
of ten or more new residential units, per phase developed, according to the
city’s specifications.
   (B)   The plans for the development must be approved by an engineer
designated by city.
   (C)   The cost of the engineering review shall be paid by the developer
prior to approval of the final plat or issuance of any occupancy permit. The
cost shall be as established by the annual rate schedule.
   (D)   All fees must be paid at the time that the plumbing permit is
obtained.
(Ord. 2000-O-12, passed 6-27-00)
CHAPTER 52: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
   
52.01   Adopted by reference
§ 52.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The SGWASA (South Granville Water and Sewer Authority) Ordinance titled
“Water Rules and Regulations” originally adopted December 2005 and revised as
of November 2009 and all future amendments, attached to said ordinances are
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2015-O-14, passed 7-6-15)
CHAPTER 53: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
53.01   Adopted by reference
§ 53.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The SGWASA (South Granville Water and Sewer Authority) Ordinance titled
“Sewer Use Ordinance” originally adopted December 2005 and revised as of July
2013, and “Oil and Grease Ordinance,” originally adopted March 2007 and all
future amendments, attached to said ordinances are hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2015-O-15, passed 7-6-15)
CHAPTER 54: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Findings
   
54.02   Purpose
   
54.03   Definitions
   
54.04   Establishment of a stormwater management utility and Stormwater
Management Enterprise Fund
   
54.05   Jurisdiction
Rates and Charges
   
54.15   Rate structure
   
54.16   Schedule of fees and charges
   
54.17   Billing and collection
   
54.18   Disposition of service charges and fees
   
54.19   Exemptions and credits applicable to stormwater management service
charges
Cross-reference:
   Debris in stormwater drainage system, see §
96.09
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 FINDINGS.
   The Board does hereby find that:
   (A)   Water quality standards mandated by state and federal law are
requiring that local governments develop more detailed, advanced, and costly
stormwater programs.
   (B)   Effective stormwater management should be provided to protect, to the
extent practicable, the citizens of the city from the loss of life and property
damage from flooding.
   (C)   The construction, operation, and maintenance of stormwater conveyance
systems requires long term planning and stable and adequate funding.
   (D)   G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 16, authorizes the city to acquire,
construct, establish, enlarge, improve, extend, maintain, own, operate, and
contract for the operation of stormwater management programs designed to
protect water quality by controlling the level of pollutants in, and the
quantity and flow of, stormwater and structural and natural stormwater and
drainage systems of all types.
   (E)   The establishment of a stormwater management utility that would be
accounted for as a separate enterprise fund and would facilitate the provision
of a stormwater management program is reasonable and in the public interest.
   (F)   G.S. § 160A-314 authorizes the city to establish and revise, from time
to time, a schedule of rates and charges to fund the stormwater management
program activities including both structural and natural stormwater conveyance
and drainage system services provided by the stormwater management utility.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 54.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   A stormwater management utility is hereby created as an identified
fiscal and accounting fund for the purpose of comprehensively addressing the
stormwater management needs of the city.
   (B)   The city's stormwater management needs are met herein:
      (1)   Through programs designed to protect and manage water quality and
quantity by controlling the level of pollutants in stormwater runoff, and the
quantity and rate of stormwater received and conveyed by structural and natural
stormwater and drainage systems of all types;
      (2)   By establishing a schedule of charges;
      (3)   By defining the control, collection, and disbursal of funds; and
      (4)   By setting forth penalties, methods of appeals and exemptions.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 54.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPED LAND. A land parcel altered from its natural state.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Natural and structural channels, swales, ditches, swamps,
rivers, streams, creeks, wetlands, branches, reservoirs, ponds, drainage ways,
inlets, catch basins, gutters, pipes, culverts, bridges, head walls, storm
sewers, lakes, and other physical works, properties, and improvements that
transfer, control, convey or otherwise influence the movement of stormwater
runoff.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit of measure of impervious surface
(in square feet) that represents the impervious surface area on the average
single family residential parcel in the underlying jurisdiction as a unit of
comparison. ERU shall mean for the purposes of this chapter 2,600 square feet
of impervious surface.
   GROSS PARCEL AREA. The property area contained within the legally described
boundaries of a property or the total lot size of a property, in acres.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Developed areas of land that prevent or significantly
impede the infiltration of stormwater into the soil. Typical impervious
surfaces include, but are not limited to: roofs, sidewalks, walkways, patios,
swimming pools, private driveways, parking lots, access extensions, alleys and
other paved, engineered, compacted or gravel surfaces containing materials that
prevent or significantly impede the natural infiltration of stormwater into the
soil. IMPERVIOUS SURFACE AREA is synonymous with BUILT UPON AREA (BUA) as
defined in the Falls Model Stormwater Ordinance for New Development as approved
by the North Carolina Environmental Management Commission on March 10, 2011.
   NATURAL STATE. Shall describe existing undeveloped land where the soil and
vegetation characteristics have not been substantially modified or disturbed by
human activities and the hydrologic function is in an unaltered or natural
condition.
   SERVICE AREA. All land within the corporate limits of the city.
   SERVICE CHARGE. A stormwater management service charge, applicable to a land
parcel, which generally reflects the impact on or demand for stormwater
management services provided by the city to properly control and manage
stormwater runoff quantity and/or quality associated with the land parcel. The
service charge will vary from one land parcel to another based on the
impervious surface and gross parcel areas. The service charge may vary for the
same class of service in different areas of the service area and may vary
according to classes of service.
   SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL PARCEL. A parcel with a single family residential
structure used as a single family dwelling and whose primary use is as a single
family residence.
   STORMWATER. The runoff from precipitation that travels over natural state or
developed land surfaces and enters a drainage system.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. An identified set of measures and activities
designed to protect, restore and/or manage stormwater quality by controlling
and/or reducing pollutants and to reduce and/or manage stormwater quantity by
controlling velocity, volume, and rate.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY. An organizational structure that is
responsible for funding, administering, and operating the city's stormwater
management program, and that is supported through a rate structure based on the
impervious surface area and gross area found on land parcels located within the
service area.
   STORMWATER SERVICES UTILITY MANAGER. A person working for or on behalf of
the city to administer the stormwater management program.
   UNDEVELOPED LAND. All land that is not altered from its natural state.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 54.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF A STORMWATER MANAGEMENT UTILITY AND STORMWATER
MANAGEMENT ENTERPRISE FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a city stormwater management utility that
shall be responsible for implementing, operating, and administering the city's
stormwater management program as defined herein.
   (B)   There is hereby established a City Stormwater Management Enterprise
Fund for the purpose of dedicating and protecting funding applicable to the
responsibilities of the stormwater management utility including, but not
limited to, rents, rates, fees, charges, and penalties as may be established
after due notice having been given and a public hearing held by the Board as
required by G.S. § 160A-314(a1)(1). The hearing may be held concurrently with
the public hearing on the proposed budget ordinance. Funding may also include
other funds transferred or allocated to the stormwater management utility by
the Board. All revenues and receipts of the stormwater management utility shall
be placed in the Stormwater Management Enterprise Fund and all expenses of the
stormwater management utility shall be paid from the Stormwater Management
Enterprise Fund, except that other revenues, receipts, and resources not
accounted for in the Stormwater Management Enterprise Fund may be applied to
stormwater management activities as deemed appropriate by the Board.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 54.05 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of the stormwater management utility shall extend
throughout the service area.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 54.15 RATE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Every parcel within the service area shall be subject to a stormwater
management utility service charge derived from the rate structure described
below. The rate structure to distribute the cost of services associated with
the operation, repair, improvement and maintenance of public drainage systems
and facilities through a schedule of rates, fees, charges, and penalties
related to the operation of a stormwater management utility and Stormwater
Management Enterprise Fund as established in § 54.04 shall be based on the
following parameters:
      (1)   Fixed charge per parcel based on account existence which directly
relates to certain administrative, billing, collections, public outreach, and
other charges as may be allocated on a per parcel basis.
      (2)   Gross parcel area on a given land parcel, which is related to total
pollutant loading of stormwater runoff discharged from that land parcel. The
gross area blocks are as follows:
         (a)   A parcel of 0 to <2 acres in gross area is one block.
         (b)   A parcel of 2 to <10 acres in gross area is two blocks.
         (c)   A parcel of 10 to <100 acres in gross area is three blocks.
         (d)   A parcel of 100 or greater acres in gross area is four blocks.
      (3)   Impervious surface area on a given land parcel, which directly
relates to the volume, rate and pollutant loading of stormwater runoff
discharged from that land parcel to the city's structural and natural drainage
systems and facilities. An impervious area units charge for stormwater costs
shall be allocated to impervious area on an ERU basis.
         (a)   Impervious surface area rates will apply to each unit or part
thereof of impervious area.
         (b)   Based on an analysis by the city upon the enactment of this
chapter of impervious surface area on properties throughout the city, an
impervious surface area of 2,600 square feet is hereby designated as one ERU.
   (B)   Each single family residential parcel shall be charged for one ERU of
impervious area.
   (C)   Each residential unit in a townhome, condominium, or other multi-
family structure with individual unit ownership and duplexes shall be billed
for one ERU of impervious area.
   (D)   There will be no impervious area units charge for land parcels with
fewer than 500 square feet of impervious surface area.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 54.16 SCHEDULE OF FEES AND CHARGES.
   The schedule of rates, fees, charges, and penalties related to this chapter
shall be adopted after notice and a public hearing as required by G.S. § 160A-
314. As set out in G.S. § 160A-314, the hearing may be held concurrently with
the public hearing on the city's proposed budget. The schedule of rates, fees,
charges, and penalties shall apply to all land parcels within the service area,
except as may be altered by credits or exemptions provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 54.17 BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Method of billing. Billing and collection of the stormwater management
utility service charges for stormwater management services and facilities shall
be billed with property taxes under the general administration of the City
Manager and shall be payable in the same manner as property taxes.
   (B)   Delinquencies. Stormwater management utility service charge billings
that are not paid within the time allowed for the payment of property taxes
shall be collected by any remedy provided by law for collecting and enforcing
private debts or in any other manner authorized by law.
   (C)   Application of payment. Payment will be applied to a customer's bill
in the following order:
      (1)   Interest, to the extent allowed by law.
      (2)   Civil penalties assessed pursuant to this chapter.
      (3)   Stormwater management utility service charge.
   (D)   Appeal of disputed bills and adjustments. If any citizen wishes to
dispute a stormwater utility service charge billing or any other rents, rates,
fees, charges, or penalties adopted pursuant to this chapter, that citizen must
submit a written appeal within 60 days from the date of billing, stating the
reasons for the appeal, and providing information pertinent to the calculation
of the billed charge. A timely appeal shall stay the penalty deadlines. An
appeal of a disputed bill shall be filed with the Stormwater Utility Manager
for review and disposition. If the citizen is not satisfied with the
disposition of the appeal, the citizen may further appeal the disputed charge
to the City Manager or his or her designee who shall make the final ruling on
the validity of the appeal.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 54.18 DISPOSITION OF SERVICE CHARGES AND FEES.
   Stormwater management utility service charge and fee revenues shall be
assigned and dedicated solely to the Stormwater Management Enterprise Fund in
the city budget and accounting system, which shall be and remain separate from
other funds, and shall be used only to fund identified stormwater management
program activities. The services charges and fees paid to and collected by
virtue of the provision of this chapter shall not be used for general or other
governmental or proprietary purposes of the city, except to pay for costs
incurred by the city in rendering services associated with the stormwater
management utility.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
§ 54.19 EXEMPTIONS AND CREDITS APPLICABLE TO STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SERVICE
CHARGES.
   (A)   Statement of policy. Except as provided in this section, no public or
private property shall be exempt from stormwater management service charges or
receive a credit or offset against such stormwater management service charges.
No exemption or reduction in stormwater management service charges shall be
granted based on the age, tax or economic status, race, or religion of the
customer, or other condition unrelated to the cost of providing stormwater
services and facilities.
   (B)   Exemptions. No public or private property shall be exempt from
stormwater management utility service charges, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Publically dedicated roads, streets, greenways, sidewalks and other
publically dedicated rights of way and easements for vehicular or pedestrian
traffic that are available for use by the general public for transportation
purposes, shall be exempt from city stormwater management utility service
charges. This exemption shall not apply to internal site roadways within public
facilities.
      (2)   Railroad rights-of-way used or formerly used for trackage shall be
exempt from city stormwater management utility service charges. This exemption
shall not be construed to apply to railroad stations, maintenance buildings, or
other developed land used for railroad purposes.
   (C)   Credits. The following credits may be allowed upon adoption of a
credit application instruction manual by the Board:
      (1)   Non single family residential parcels that provide measures to
mitigate the impacts of runoff on the stormwater system may be eligible for one
or more credits to the impervious area units charge portion of the stormwater
management utility service charge, proportional to the extent those measures
address the impacts of peak discharge and total runoff volume from the site.
      (2)   The credit application instruction manual may be approved by the
Board and placed on file with the City Clerk at which time it shall be followed
in establishing applicable credits to a customer's impervious area units charge
portion of the stormwater management utility service charge.
      (3)   Each credit allowed against a customer's impervious area units
charge portion of the stormwater management utility service charge shall be
conditioned on continuing compliance with the performance standards set forth
in the credit application instruction manual and/or the applicable standards
set out in the city's Land Development Ordinance existing at the time of
construction of the facilities and may be rescinded for noncompliance with
those standards.
      (4)   Each credit for which a customer applies shall be subject to review
and approval by the Stormwater Utility Manager. The Stormwater Utility Manager
may approve or reject any application for a credit in whole or in part.
(Ord. 2012-O-03, passed 6-26-12)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
71.   RULES OF OPERATION
   
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
   
73.   BICYCLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
In General
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Motor vehicle registration
   
70.03   Trucks on residential streets
Enforcement
   
70.15   Authority of Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.16   Obedience to Police and Fire Department officials
   
70.17   Authorized emergency vehicles
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.30   Obedience to signs, markers, or devices
   
70.31   Signs as prerequisite to enforcement
   
70.32   Traffic control signal legend
   
70.33   Flashing signals
   
70.34   Yield signs
   
70.35   Traffic lanes
   
70.36   Zone of quiet
   
70.37   School zones
   
70.38   Unauthorized display prohibited
   
70.39   Interference prohibited
 
   
70.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may
ride, having two tandem wheels either of which is over 20 inches in diameter.
   BLOCK. A portion of any street located between any two intersections of any
two streets or public alleyways next adjacent to each other.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
   CROSSWALK. The portion of any street or roadway ordinarily included within
the prolongation or connection of the lateral lines of sidewalks at
intersections. Any portion of a roadway or street distinctly indicated for
pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface of the street or
roadway.
   CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   DRIVER. The operator of a vehicle. The terms “driver” and “operator” and
their cognates are synonymous.
   FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight or passengers.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation of the lateral
curblines or, if none, then the lateral edge of roadway lines of two or more
highways which join one another at any angle whether or not one such highway
crosses the other. Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart,
then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event that such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   LANED ROADWAY. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
designed to run upon the highways which is pulled by a self-propelled vehicle.
This shall not include mopeds as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27)h.
   MOTORCYCLE. A type of passenger vehicle as defined in G.S. 20-4.01(27).
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean Standard Time or Daylight Savings Time as may be in current use in the
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal, marking or device, not
inconsistent with this title, placed or erected by authority of the Board by a
designated official having jurisdiction through authority given by the Board,
for the purpose of regulating, warning, prohibiting or guiding traffic upon the
public streets and thoroughfares of the city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC SIGNALS. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, whereby traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed, to turn, or to proceed with caution.
   PARK. The standing of any vehicle, whether occupied or unoccupied, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or cargo.
   PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
   PERSON. Every individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
governmental agency, or combination thereof of whatsoever form or character.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every peace officer of the city, including every employee of
the city authorized and empowered to regulate traffic and to make arrests for
any violations of the provisions of this title.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every road or driveway not open to the use of the
public as a matter of right for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
   PUBLIC CONVEYANCE. Any vehicle other than a taxicab or railroad train for
transporting persons for a fare.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The privilege of the immediate use of the street or roadway.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street or highway improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a
highway includes two or more separate roadways, the term ROADWAY as used herein
shall refer to any roadways separately but not to all roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE. Traffic island or other space officially set aside within a
highway for the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is so plainly marked or
indicated by proper signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set apart
as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STANDING. Any stopping of any vehicle, whether or not the vehicle is
occupied during the period of stopping.
   STOP. When required, means the complete cessation of movement of any
vehicle.
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any stopping of any vehicle, except
when the stopping means that it shall be necessary to stop the vehicle to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with direction of any police
officer of the city or by reason of any traffic control sign or signal or by
reason of any emergency.
   STREET and HIGHWAY. The entire width between property or right-of-way lines
of every way or place of whatever nature, when any part thereof is open to the
use of the public as a matter of right for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
The terms HIGHWAY and STREET and their cognates are synonymous.
   THROUGH HIGHWAY. Every street or highway or portion thereof at the entrances
to which vehicular traffic from intersecting streets or highways is required by
law to stop before entering or crossing the same and when stop signs are
erected as provided in this title.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles of all kinds,
conveyances, tractors, bicycles, motorcycles and the like, either singly or
together, while using any street or alleyway for travel, including the
operation of, the loading or unloading of or the parking of any vehicle upon
any of the public streets of the city.
   TRAFFIC SCHEDULE. The official list or schedule of the regulations compiled
in accordance with G.S. 160A-77, maintained in the office of the City Clerk:
      (1)   Designating the location of traffic control devices;
      (2)   Designating areas or zones where regulations are applied to
parking, loading, bus stops, or taxicab stands;
      (3)   Establishing speed limits;
      (4)   Restricting or regulating traffic at certain times on certain
streets, or to certain types, weights or sizes of vehicles;
      (5)   Designating the location of through streets, stop intersections,
yield-right-of-way intersections, waiting lanes, one-way streets, or truck
traffic routes; and
      (6)   Establishing regulations upon vehicle turns at designated
locations.
   TRUCK. A vehicle that has any of the following characteristics:
      (1)   Gross vehicle weight (GVW) rating of 10,000 pounds or more.
      (2)   Tandem axle or tri-axle vehicle.
      (3)   Tractor and tandem vehicles when pulling semitrailers or tandem
semitrailers.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon fixed rails or tracks; provided, that for the purposes
of this chapter bicycles shall be deemed vehicles and every rider of a bicycle
upon a highway shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter applicable to
the driver of a vehicle except those which by their nature can have no
application. This term shall not include a device which is designed for and
intended to be used as a means of transportation for a person with a mobility
impairment, or who uses the device for mobility enhancement, is suitable for
use both inside and outside a building, including on sidewalks, and is limited
by design to 15 miles per hour when the device is being operated by a person
with a mobility impairment, or who uses the device for mobility  enhancement.
This term shall not include an electric personal assistive mobility device as
defined in G.S. 20-4.01(7b).
(`84 Code, § 7-1001) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09)
Statutory reference:
   Motor vehicles, see G.S. Chapter 20
   Municipal authority to regulate traffic generally, see G.S. § 160A-300
   Similar and additional definitions, see G.S. § 20-4.01
§ 70.02 MOTOR VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle resident in the city shall be registered and
licensed, and the Clerk shall make and keep a permanent record thereof.
(`84 Code, § 7-2001)
   (B)   The owner of every motor vehicle registered under this section shall
pay to the city through the county annually, as of February 15, or within 30
days after moving within the city or within 30 days of purchase of a vehicle
subsequent to February 15 in any year, for the registration and licensing of
the motor vehicle a tax of $10.
   (C)   If a license tag is issued it shall be displayed on the front or rear
bumper of the motor vehicle so licensed and registered in such a manner as to
be clearly visible; if a decal is issued, it shall be displayed in the lower
right-hand corner of the windshield so that the edges of the decal will not be
more than one inch from the bottom and right edges of the windshield.
   (D)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-2002) (Ord. passed 6-30-25; Am. Ord. passed 2-7-75; Am. Ord.
2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
§ 70.03 TRUCKS ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a truck upon
city streets as designated in the city's traffic schedule.
   (B)   Signs shall be erect on all streets as designated in the city's
traffic schedule.
   (C)   The above prohibition is subject to the following exceptions:
      (1)   Trucks are hereby allowed to travel upon any street which abuts
their point of destination.
      (2)   Trucks are hereby allowed to travel upon any street which is the
exclusive means/route to their point of destination.
      (3)   Trucks are hereby allowed to travel upon any street which is part
of a city authorized detour.
      (4)   Authorized emergency vehicles are hereby allowed to travel upon any
street necessary in the exercise of their duties.
      (5)   Trucks which are owned, operated by or under contract to a public
utility, electric, cablevision or telephone corporation or the city are hereby
allowed to travel upon any street necessary in the installation, restoration or
emergency maintenance of utility services.
      (6)   Wrecker vehicles which are towing a disabled vehicle or combination
of vehicles in an emergency are hereby allowed to travel upon any street which
is en route to the nearest feasible point for parking or storage of the
disabled vehicles(s).
      (7)   Vehicles used primarily for the transportation of passengers,
provided that said vehicle is traveling upon an established bus route, or has
on board passengers for hire.
   (D)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with § 10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1161) (Ord. passed 4-24-62; Am. Ord. passed 10-23-73; Am. Ord.
2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 70.15 AUTHORITY OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department to
enforce all street traffic laws and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to
street traffic.
   (B)   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (C)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
(`84 Code, § 7-1011) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09)
§ 70.16 OBEDIENCE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENT OFFICIALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully fail or refuse to comply
with any lawful order or direction of a police officer or Fire Department
official. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1012) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.17 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this title regulating the operation, parking and standing
of vehicles shall apply to authorized emergency vehicles, as defined in §
70.01, except as provided under state law.
(`84 Code, § 7-1013) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09)
Statutory reference:
   Emergency vehicles, exceptions to right-of-way rules, see G.S. § 20-156
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.30 OBEDIENCE TO SIGNS, MARKERS, OR DEVICES.
   Any person failing or refusing to comply with the directions indicated on
any sign, marker or device for the control or direction of traffic erected or
placed in accordance with the provisions of this title when so placed or
erected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. This section shall not be construed
to apply when the driver of a vehicle is otherwise directed by a police officer
or when an exception is granted to the driver of an authorized emergency
vehicle under §
70.17. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1021) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31 SIGNS AS PREREQUISITE TO ENFORCEMENT.
   No provisions of this title for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to an
ordinarily observant person.
(`84 Code, § 7-1022) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09)
§ 70.32 TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic control signals exhibiting the
words, "Go," "Caution," or "Stop," or exhibiting different colored lights
successively one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be
used and the terms and light shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles
and to pedestrians as follows:
   (A)   Green alone or "Go."
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed through or turn
right or left unless a sign at the place prohibits either turn. But vehicular
traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right-of-way
to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an
adjacent crosswalk at the time the signal is exhibited.
      (2)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within
any marked or unmarked crosswalk.
   (B)   Yellow alone or "Caution" when shown/allowing the green or "Go"
signal.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red
or "Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or "Stop"
signal is exhibited.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown.
   (C)   Red alone or "Stop."
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection shall remain standing until green or "Go" is shown
alone; however, if a sign is not erected prohibiting turns on red lights, the
vehicles may turn right on red lights after coming to a complete stop. Streets
on which right turns on red are not allowed are set out in the traffic
schedule.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless the
green or "Go" is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian "Walk"
signal.
   (D)   Red with green arrow.
      (1)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by the arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
      (2)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway until the
green or "Go" is shown.
   (E)   In the event an official traffic control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable, except as to those provisions which by their
nature can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or
marking on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the
absence of any sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (F)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1023) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.33 FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used, they shall require
obedience by vehicular traffic as follows:
      (1)   When a red lens is illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers of vehicles shall come to a complete stop before entering the nearest
crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, and the right to
proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop
sign. In no event shall the vehicle be driven into the crosswalk unless and
until the entry can be made with safety to other persons and property at the
place.
      (2)   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent flashes,
drivers or operators of vehicles may proceed through the intersection past the
signal only with caution.
   (B)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1024) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.34 YIELD SIGNS.
   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign erected at the
intersections described in the traffic schedule shall and in obedience to the
sign slow down and yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian crossing the
roadway on which he or she is driving and to any vehicle in movement on the
main-traveled or through highway or street which is approaching so as to arrive
at the intersection at approximately the same time as the vehicle entering the
main-traveled or through street or highway. Violation of this section may
constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1030) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35 TRAFFIC LANES.
   When traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep the vehicle within the boundaries of
any lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or preparing to making a
lawful turning movement. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction
in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1027) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36 ZONE OF QUIET.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed indicating a zone of quiet, the person
operating a motor vehicle within the zone shall not sound the horn or any other
warning device, except in an emergency. Violation of this section may
constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1028) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37 SCHOOL ZONES.
   Whenever authorized signs are placed designating any street or part thereof,
as a school zone,
drivers of motor vehicles using the street shall exercise, the greatest care
for the protection of children. Violation of this section may constitute an
infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1029) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22)
§ 70.38 UNAUTHORIZED DISPLAY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control
device, sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or
which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic control device, sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any street or highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon
any commercial advertising.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1025) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device, sign
or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereon, or any other part
thereof. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1026) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   If any person shall violate an ordinance regulating the operation or parking
of vehicles, he or she shall be responsible for an infraction and shall be
required to pay in accordance with the current City of Creedmoor Fee and Rate
Schedule.
(G.S. § 14-4(b)) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-11,
passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
CHAPTER 71: RULES OF OPERATION
Section
Speed Regulations
   
71.01   Speed regulations
Turning Movements
   
71.15   Turning markers
   
71.16   Authority to place restricted turn signs
   
71.17   Obedience to no-turn signs
One-Way Streets and Alleys
   
71.30   One-way streets and alleys
Special Stops
   
71.40   Special stops
Prohibitions
   
71.50   Prohibitions
SPEED REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise designated in the traffic schedule, no person
shall operate a vehicle in excess of 25 miles per hour inside the municipal
corporate limits.
   (B)   Exceptions. It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle in excess of the
speeds listed below upon the streets or portions of streets of the state
highway system or upon the streets or portions of streets, not a part of the
state highway system as designated in the traffic schedule.
      (1)   Fifteen miles per hour.
      (2)   Twenty miles per hour.
      (3)   Thirty-five miles per hour.
      (4)   Forty-five miles per hour.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1041) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to set speed limit within the municipal corporate limits, see G.S.
§ 20-141-e; G.S. § 20-141-f
TURNING MOVEMENTS
§ 71.15 TURNING MARKERS.
   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed within an
intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning thereat,
no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of the indications.
Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1051) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 AUTHORITY TO PLACE RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   The Board shall determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles
shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall place proper signs at these
intersections. The making of the turns may be prohibited between certain hours
of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the hours shall be
plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when the turns are
permitted. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1052) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 OBEDIENCE TO NO-TURN SIGNS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left or U-
turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of any
sign. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with
§
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1053) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS
§ 71.30 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any ordinance designates any one-way street or alley
there shall be signs giving notice thereof, and no regulations shall be
effective unless the signs are in place.
      (2)   Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(`84 Code, § 7-1061)
   (B)   Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys described
by the city, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when
signs indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with § 10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1062) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL STOPS
§ 71.40 SPECIAL STOPS.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance designates and describes a through street,
there shall be a stop sign on each and every street intersecting the through
street or intersecting the portion thereof described and designated as such by
any ordinance, unless traffic at any intersection is controlled at all times by
traffic control signals. However, at the intersection of two through streets or
at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so
designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of the
streets.
(`84 Code, § 7-1072)
   (B)   The Board may determine and designate intersections where particular
hazards exist upon other than through streets and may determine whether
vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to any stop intersection, and
shall erect a stop sign at every place where a stop is required. These places
are specified in the traffic schedule.
(`84 Code, § 7-1073)
   (C)   Every sign erected pursuant to this title shall bear the word "Stop"
in letters not less than eight inches in height.
      (1)   The signs shall at nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or
flashing internal illumination, by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of
the sign or by efficient reflecting elements on the face of the sign.
      (2)   Every stop sign shall be located as near as practicable at the
nearest line of the crosswalk on the side of the intersection or, if none, at
the nearest line of the roadway.
(`84 Code, § 7-1074)
   (D)   (1)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
described in the traffic schedule and indicated by a stop sign shall stop
before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or, in the
event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, or, if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
      (2)   The driver having stopped in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection shall proceed cautiously, yielding the right-of-way to all
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are approaching the intersection.
   (E)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1075) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
PROHIBITIONS
§ 71.50 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon any street, highway, road,
alley, drive or other public way, or upon the grounds and premises of any
service station, drive-in theatre, store, restaurant or other business
establishment providing parking or loading and unloading automobile space for
customers, patrons or the public:
      (1)   To operate a motor vehicle from a standing or parked position by
rapid acceleration or other mechanical means of operation so as to cause the
wheels of the vehicle to spin in place prior to or during the initial forward
movement of the vehicle; or
      (2)   To operate a vehicle so as to cause the vehicle in its initial
movement from a standing or parked position to travel:
         (a)   At a rate of speed greater than is reasonable and necessary for
the normal operation of a motor vehicle according to accepted standard
practices for vehicle operation; or
         (b)   At a rate of speed or in such manner as will endanger or likely
endanger persons or property; or in a heedless manner disregarding the rights
of others; or without due caution.
(`84 Code, § 7-1081)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to operate a motor vehicle, as
defined in the general statutes, upon any sidewalk in the city, except across a
lawfully constructed driveway.
   (C)   No motor vehicle operated within the city limits shall utilize an
engine retarding system to aid in the breaking process of the vehicle, which
causes loud noise uncharacteristic of the normal operating sound of said motor
vehicle.
   (D)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1082) (Ord. passed 9-27-67; Am. Ord. 2005-O-02, passed 5-24-05;
Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Method of Parking
   
72.01   General parking regulations
   
72.02   Unattended vehicles
Restrictions on Stopping, Standing, and Parking
   
72.15   General rules
   
72.16   Obstruction prohibited
   
72.17   Limits for certain purposes
   
72.18   Hazardous or congested places
   
72.19   Advertising
   
72.20   Stopping, standing, or parking restricted
   
72.21   Stopping for loading or unloading only
   
72.22   Tractor trailer parking restricted
   
72.23   Parking time limited in particular city block
Violations
   
72.30   Enforcement procedure
   
72.31   Duty of operator
METHOD OF PARKING
§ 72.01 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of lawful traffic
movement and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the
curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this title.
Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1121) (Ord. passed 5-29-28; Am. Ord. passed 5-26-42; Am. Ord.
2009-O-06, passed 7- 13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave the engine or motor of any
motor vehicle running while it is standing parked upon the streets. Violation
of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with § 10.99 of this
Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1122) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
RESTRICTIONS ON STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
§ 72.15 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 25 feet of an intersection;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless signs
or markings indicate a different length;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 25 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet
of the entrance (when properly signposted);
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or construction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      (14)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping;
      (15)   At any place with a curb painted yellow.
   (B)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his or her control
into any prohibited area or away from a curb any distance that is unlawful.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1131) (Ord. passed 5-26-42; Am. Ord. passed 4-30-68; Am. Ord.
2009-O-06, passed 7- 13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-17, passed 8-3-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-
01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.16 OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, in a manner or under any
conditions therefore so as to block any part of the travel portion of the
roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic. Violation of this section may
constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1132) (Ord. passed 5-26-42; Am. Ord. 86-O-13, passed 6-24-86;
Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 72.17 LIMITS FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon
any street of the city for the principal purposes of:
      (1)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing or repairing such vehicle, except repairs made
necessary by a bona fide emergency;
      (3)   Storing by garages, dealers or other persons when the storing is
not incident to the bona fide use and operation of the automobile or other
vehicle; and
      (4)   Storing of any detached trailer or van when the towing unit has
been disconnected or for the purpose of transferring merchandise or freight
from one vehicle to another.
   (B)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1133) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.18 HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places, no person
shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any designated place. Violation of this
section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1134) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.19 ADVERTISING.
   No person shall stand or park on any street any vehicle for the primary
purpose of advertising. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction
in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1135) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.20 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The provisions of this section prohibiting the standing or parking of
a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs, except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or official traffic control device.
(`84 Code, § 7-1151)
   (B)   The provisions of this section imposing a time limit on parking shall
not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(`84 Code, § 7-1152)
   (C)   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a
vehicle at any time upon any of the streets described in the parking schedule
or upon any portion of a street designated with a curb painted yellow.
(`84 Code, § 7-1153)
   (D)   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person
shall park a vehicle for longer than the times specified within the district or
upon any of the streets described in the parking schedule.
(`84 Code, 7-1154)
   (E)   Whenever by this or any other section any parking time limit is
imposed or parking is prohibited in designated streets, there shall be
appropriate signs giving notice thereof. No regulations shall be effective
unless the signs are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense.
   (F)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1155) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-17,
passed 8-3-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.21 STOPPING FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY.
   (A)   Whenever vehicle loading and unloading zones are designated and
described by the parking schedule and when signs are placed, erected or
installed, giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop,
stand or park any vehicle for any purpose or period of time except in
accordance with the Traffic Schedule.
(`84 Code, § 7-1141)
   (B)   The streets, or parts thereof, described in the Traffic Schedule,
hereby incorporated herein, are hereby designated as freight loading and
unloading zones, and no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle therein
during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. for any purpose other than the
expeditious loading or unloading of freight, equipment or other goods and then
only for a period not to exceed one hour.
(`84 Code, § 7-1142)
   (C)   Bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-
carrier motor vehicles, designated by appropriate signs, shall be as specified
by the Board of Commissioners. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when
any stop has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that
the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose
of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
the zone.
   (D)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1143) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.22 TRACTOR TRAILER PARKING RESTRICTED.
   No truck tractor, truck trailer or truck tractor trailer rig, or any truck
with three or more axels, shall park or store their rig on any residential
local street, right-of-way, athletic field, public property, playground, vacant
lot, public or private school, church premises, or residential property or
residential lot within the city except such vehicle that is engaged in a
temporary delivery of goods or pickups on a residential street. Violation of
this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2006-O-21, passed 8-22-06; Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord.
2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Cross reference: City of Creedmoor Design Manual & Standard Details: local
street: G.S. 20-04.01(2b); G.S. 20.4.01(3d).
§ 72.23 PARKING TIME LIMITED IN PARTICULAR CITY BLOCK.
   When signs are erected in each block giving notice thereof, no person shall
park a vehicle for longer than the total period of time specified, or within
the hours specified within the same city block upon any of the streets
designated in the traffic schedule, an official copy of which is maintained in
the office of the City Clerk. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle either at the same place or at two or more places or parking spaces
within the same city block for a combined total parked period in the same city
block, during the regulated hours, in excess of the permitted period prescribed
in this regulation. The phrase CITY BLOCK as used in this section shall mean
the portion of a street lying between the nearest crossing intersectional
streets and shall not include other streets running parallel, at right angles,
or otherwise, to the street upon which such vehicle may be parked. Violation of
this section may constitute an interaction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2010-O-11, passed 7-27-10; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
VIOLATIONS
§ 72.30 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   If any vehicle shall be found illegally parked or parked overtime or in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter except §
72.16, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or other police or peace
officers of the city to attach to the vehicle a notice to the owner or operator
thereof, if the owner or operator is absent, or to deliver to the owner or
operator, if he or she is present, a notice to the effect that the vehicle has
been illegally parked or parked overtime or in violation of a provision of this
chapter except §
72.16.
(`84 Code, § 7-1171) (Ord. 86-O-13, passed 6-24-86; Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed
7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.31 DUTY OF OPERATOR.
   The person actually operating or in control of the operation of the vehicle
at the time that the vehicle is parked shall be charged with the duty of
complying with the provisions of this chapter; provided, that proof of
ownership of any vehicle found parked in violation of this chapter shall be
prima facie evidence that the owner parked the vehicle. Violation of this
section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1173) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Effect of regulations
   
73.02   Traffic laws applicable
   
73.03   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
73.04   Riding restrictions; manner of use
   
73.05   Riding on roadways, greenways, sidewalks, and bicycle paths
   
73.06   Speed
   
73.07   Bicycles on sidewalks
   
73.08   Lamps required at night
§ 73.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle, skateboard, scooter, toy vehicle or any other similar device or non-
motorized vehicle is operated upon any street, roadway, sidewalk, and greenway,
subject to those exceptions stated herein.
   (C)   No bicycles, skateboards, scooters, toy vehicles or other similar
devices are to be ridden in areas of the downtown business district, defined
generally as all sidewalks along and connecting to Main Street between Church
Street on the south, and Lake Road on the north, Elm Street on the west, Grey
Street and Chief Street on the east or other areas that have been posted by
signs that expressly prohibit such activities.
   (D)   This prohibition shall not apply to sworn law enforcement officers
while on duty and to any private security force employed and approved by the
Board of Commissioners.
   (E)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1101) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-16,
passed 7-20-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles or by this chapter applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to
special regulations in this title and except as to those provisions of laws and
ordinances which by their nature can have no application. Violation of this
section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1102) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-16,
passed 7-20-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
§ 73.03 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any sign, except where the person dismounts from the bicycle to
make any turn, in which event the person shall then obey the regulations
applicable to pedestrians.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1103) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-16,
passed 7-20-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.04 RIDING RESTRICTIONS; MANNER OF USE.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with § 10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1104) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-16,
passed 7-20-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.05 RIDING ON ROADWAYS, GREENWAYS, SIDEWALKS, AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the path and shall not use the roadway.
   (D)   When using greenways, bike paths or bike trails, pedestrians shall
walk as far to the right as practicable, shall walk no more than two abreast,
and shall exercise due care. Bicyclists shall give audible signal before
passing a pedestrian on a greenway, bike path or trail.
   (E)   When using sidewalks, bicyclists shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians and shall pass only on the left and only after giving audible
warning to pedestrians.
   (F)   Persons riding bicycles upon a sidewalk shall ride single file except
when passing another bicycle.
   (G)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1105) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-16,
passed 7-20-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.06 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. Violation of this section may
constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1106) (Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09; Am. Ord. 2015-O-16,
passed 7-20-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 73.07 BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Bicyclists may ride on roadways, greenways, bike paths, bike trails
and sidewalks throughout the city, except within the downtown business
district, defined generally as all sidewalks along and connecting to Main
Street between Church Street on the south, and Lake Road on the north, Elm
Street on the west, Grey Street and Chief Street on the east or other areas
that have been posted by signs that expressly prohibit such activities.
Bicyclists who recklessly endanger themselves, pedestrians, motorists, other
bicyclists, public infrastructure or private property are considered in
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Sworn law enforcement officers are specifically authorized to
immediately seize any bicycle, skateboard, scooter, toy vehicle or any other
similar device or non-motorized vehicle if the rider is endangering themselves
or others.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1107) (Ord. passed 4-23-74; Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09;
Am. Ord. 2015-O-16, passed 7-20-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 73.08 LAMPS REQUIRED AT NIGHT.
   No person shall ride a bicycle on any street or highway between sunset on
any day and sunrise on the following day, unless the same is equipped with an
operating and lighted lantern or lamp. Violation of this section may constitute
an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 7-1108) (Ord. passed 4-23-74; Am. Ord. 2009-O-06, passed 7-13-09;
Am. Ord. 2015-O-16, passed 7-20-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
   
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; LIMITS
   
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
94.   PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
   
95.   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES; HAZARDOUS WASTE
   
96.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
   
97.   ANIMALS
   
98.   FAMILY CARE HOMES
   
99.   FALSE ALARM REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED, JUNKED AND NUISANCE VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Administration
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Abandoned vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.04   Nuisance vehicle unlawful; removal authorized
   
90.05   Junked motor vehicle regulated; removal authorized
   
90.06   Removal of abandoned, nuisance or junked motor vehicles; pre-towing
notice requirements
   
90.07   Exceptions to prior notice requirement
   
90.08   Removal of vehicles; post-towing notice requirements
   
90.09   Right to probable cause hearing before sale or final disposition of
vehicle
   
90.10   Redemption of vehicle during proceedings
   
90.11   Sale and disposition of unclaimed vehicle
   
90.12   Conditions on removal of vehicles from private property
   
90.13   Protection against criminal or civil liability
   
90.14   Exceptions
   
90.15   Unlawful removal of impounded vehicle
   
90.16   Alternative remedies
§ 90.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Police Department and the Code Administrator of the city shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Police
Department shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposition
of vehicles determined to be "abandoned" on the public streets and highways
within the city, and on property owned by the city. The Code Administrator
shall be responsible for administering the removal and disposal of "abandoned",
"nuisance" and "junked" motor vehicles located on private property. The city
may, on an annual basis, contract with private tow truck operators or towing
businesses to remove, store, and dispose of abandoned vehicles, nuisance
vehicles, and junked motor vehicles in compliance with this chapter and
applicable state laws. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the
legal authority or powers of officers of the Police Department and Fire
Department in enforcing other laws or in otherwise carrying out their duties.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
Statutory reference:
   Authority for removal of junked and abandoned motor vehicles, see G.S. §
160A-303
   Authority for regulation of abandonment of junked motor vehicles, see G.S. §
160A-303.2
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303, an
abandoned vehicle is one that:
      (1)   Is left upon a public street or highway in violation of a law or
ordinance prohibiting parking; or
      (2)   Is left upon a public street or highway for longer than seven days;
or
      (3)   Is left upon property owned or operated by the city for longer that
24 hours; or
      (4)   Is left upon private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for longer than two hours.
   AUTHORIZED OFFICIAL. The supervisory employee of the Police Department or
the City Code Administrator, respectively, designated to order the removal of
vehicles under the provisions of this chapter.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. As authorized and defined in G.S. § 160A-303.2, the
term junked motor vehicle means a vehicle that does not display a current
license plate lawfully upon that vehicle and that:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked; or
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or move in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move; or
      (3)   Is more than five years old and appears to be worth less than $500.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. All machines designed or intended to travel over
land or water by self-propulsion or while attached to any self-propelled
vehicle.
   NUISANCE VEHICLE. A vehicle on public or private property that is determined
and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and unlawful,
including a vehicle found to be:
      (1)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats or
other pests; or
      (2)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation which
exceeds eight inches in height; or
      (3)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of water;
or
      (4)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other flammable
or explosive materials as evidenced by odor; or
      (5)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods; or
      (6)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over; or
      (7)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind; or
      (8)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain sharp
edges of metal or glass;
      (9)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety hazard
and a public nuisance by the City Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.03 ABANDONED VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a vehicle to cause or allow such vehicle to be abandoned as the
term is defined herein.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the authorized officials of the city may determine
that a vehicle is an abandoned vehicle and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.04 NUISANCE VEHICLE UNLAWFUL; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
possession of a motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the
real property upon which the vehicle is located to leave or allow the vehicle
to remain on the property after it has been declared a nuisance vehicle.
   (B)   Upon investigation, the City Code Administrator may determine and
declare that a vehicle is a health or safety hazard and a nuisance vehicle as
defined above, and order the vehicle removed.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.05 JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATED; REMOVAL AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the registered owner or person entitled to
the possession of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the real property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to leave or
allow the vehicle to remain on the property after the vehicle has been ordered
removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have more than one junked motor vehicle, as
defined herein, on the premises of private property. A single, permitted junked
motor vehicle must strictly comply with the location and concealment
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, person entitled to the possession
of a junked motor vehicle, or for the owner, lessee, or occupant of the real
property upon which a junked motor vehicle is located to fail to comply with
the location requirements or the concealment requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Subject to the provisions of division (E), the City Code Administrator
may order the removal of a junked motor vehicle found in violation of this
chapter to a storage garage or area. No such vehicle shall be removed from
private property without the written request of the owner, lessee, or occupant
of the premises unless the Code Administrator finds in writing that the
aesthetic benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens imposed on the
private property owner. Such finding shall be based on a balancing of the
monetary loss of the apparent owner against the corresponding gain to the
public by promoting or enhancing community, neighborhood, or area appearance.
The following, among other relevant factors, may be considered:
      (1)   Protection of property values;
      (2)   Promotion of tourism and other economic development opportunities;
      (3)   Indirect protection of public health and safety;
      (4)   Preservation of the character and integrity of the community; and
      (5)   Promotion of the comfort, happiness and emotional stability of the
area residents.
   (E)   Permitted concealment or enclosure of junked motor vehicles:
      (1)   One junked motor vehicle, in its entirety, may be located in the
rear yard provided the junked motor vehicle is entirely concealed from public
view from a public street and/or abutting premises by an acceptable covering
for not more than 60 calendar days. Junked motor vehicles kept on the premises
more than 60 calendar days shall be kept inside a completely enclosed building.
The City Code Administrator has the authority to determine whether any junked
motor vehicle is adequately concealed as required by this provision. The
covering must remain in good repair and must not be allowed to deteriorate.
      (2)   Any one or more junked motor vehicles kept for a period exceeding
60 calendar days shall be kept within a completely enclosed building, as
defined in the city zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.06 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED, NUISANCE OR JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES; PRE-TOWING
NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as set forth in §
90.07 below, an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is to be
removed shall be towed only after notice to the registered owner or person
entitled to possession of the vehicle. In the case of a nuisance vehicle or a
junked motor vehicle, if the names and addresses of the registered owner or
person entitled to the possession of the vehicle, or the owner, lessee, or
occupant of the real property upon which the vehicle is located can be
ascertained in the exercise of reasonable diligence, the notice shall be given
by first class mail. The person who mails the notice(s) shall retain a written
record to show the name(s) and address(es) to whom and to which mailed, and the
date mailed. If such names and addresses cannot be ascertained or if the
vehicle to be removed is an abandoned motor vehicle, notice shall be given by
affixing on the windshield or some other conspicuous place on the vehicle a
notice indicating that the vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified
date (no sooner than seven days after the notice is affixed). The notice shall
state that the vehicle will be removed by the city on a specified date, no
sooner than seven days after the notice is mailed or affixed, unless the
vehicle is moved by the owner or legal possessor prior to that time.
   (B)   With respect to abandoned vehicles on private property, nuisance
vehicles and junked vehicles to which notice is required to be given, if the
registered owner or person entitled to possession does not remove the vehicle
but chooses to appeal the determination that the vehicle is abandoned, a
nuisance vehicle or in the case of a junked motor vehicle that the aesthetic
benefits of removing the vehicle outweigh the burdens, such appeal shall be
made to the Board of Adjustment in writing, heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board of Adjustment, and further proceedings to remove
the vehicle shall be stayed until the appeal is heard and decided.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.07 EXCEPTIONS TO PRIOR NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   The requirement that notice be given prior to the removal of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle may, as determined by the authorized
official, be omitted in those circumstances where there is a special need for
prompt action to eliminate traffic obstructions or to otherwise maintain and
protect the police and public welfare. Such findings shall, in all cases, be
entered by the authorized official in the appropriate daily records.
Circumstances justifying the removal of vehicles without prior notice include:
   (A)   Vehicles abandoned on the streets. For vehicles left on the public
streets and highways, the City Board of Commissioners hereby determines that
the immediate removal of such vehicles may be warranted when they are:
      (1)   Obstructing traffic;
      (2)   Parked in violation of an ordinance prohibiting or restricting
parking;
      (3)   Parked in a no-stopping or standing zone;
      (4)   Parked in loading zones;
      (5)   Parked in bus zones; or
      (6)   Parked in violation of temporary parking restrictions.
   (B)   Other abandoned or nuisance vehicles. With respect to abandoned or
nuisance vehicles left on city-owned property other than the streets or
highways, and on private property, such vehicles may be removed without giving
prior notice only in those circumstances where the authorized official finds a
special need for prompt action to protect and maintain the public health,
safety, and welfare. By way of illustration and not of limitation, such
circumstances include vehicles blocking or obstructing ingress or egress to
businesses and residences, vehicles parked in such location or manner as to
pose a traffic hazard, and vehicles causing damage to public or private
property.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.08 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES; POST-TOWING NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which has been
ordered removed may, as directed by the city, be removed to a storage garage or
area by a tow truck operator or towing business contracted to perform such
services for the city. Whenever such a vehicle is removed, the authorized city
official shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the
vehicle with such notice to include the following;
      (1)   The description of the removed vehicle;
      (2)   The location where the vehicle is stored;
      (3)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
      (4)   The procedure the owner must follow to redeem the vehicle; and
      (5)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the removal.
   (B)   The city shall attempt to give notice to the vehicle owner by
telephone; however, whether or not the owner is reached by telephone, written
notice, indicating the information set forth in divisions (A)(1) through (5)
above, shall also be mailed to the registered owner's last known address,
unless this notice is waived in writing by the vehicle owner or his agent.
   (C)   If the vehicle is registered in North Carolina, notice shall be given
within 24 hours. If the vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be
given to the registered owner within 72 hours from the removal of the vehicle.
   (D)   Whenever an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle is removed,
and such vehicle has no valid registration or registration plates, the
authorized city official shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the
vehicle identification number to determine the last known registered owner of
the vehicle and to notify him of the information set forth in divisions (A)(1)
through (5) above.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.09 RIGHT TO PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING BEFORE SALE OR FINAL DISPOSITION OF
VEHICLE.
   After the removal of an abandoned vehicle, nuisance vehicle, or junked motor
vehicle, the owner or any person entitled to possession is entitled to a
hearing for the purpose of determining if probable cause existed for removing
the vehicle. A request for hearing must be filed in writing with the County
Magistrate designated by the Chief District Court Judge to receive such hearing
requests. The Magistrate will set the hearing within 72 hours of receipt of the
request, and the hearing will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
G.S. § 20-219.11, as amended.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.10 REDEMPTION OF VEHICLE DURING PROCEEDINGS.
   At any stage in the proceedings, including before the probable cause
hearing, the owner may obtain possession of the removed vehicle by paying the
towing fees, including any storage charges, or by posting a bond for double the
amount of such fees and charges to the tow truck operator or towing business
having custody of the removed vehicle. Upon regaining possession of a vehicle,
the owner or person entitled to the possession of the vehicle shall not allow
or engage in further violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.11 SALE AND DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE.
   Any abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle which is not claimed by the
owner or other party entitled to possession will be disposed of by the tow
truck operator or towing business having custody of the vehicle. Disposition of
such a vehicle shall be carried out in coordination with the city and in
accordance with G.S. Chapter 44A, Article 1.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.12 CONDITIONS ON REMOVAL OF VEHICLES FROM PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   As a general policy, the city will not remove a vehicle from private
property if the owner, occupant or lessee of such property could have the
vehicle removed under applicable state law procedures. In no case will a
vehicle be removed by the city from private property without a written request
of the owner, occupant or lessee, except in those cases where the vehicle is a
nuisance vehicle or is a junked motor vehicle which has been ordered removed by
the City Code Administrator. The city may require any person requesting the
removal of an abandoned, nuisance, or junked motor vehicle from private
property to indemnify the city against any loss, expense or liability incurred
because of the removal, storage, or sale thereof.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.13 PROTECTION AGAINST CRIMINAL OR CIVIL LIABILITY.
   No person shall be held to answer in any civil or criminal action to any
owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned,
nuisance, or junked motor vehicle, for disposing of such vehicle as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.14 EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any vehicle:
   (A)   Which is located in a bona fide "automobile graveyard" or "junkyard"
as defined in G.S. § 136-143, in accordance with the "Junkyard Control Act",
G.S. 136-141 et seq.;
   (B)   Which is in an enclosed building;
   (C)   Which is on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a
lawful place and manner; or
   (D)   Which is in an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a
lawful place and manner by the city.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.15 UNLAWFUL REMOVAL OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or attempt to remove from any
storage facility designated by the city, any vehicle which has been impounded
pursuant to the provision of this chapter unless and until all towing and
impoundment fees which are due, or bond in lieu of such fees, have been paid.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.16 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed to
impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise, nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2010-O-16, passed 12-14-10)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION; LIMITS
Section
   
91.01   Adoption of Fire Code
   
91.02   Fire limits
§ 91.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Fire Code as adopted by the
NC State Building Code Council and the NC Legislature is hereby adopted by
reference. An official copy of the code shall be kept on file in the office of
the Code Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 91-O-06, passed 5-28-91)
§ 91.02 FIRE LIMITS.
   The following described territory shall be known as the fire district for
the city:
   (A)   Beginning at a point, the intersection of the center lines of Church
Street and Main Street in the city, and from said beginning point run thence
along the center line of Church Street in a westerly direction to its
intersection with the center line of Elm Street;
   (B)   Thence along the center line of Elm Street in a northerly direction to
its intersection with the center line of Fleming Street;
   (C)   Thence along the center line of Fleming Street in an easterly
direction to its intersection with the center line of Main Street;
   (D)   Thence along the center line of Main Street in a northerly direction
to its point of intersection with the center line of Park Avenue;
   (E)   Thence along the center line of Park Avenue in an easterly direction
to its point of intersection with the center line of Gray Street;
   (F)   Thence along the center line of Gray Street in a southerly direction
to its point of intersection with the center line of Mill Street;
   (G)   Thence due south, crossing Lyon Street, to a point in the center line
of Church Street;
   (H)   Thence along Church Street in a northwesterly direction to the point
and place of beginning.
(`84 Code, § 3-2031)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
In General
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Hours of operation
   
92.03   Vehicles
   
92.04   Posting copies of rules and regulations
   
92.05   Destruction of park property
   
92.06   Hunting and harvesting of wildlife prohibited
   
92.07   Pets
   
92.08   Alcoholic beverages
   
92.09   Camping and campfires
   
92.10   Gambling
   
92.11   Picnic shelter use and rentals
   
92.12   Weapons prohibited
Lake Rogers Park and the Walking Trails of Lake Rogers Park
   
92.20   Statutory authorization
   
92.21   Boating regulations
   
92.22   Adoption of North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission regulations
   
92.23   Manner in which fish may be taken
   
92.24   Pollution of the lake
   
92.25   Bank fishing
   
92.26   Boardwalk and gazebo
   
92.27   Fishing platforms
The Gauntlet
   
92.30   [Reserved]
Harris Park
   
92.40   Personal grills
The Cross City Trail
   
92.50   Boardwalk, overlook and Robertson Creek bridge
The Creedmoor Community Center
   
92.60   Facility usage
   
92.61   Rental facility requirements
   
92.62   BC Roberts Multi-Purpose Field
 
   
92.99   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, PARKS shall be defined as all parks,
playgrounds, recreational facilities, sidewalks, greenways, walkways, trails
and unimproved open space areas owned, leased, operated, maintained and/or
administrated by the city, including but not limited to: the Gauntlet,
Creedmoor Community Center, BC Roberts Multi-Purpose Field, Harris Park, the
Cross City Trail, Lake Rogers Park, and the Walking Trails at Lake Rogers Park.
(Ord. 2020-O-12, passed 6-8-20; Am. Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord.
2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
§ 92.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Normal hours of operation for all city parks and facilities shall be sunrise
to sunset, except for facilities lit for extended use. Facilities lit for
extended use still must be vacated by 11:00 p.m., unless granted special
permission by the city. This section does not apply to the Cross City Trail.
Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.03 VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall drive or ride any motor vehicle, motorcycle, motor-
driven cycle, all-terrain vehicle, golf cart, any off-highway or motor-driven
vehicle upon any park land, except upon the roads or on parking areas designed
for such purposes. There shall be no motorized or all-terrain vehicles of any
kind on walking trails, boardwalks, overlooks or bridges; this shall not
include or apply to motorized wheelchairs, personal mobility devices, or
handicap scooters. This section shall not include operation of motorized
vehicles engaged in property maintenance and other services authorized by the
city.
   (B)   Parking is first-come, first-served, and limited to designated areas
only. Overnight parking is strictly prohibited without prior written approval
from the city. Vehicles left overnight are subject to tow at owners' expense.
   (C)   Bicycles, skateboards, rollerblades, hover boards, and scooters are
prohibited in any area where there are posted signs prohibiting their use.
   (D)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.04 POSTING COPIES OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Park rules and regulations shall be posted and made available to the public
at city parks and recreational facilities. Copies may also be obtained at City
Hall during business hours, and online at the city website.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20)
§ 92.05 DESTRUCTION OF PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, damage, destroy, mutilate or
deface any structure or property within any park or city facility, including
but not limited to: pier, dock, overlook, boardwalk, sidewalk, bridge, fishing
platform, building, picnic shelter, grill, table, gazebo, monument, statue,
planter, fountain, wall, fencing, sign, railing, vehicle, bench, tree, plant,
and at like. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in
accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.06 HUNTING AND HARVESTING OF WILDLIFE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In order to ensure safety of the public and city employees, no person
may take, possess, buy, sell, transport, or attempt to take or possess any
wildlife, whether dead or alive, in whole or in part, upon any property within
the city limits or on or above any property owned by the city, specifically
including Lake Rogers and the parcels of real property situated upon the
headwaters of that lake.
   (B)   This includes no hunting, harvesting or removal of wildlife,
vegetation or natural materials of any kind from any park, with the exception
of fish from Lake Rogers as permitted by North Carolina Wildlife Commission
Regulations. Any sworn law enforcement officer or authorized representative of
the city may engage in conducting necessary management of nuisance wildlife
species on a specific, case-by-case basis.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.07 PETS.
   Pets are permitted only in park areas that do not expressly prohibit them.
Pets must be leashed at all times, and owners must collect and dispose of pet
waste properly. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in
accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.08 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Consumption or possession of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in city parks
and recreational facilities. An exception to this regulation shall exist for
approved rental events hosted in the Creedmoor Community Center's Event Room or
meeting rooms, and which have met all requirements as specified by the
Creedmoor Community Center facility rules and regulations, and executed rental
agreement form. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in
accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.09 CAMPING AND CAMPFIRES.
   Overnight camping, campfires or burning of any kind, including fireworks and
pyrotechnics, are prohibited at all city parks and facilities without prior
written approval from the city. Violation of this section may constitute an
infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.10 GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a game of chance in any city-
owned park or facility at which money, property or any other thing of value is
wagered. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.11 PICNIC SHELTER USE AND RENTALS.
   Picnic shelters may be reserved by paying rental fees at City Hall. Unless
they have been reserved, shelters are available on a first-come, first-served
basis. Renters and public users shall not deface any shelter by attaching
decorations, such as streamers, balloons and the like, by means of inserting
any object such as staples, nails and the like into the structure. Any group
abusing the privilege of the use of these areas may be denied further use of
the park facilities. Glass containers are prohibited within city parks and
recreational facilities. Renters, guests and facility users are allowed to
bring small equipment, such as cornhole boards or horseshoes, for use in a
city-owned park or facility. Large equipment, such as volleyball nets and
bounce houses, is strictly prohibited. Violation of this section may constitute
an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.12 WEAPONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to openly carry on or about his
person any deadly weapon, including but not limited to any: machete, spear,
Bowie knife, dirk, dagger, sling-shot, loaded cane, metal knuckles, razor, stun
gun, pistol, revolver, gun, rifle, bow, crossbow or nightstick, at any city-
owned park or facility.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess or carry a legally
permitted, concealed handgun during a scheduled event, social occasion,
gathering, assembly, performance, game, exhibition or competition on, in or at
any city-owned local government buildings, gymnasium, athletic fields, and
their appurtenant premises, in accordance with G.S. § 14-415.11(c). This
section does not apply to greenways, walking trails, or sidewalks as defined in
G.S. § 14-415.23. This section does not apply to sworn law enforcement
officers.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
LAKE ROGERS PARK AND THE WALKING TRAILS AT LAKE ROGERS PARK
§ 92.20 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The provisions contained in G.S. Chapter 130A, Article 10, and all other
laws, rules or regulations governing the use of public drinking water supplies,
are hereby adopted as the general rules for the use of Lake Rogers.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   For similar state law, see 15A NCAC 18C.1305
§ 92.21 BOATING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a boat in Lake Rogers without a launch pass
issued by the city, which shall be valid for use only by the person to whom it
was issued on the dates indicated on the pass. Each launch pass shall be issued
subject to revocation or cancellation upon violation of any provision of this
chapter by the holder. Launch passes shall not be issued under this chapter to
any person who has knowingly violated the rules and regulations governing Lake
Rogers, or to any person having intoxicating drink in his or her possession, or
who shows evidence of being under the influence of alcohol. Rental boats must
stay within sight of the concession stand and must be returned by the specified
rental end time.
   (B)   Private docks are not permitted in, on or adjacent to Lake Rogers.
Boats shall not enter or leave Lake Rogers except from the docks provided by
the city.
   (C)   Every boat used on Lake Rogers shall be equipped with a personal
flotation device for each occupant, and no person shall receive a launch pass
to use a boat on the lake unless the boat is so equipped. Children under 13
years of age must wear a personal flotation device at all times while on the
boat.
   (D)   Boats operated on Lake Rogers may be propelled by means of oars,
paddles or other manual propulsion, or by outboard motor. The speed limit shall
not exceed five miles per hour in the boat dock, pier and boardwalk areas.
Boats shall not be operated in such a manner as to create or cause a wake. The
BOATDOCK, PIER AND BOARDWALK AREA shall be defined as that area within 500 feet
of any dock, pier, boardwalk, mooring buoy or the Lake Dam, including the
concrete dam and the earthen dam. The speed limit over the remainder of the
lake shall not exceed 15 miles per hour.
   (E)   No person under 12 years of age shall occupy a boat unless accompanied
by an adult. All rental boat occupancy and weight limits must be followed
according to vessel type.
   (F)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.22 ADOPTION OF THE NORTH CAROLINA WILDLIFE RESOURCES COMMISSION
REGULATIONS.
   The regulations of the North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission in
relation to the kinds and sizes of fish, and the times and seasons of taking
fish in noncommercial waters, are hereby adopted by reference as the fishing
regulations for Lake Rogers. All persons who wish to fish at Lake Rogers must
have a North Carolina fishing license in accordance with the North Carolina
Wildlife Resources Commission regulations, and as enforced by the North
Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission. Violation of this section may
constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.23 MANNER IN WHICH FISH MAY BE TAKEN.
   Fish may only be taken from Lake Rogers with a rod, a line and hooks, baited
with natural bait or tied with artificial flies, or with spoons, plugs or
artificial flies, or artificial minnows. Trolling lines, trawling nets, seine
nets, and trapping of fish are expressly prohibited. Violation of this section
may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.24 POLLUTION OF THE LAKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to commit any act that contributes to the
pollution of the lake, including illicit discharges as defined in Article 19 of
the Creedmoor Development Ordinance. Lake Rogers is classified as a WS-II
Nutrient Sensitive Water - Critical Area, and all regulations set forth by this
classification apply.
   (B)   Swimming, wading, and/or bathing, and spitting in Lake Rogers is
prohibited. Throwing trash, cigarettes or litter of any kind into the lake is
prohibited. Every boat shall be equipped with a sanitation pail, which should
be used for personal sanitary purposes only, and not for fish. See stormwater
permit and emergency watershed requirements and Creedmoor Development
Ordinance, Article 19.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.25 BANK FISHING.
   (A)   Bank fishing will be permitted only in areas designated by the city.
Fishing is expressly prohibited in the restricted area above, below or near the
dam, the spillway, or off or under the bridge on NC Highway 56, also known as
Lake Road. The restricted area is clearly defined as the fenced area posted as
"No Access."
   (B)   Violators fishing in the restricted area are subject to civil
infraction and immediate removal from park property.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.26 BOARDWALK AND GAZEBO.
   No action, inaction, activity, belonging or possession, including fishing,
sun bathing, fishing poles, coolers, chairs, loitering, stopping or standing,
shall block or barricade traffic, or prevent free and open access to the
intended amenity or route. Violation of this section may constitute an
infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.27 FISHING PLATFORMS.
   Fishing platforms shall be occupied on a first-come, first-served basis.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20)
THE GAUNTLET
§ 92.30 [RESERVED]
HARRIS PARK
§ 92.40 PERSONAL GRILLS.
   Users may bring personal grills to Harris Park. Grills must be placed at
least ten feet from any structure, including the shelter, playset, horseshoe
pit, parking lot and tree line. Violation of this section may constitute an
infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
THE CROSS CITY TRAIL
§ 92.50 BOARDWALK, OVERLOOK AND ROBERTSON CREEK BRIDGE.
   (A)   No fishing, trapping, snaring, catching or netting of any fish, bird,
reptile, mammal or other wildlife is permitted from anywhere on or under the
bridge, overlook or boardwalk.
   (B)   No action, inaction, activity, belonging or possession, including
fishing, sun bathing, fishing poles, coolers, chairs, loitering, stopping or
standing, shall block or barricade traffic, or prevent free and open access to
the intended amenity or preferred route.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with § 10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
THE CREEDMOOR COMMUNITY CENTER
§ 92.60 FACILITY USAGE.
   All users are required to follow the facility rules and regulations,
including registration requirements and proper equipment handling and
procedures. Failure to do so may result in privileges being suspended or
revoked. Children under the age of ten must be monitored at all times.
Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.61 RENTAL FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Security is required at any event with 100 or more attendees, and if
required by the city due to the nature of the event and/or other relevant
circumstances (e.g., beer or wine service). The city reserves the right to
require security if deemed necessary by city officials. Security must be
coordinated with the Police Department and the Parks and Recreation Department.
Posted maximum occupancy limits must be strictly followed.
   (B)   Public events, competitions, dances and all events requiring security
will also require a tenant users liability insurance protection policy (TULIP).
The city reserves the right to require a liability insurance policy due to the
size/nature of an event. The person identified on the rental agreement is
responsible for maintaining order and decorum when using the facility, and to
fully inform group members, affiliates, caterers, vendors and guests of the
facility rules and regulations. In addition, they shall be liable for any loss,
damage or injury sustained by any person(s) during the time the facility is
rented.
   (C)   Beer and wine service are available for the event room and meeting
rooms only; consumption in any other area of the facility or outside of the
facility is prohibited. A tenant user liability policy (TULIP) is required.
Other requirements may be imposed (i.e., security) depending on the type of
event. The renter must secure all permits/licenses required by law if beer or
wine will be served, sold or consumed. Failure to submit all required
documentation by the due date will result in cancellation of the rental and
forfeiture of all fees paid.
      (1)   Common-source containers without an individual server (i.e., kegs,
punch bowls, and the like), glass beer bottles, and brown bagging are strictly
prohibited.
      (2)   Renters and their guests must strictly adhere to all state and
federal laws regarding serving and consuming alcohol.
   (D)   A cleaning/damage deposit will be charged for all event room and
meeting room rentals. Failure to follow all cleaning procedures in the rental
agreement will result in all or a portion of the cleaning/damage deposit being
forfeited as described in the facility rules and regulations.
      (1)   All repair or replacement costs incurred by the city as a result of
damage, including staff labor costs, will be itemized and deducted from the
cleaning/damage deposit. If the cleaning/damage deposit is not enough to cover
the full cost of repair or replacement, the remaining costs will be billed to
the renter and must be paid within 30 calendar days to avoid legal action.
      (2)   Furthermore, failure to comply with any of the general facility
rules and regulations may result in forfeiture of all monies paid for the
rental, including the cleaning/damage deposit, and may also result in
forfeiture of the privilege to rent the facility in the future.
   (E)   The City Manager and/or the Board of Commissioners reserve the right
to cancel an approved request or revoke the right to use the facility to any
group or individual when:
      (1)   The group or individual has shown disregard for the facility rules
and regulations. If cancelled under this category, the renter forfeits all
monies paid;
      (2)   It is deemed necessary for the concern of the health, safety and
welfare of the renter, guests or the general public; or
      (3)   It is determined to be in the best interest of the Creedmoor
Community Center.
   (F)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.62 BC ROBERTS MULTI-PURPOSE FIELD.
   (A)   Field access may be prohibited or restricted if it is deemed too wet
or soft by the city's authorized representative. If destructive activity is
reported, the offending party will be charged for the cost of the facility
repair, and future use privileges may be forfeited.
   (B)   Portable tents, canopies and/or portable structures must be equipped
with appropriate tie downs (not staked). Large-size tents must comply with
County Fire Marshall requirements, based on size, type and location. The renter
is responsible for securing all necessary permits and inspections.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
93.01   Use and regulation
   
93.02   Obstructing
   
93.03   Excavation and repair
   
93.04   General conditions for use of rights-of-way
   
93.05   Permit required
   
93.06   Application requirements
   
93.07   Additional requirements for wireless support structures, wireless
communication facilities, and any other wireless communication facility, small
wireless facility or micro-wireless facilities
   
93.08   Acceptance and improvement of public streets
   
93.09   Refusal to disperse
   
93.10   Enforcement provisions
   
93.11   Definitions
§ 93.01 USE AND REGULATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit upon any
street or sidewalk, or upon any private property, except with written
permission of the owner or occupant of the private property, any trash, refuse,
garbage, building material, cans, bottles, broken glass, paper, or any type of
litter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person while a driver or a passenger in a
vehicle to throw or deposit litter upon any street or other public place within
the city, or upon private property.
   (C)   Every owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or other person in charge of any
commercial establishment or premises which maintains any paved or unpaved areas
for the use of the public, either for parking or as access areas and incident
to the carrying on of the principal business of any commercial establishment or
premises and which parking or access areas abut or lie within ten feet of any
public street or other public way, shall keep and maintain the areas clean and
free from trash, litter, rubbish and any materials liable to be blown,
deposited or cast upon the street or other public way.
   (D)   Suitable receptacles may be provided in parking or access areas within
the meaning of division (C) of this section. The receptacles shall be plainly
marked and shall be constructed to prevent scattering of any trash, litter,
rubbish or other materials deposited therein.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or ride any OFF-ROAD
VEHICLE, which for the purposes of this section shall include, but not be
limited to the following: quad, trike. four-wheeler, gator, scooter, dirt bike,
mower, tractor, or golf cart; upon the sidewalks, greenways, boardwalks,
pedestrian bridges or walking paths within the city.
      (1)   Municipal vehicles, utility maintenance vehicles, emergency
vehicles or other vehicles conducting official city business are exempt from
this restriction.
      (2)   This restriction shall not apply to electric personal assistive
mobility devices, less than 1,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, designed to
transport one person, with a propulsion system that limits the maximum speed of
the device to 15 miles per hour or less.
   (F)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, §§ 6-2021 - 6-2025) (Ord. passed 10-25-66; Am. Ord. passed 10-28-69;
Am. Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18; Am. Ord. 2020-O-07, passed 5-11-20; Am.
Ord. 2020-O-14, passed 8-11-20; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see
§
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate consumption on public property, see G.S. § 18B-300(c)
§ 93.02 OBSTRUCTING.
   (A)   Except as provided in Chapter 94 of this title, it shall be unlawful
for crowds or assemblages of persons to congregate on the streets or sidewalks
of the city in such a way as to unnecessarily interfere with pedestrian or
vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Before building or remodeling at any place in close proximity to a
sidewalk, a passageway shall be constructed so as to leave the sidewalk
unobstructed and provide safe and easy passage.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct
or erect, or cause to be constructed or erected, any structure, and
particularly any awning or similar structure, over any sidewalk or any part of
any sidewalk of the city, unless the structure is at least seven feet above the
surface of the sidewalk.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to repair a
motor vehicle on a paved street of the city, except in case of emergency.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to allow or permit any gate to open upon or
otherwise encroach upon any street or sidewalk.
   (F)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, §§ 6-2001 - 6-2005) (Am. Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18; Am. Ord.
2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 EXCAVATION AND REPAIR.
   (A)   No person shall make any excavation or opening or dig any ditch,
trench, tunnel or hole in, along, across or under any street, sidewalk or other
public place for the purpose of laying or placing therein any pipe, wires or
poles or for any other purposes unless a written permit has been issued under §
93.05. However, a permit shall not be required where the work is performed
under a contract with the city.
   (B)   All persons desiring a permit to make an opening in any street or
sidewalk, as set forth in division (A) of this section, shall obtain a permit
under §
93.05.
   (C)   When any part of any street, sidewalk, alley or other public place of
the city shall be torn or dug up for any purpose, the person making the
excavation or opening shall, have the duty of refilling the excavation or
opening, and the refilling shall be done in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the city.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation who obtains a
permit under the divisions of this section to do any excavation of any kind
which may create or cause a dangerous condition in or near any street, alley,
sidewalk or public place without placing and maintaining proper guard rails
three feet from the ground and signal lights or other warning at, in or around
the same, sufficient to warn the public of the excavation or work, and to
protect all persons using reasonable care, from injuries on account of the
excavation or work.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to drag, run
or cause to be dragged or run any harrow or other implement, engine, machine or
tool upon any asphalt or other type of permanently paved street of the city
which shall be likely in any way to injure or cut the surface of the street.
   (F)   No person shall injure, tamper with, remove, paint upon or deface any
bridge, culvert, ditch and drain, sign, signpost, street light, traffic signal,
bulletin board or other municipal property upon the streets and sidewalks or
elsewhere, except employees of the city in the performance of their duties.
   (G)   No person shall begin to construct, reconstruct, repair, alter or
grade any driveway on the public streets unless a written permit therefor has
been issued by some officer of the city vested with that authority.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to operate a motor vehicle, as
the same is defined by the general statutes, upon any sidewalk in the city
except across a lawfully constructed driveway.
   (I)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with § 10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, §§ 4-1011 - 4-1020) (Ord. passed 9-5-39; Am. Ord. passed 4-3-40; Am.
Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see
§
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Establishment and control over streets, see G.S. § 160A-296
§ 93.04 GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Rights-of-way in the city may be controlled by N.C. Department of
Transportation (DOT), private parties and/or the city. The city issues and/or
monitors work and/or encroachments in the city's rights-of-way. The city may
also issue permits for work on city property in DOT's rights-of-way.
Encroachment permits, or agreements are required to attach or use any city
property. Wireless telecommunication facility encroachments in the PROW require
review by the Planning Department. (See CDO § 10.1-32). ALL PROW encroachments
must be reviewed by the Public Works Department, including attachments to city
utility poles, replacement of city utility poles and “make ready” requests are
reviewed by the Public Utilities Department.
   (B)   The right to perform work in the PROW and the ability to maintain
facilities in the PROW are allowed subject to the conditions below, as
supplemented by those set forth in other sections of this chapter, standards
adopted by the department, and requirements contained in permits and/or other
authorizations.
      (1)   An encroachment permit does not convey any legal right, title, or
interest in the public way. Persons doing work in the public way and users may
need to obtain approvals from persons with property interests in the property.
      (2)   A permit or authorization does not limit the city's exercise of its
regulatory, police, government, legislative, or contracting authority. City
retains all rights to use all portions of public rights-of-way for its purposes
not prohibited by law. If a permit or authorization conflicts with the terms of
another permit or authorization or with the city code, the stricter of the
applicable provisions shall control. The stricter provision shall not control,
however, if a later-issued permit, authorization or ordinance explicitly and
specifically states that particular terms are to override prior, less strict
terms in an authorization.
      (3)   The city and its officials, officers, and employees are not liable
for any direct, indirect, or consequential damages that result when facilities
in the public way are damaged during the construction, installation,
inspection, maintenance, use or repair of public improvements that have
received city funding or that are installed pursuant to a contract with the
city.
      (4)   Users and persons who cause work to be done in the public way shall
pay for all damage that results, directly or indirectly, from work performed
for their benefit in the PROW, and for the installation, repair, maintenance,
and operation of their facilities in the PROW.
      (5)   An encroachment permit creates no third-party rights against the
city and is intended only for the benefit of the person receiving the permit or
authorization.
      (6)   Persons doing work in the PROW shall not interfere with existing
city utilities, such as infrastructure for electricity, water and sewer, the
natural and constructed stormwater system, and traffic signals and associated
lines, or the repair or replacement of such systems. Persons doing work in the
PROW shall apply for an encroachment permit at least ten working days to locate
and mark any existing City utility lines prior to initiating work. The
application shall accurately describe the portion of the street to be affected.
Damage to city utilities or other infrastructure shall be paid for by the
person or user contracting for the work that resulted in such damage. If an
encroachment permit is not required, persons doing work in the prow shall also
give the city public works department ten working days' notice to locate and
mark any existing city utility lines prior to initiating work. In addition,
persons will give the department a second notice 24-hours before doing any work
in the ROW as required by division (15) below.
      (7)   Persons and users performing work in the public way shall ensure
worker, traffic, and pedestrian safety and shall ensure that all work is
performed in accordance with industry standards. Compliance with all Federal,
state, and local regulations, and all federal, state, local and industry codes
and standards is required. These include but are not limited to compliance with
the Occupational Safety and Health Act; compliance with the Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices, National Electrical Code and National Electrical
Safety Code; compliance with fiber optic installation standards and
telecommunication industry standards; compliance with plumbing and pipe
installation codes and standards; and compliance with standards and codes for
traffic safety and lane closures. Persons and users shall provide all equipment
and personnel necessary to meet applicable regulations, codes, and standards
and shall furnish additional equipment or personnel if requested by the city.
      (8)   The Public Works Department shall have the discretion to approve,
deny, alter, and condition all proposed locations of facilities in the public
way, and to determine whether placement, if allowed, shall be above ground or
below ground.
      (9)   Wires, fiber, and similar conduit shall be located underground. A
user that wishes to place such facilities above ground shall demonstrate to the
city's satisfaction why above ground placement is necessary. The city
recommends that facilities shall be located in existing ducts if such ducts are
available and practicable to use. Applicants shall take reasonable steps to
procure the right to use existing ducts.
      (10)   A user shall demonstrate to the Public Works Department's
satisfaction that sufficient space exists in the public way for its proposed
facilities without interfering with existing or planned public projects, and
that placement of the facilities will not unduly disrupt use of the public way
or negatively impact the condition of the public way.
      (11)   The city may require a user to post written notice of proposed
work or activities along the public way impacted and/or to distribute notices
to individual properties located along the public way.
      (12)   Users shall give the department all information it requests
regarding the installation of facilities upon completion. Such information may
include, but is not limited to as-built or other maps, which shall be furnished
in the form required by the Public Works Department, and changes to planned
locations that were necessary to avoid pre-existing infrastructure.
      (13)   A person or user that conducts excavation or other activities that
disturb the public rights-of-way or plantings within the public rights-of-way
or facilities within the public way shall restore the area to a functional
condition equivalent to that it was in prior to the disturbance. The
restoration shall include but is not limited to installation of pavement,
resurfacing nearby areas, grading other surface areas, restoring below ground
areas, planting and landscaping, replacing curb ramps to current standard, and
repairing improvements and facilities.
      (14)   Users shall contact the Public Works Department at least 24 hours
prior to actual work performed in the right-of-way except in the case of an
emergency.
      (15)   To the extent permitted by North Carolina law, the city may
require a performance bond for work to be done in the PROW. A user shall at its
own cost relocate its facilities within a time determined in the discretion of
the city if the city determines in its discretion that the facilities were
placed in the PROW without first obtaining permission from the city, and the
facilities:
         (a)   Interfere with the use of the public way, or the provision of
services to city residents; or
         (b)   Interfere with the repair or maintenance of any city-maintained
utility; or
         (c)   Will impede the construction of a project funded in part with
public funds, or a project to be dedicated to the public upon completion.
(Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18)
§ 93.05 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to performing work or placing facilities within a public right-
of-way in the city, a user must obtain an encroachment permit issued by the
City Public Works Department (encroachment permits are also called work
permits). A user shall acquire an encroachment permit from the Public Works
Department for the following activities.
      (1)   Excavation or restoration within the public way, including but not
limited to construction of new portions of the public way;
      (2)   Cutting, moving, or alteration of any pavement, paver (for example,
brick or stone), pipe, conduit, pole, meter, fire hydrant, facility, or other
equipment or structure owned by the city, or attachment to such objects;
      (3)   Installation or repair of facilities within the public way
including but not limited to placing facilities on other facilities already
located in the public way;
      (4)   Construction of private streets (including but not limited to
paving and gutters), sidewalks, or alleys;
      (5)   Installation or repair of facilities for the conveyance of water,
sewer, or stormwater; and
      (6)   Installation or repair of facilities for electrical, gas, video,
internet, telephone, cable, telecommunications, television, or other
information or data transfer service to customers within the city.
      (7)   Work in the rights-of-way that affects traffic patterns, either
permanently or temporarily.
      (8)   The installation of any permanent structures or property in the
PROW, including utilities;
      (9)   Make ready work. The city shall provide estimates for any make-
ready work necessary to enable a city utility pole to support the requested
collocation, including pole replacement if necessary, within 60 days after
receipt of a complete application. Make-ready work, including any pole
replacement, shall be completed within 60 days of written agreement on the cost
of the work;
      (10)   Attachments to or replacements of city utility poles.
   (B)   Attachments to city property (other than city utility poles) in DOT or
other rights of way.
      (1)   The Board of Commissioners may approve agreements for the use of
city property that substitute for encroachment permits, such as the lease of
space on a water tower.
      (2)   No sidewalk of any description shall be built by any individual,
firm or corporation without a written permit from the city.
      (3)   No person shall move any house or building upon or across the
public streets or sidewalks without a permit, and without the deposit of a good
and sufficient bond to cover damage done to any street or sidewalk or to any
property of any person.
      (4)   A permit is required before constructing, reconstructing,
repairing, altering or grading any driveway on the public streets.
(Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18)
§ 93.06 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   An Application must be filed with the Public Works Department for any work
described in §
93.03, including modification, change or replacement of equipment that would be
different in size, weight or appearance than the existing equipment that is not
otherwise exempt under this chapter. The following information shall be
submitted in an application for an encroachment permit.
   (A)   Contact information for the user of the public right-of-way and
contractors performing the work. Include all contractor's/trade's/professional
licenses held and license numbers.
   (B)   Description of the work to be performed, including the specific
location or the requested make ready work.
   (C)   Construction drawings demonstrating compliance with the City of
Creedmoor Engineering Specifications and Standard Details, the NCDOT
Subdivision Road Manual, and the latest edition of the Manual on Uniform
Traffic Control Devices.
   (D)   Description of all existing infrastructure within the proposed work
area and any proposed modification, improvement or movement of infrastructure.
   (E)   Evidence that the owners of other utilities or encroachers near the
new work have been notified.
   (F)   Proposed work schedule.
   (G)   Insurance.
      (1)   The city may require persons that do work in the prow and users to
provide insurance by a company authorized to do business in the state,
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Workers’ compensation coverage for all employees;
         (b)   Employers’ liability insurance;
         (c)   Commercial general liability; and
         (d)   Business auto policy.
      (2)   The city may require that the city, its officials, employees and
consultants be named as additional insureds on such insurance policies; in that
case the applicant shall provide a certificate of insurance. If an applicant
has previously damaged city property or has not adequately repaired damaged
city property during the past three years, the amount of insurance shall be as
determined by the city, in part based on the scope of the work and the tenure
or term of occupancy.
   (H)   To facilitate the preparation and submittal of an application in
compliance with this chapter, and thereby expedite the review and permitting of
an application, a pre-application meeting may be held.
   (I)   No permitting of unidentified facilities. No permit or authorization
shall be granted for new equipment or facilities that is not expressly and
individually identified at the time of the application, including the specific
location and design characteristics of each facility.
   (J)   Site visit. A site visit of each facility or proposed location of a
new facility may be conducted to determine the physical condition of the
facility or proposed location and to identify any issues of concern, non-
compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations, and any safety issues
or concerns
   (K)   Installations in the PROW shall be located and constructed to create
the least visual impact on the immediate surrounding area and the least
physical intrusion and impact on the limited space in the PROW. Such
facilities/equipment shall not be constructed in a sight triangle or so close
to the curb or edge of pavement that a safety hazard is created (see CDO Sec.
2.11, Clear Sight Triangle at Street Intersection).
   (L)   Riser cable. All riser or other vertically run cable of any kind
attached to a pole or other support structure shall be protected with non-
conductive, non-degradable material matching color of pole or support structure
and shall be of a color that matches the color of the pole or other support
structure as closely as is reasonably possible.
   (M)   New and replacement wireless telecommunication facilities (poles or
support structures that are not substantial modifications or routine
maintenance). An application for a new or replacement pole or support structure
must include detailed design criteria, including material composition,
aesthetic appearance and a structural adequacy analysis with calculations which
must be able to be independently verified using the information submitted by
the applicant.
      (1)   New and replacement installations shall be consistent throughout
the city limits;
      (2)   When feasible and in lieu of installing new poles, new
installations shall precipitate replacing an existing distribution pole,
secondary pole or streetlight with a pole that meets the standards set forth in
this section;
      (3)   Installations shall be on non-conductive poles;
      (4)   All wireless facilities and base stations (including radios,
network equipment and batteries) shall be:
         (a)   Enclosed in a pedestal cabinet near the pole;
         (b)   In a pole-mounted cabinet; or
         (c)   Under a pole-mounted shroud.
      (5)   Equipment installations shall be on poles that meet or exceed
current NESC standards and wind and ice loading requirements of the latest
edition of TIA 222.
(Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18)
§ 93.07 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURES, WIRELESS
COMMUNICATION FACILITIES, AND ANY OTHER WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY, SMALL
WIRELESS FACILITY OR MICRO-WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   An applicant shall demonstrate compliance with §§
93.04 through
93.06 and provide the additional supplemental information specific to wireless
facilities, structures and ancillary equipment.
   (A)   To facilitate the application process and to mitigate application-
related costs for applicants, depending upon the scope of the proposed work and
its impact, both visual and physical as determined by the Public Works
Department, applications for small/micro-wireless facilities may be submitted
in groups of up to 25 facilities in a single application.
   (B)   No taxpayer subsidization. Taxpayers may not directly or indirectly
subsidize applicant's costs.
   (C)   Maximum permitted height. 
      (1)   On wireless support structures, utility poles and city utility
poles the maximum permitted height is 50 feet above ground level.
      (2)   Small wireless facilities may extend ten feet above the height of
the utility pole, city utility pole or wireless support facility on which they
are collocated.
      (3)   In the Single Family Residential (SFR), Residential/Main Street
Transitional District (R/MST) and the single family residential portions of the
Traditional Neighborhood Development Overlay (TNDO) zoning districts in areas
where the existing utilities are installed underground the maximum height is 40
feet above ground level.
      (4)   On blocks where, decorative light or utility poles are installed
collocations may only occur on decorative poles if feasible. New poles shall be
of the same design and materials as the decorative poles (see § 93.05 for
information on encroachment on city utility poles).
   (D)   Absent a showing by clear and convincing evidence of the need for a
less lateral distance between poles or other support structures in the PROW,
the minimum lateral distance between poles or other support structures as
measured in any direction shall be 500 feet. This minimum lateral distance
shall not be applicable to poles or support structures that support lines or
cables crossing a street.
   (E)   Compliance with NESC and NEC. All electronic attachments to poles or
other structures in the PROW shall always follow the edition of the National
Electrical Safety Code (NESC) and the National Electrical Code (NEC) in effect
at the later of:
      (1)   The time the facility was constructed; or
      (2)   The time of the last modification of equipment on the pole or other
support structure; or
      (3)   The edition in effect at the time of the current application.
   (F)   Service date. Applicants shall attest that small wireless facilitates
be activated and placed in service no later than one ear from the date the
permit is issued.
   (G)   Abandonment.
      (1)   Wireless services providers are required to remove an abandoned
wireless facility within 180 days of abandonment. Should the wireless services
provider fail to timely remove the abandoned wireless facility, the city may
cause such wireless facility to be removed and may recover the actual cost of
such removal, including legal fees, if any, from the wireless services
provider. For purposes of this section, a wireless facility shall be deemed
abandoned at the earlier of the date that the wireless services provider
indicates that it is abandoning such facility or the date that is 180 days
after the date that such wireless facility ceases to transmit a signal, unless
the wireless services provider gives the city reasonable evidence that it is
diligently working to place such wireless facility back in service.
      (2)   This section applies to rights-of-way controlled by the N.C. Dept.
of Transportation.
(Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18)
§ 93.08 ACCEPTANCE AND IMPROVEMENT OF PUBLIC STREETS.
   Before any new street offered for dedication to the city is accepted as
such, and officially recognized as a city-maintained street, the Board must
give its approval, finding that the street complies with engineering standards
set by the Board, and that the best interests of the city would be served by
accepting the street as a city street. The petition for acceptance of the
streets must be accompanied by a city approved engineer's certification.
(`84 Code, § 4-1001) (Am. Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18)
§ 93.09 REFUSAL TO DISPERSE.
   Any person refusing to disperse upon being so ordered by a police officer
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`84 Code, § 6-2001) (Am. Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18)
§ 93.10 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Failure to acquire a permit or notify the Public Works Department of
work in the right-of-way may result in a stop work order. The stop work order
shall be in writing and state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
   (B)   The violation of a stop work order issued pursuant to this subsection
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable under §
10.99 and may also be subject to a civil penalty in the amount of $100 per day
for each day the violation continues. Civil penalties authorized by this
section may be assessed against the user on whose behalf work is being
performed and against the contractor or subcontractor who is performing such
work.
   (C)   If a user, contractor, or sub-contractor has received a stop work
order within the last three months, the user is required to post a performance
bond for up to 125% of the estimated cost of the work.
   (D)   All the other provisions of Chapter 10, General Provisions of the Code
of Ordinances apply to violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18)
§ 93.11 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms in this division shall have the meaning given
below unless the context indicates otherwise. These meanings shall apply
whether a word is capitalized or not or is singular or plural.
   ANTENNA. Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and
receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of
wireless communications services.
   APPLICATION. A request that is submitted by an applicant to the town for a
permit to collocate wireless facilities or to approve the installation,
modification, or replacement of a utility pole, including town utility poles,
or a wireless support structure.
   AUTHORIZATION. Written permission from the town to do work in the PROW or to
maintain facilities in the PROW and includes but is not limited to a franchise,
a license, a permit, a letter, construction drawing approval. Multiple
authorizations may be required for certain activities.
   BASE STATION. A station at a specific site authorized to communicate with
mobiles stations, generally consisting of radio receivers, antennas, coaxial
cables, power supplies, and other associated electronics.
   COLLOCATION. The placement, installation, maintenance, modification,
operation or replacement of wireless facilities on, under, within, or on the
surface of the earth adjacent to existing structures, including utility poles,
town utility poles, water towers, buildings, and other structures capable of
structurally supporting the attachment of wireless facilities.
   DEPARTMENT. The Public Works Department of the town.
   EMERGENCY. A condition that poses a clear and immediate danger to life or
health, or a significant loss of property, or requires immediate repair to
restore service to a group of users of such service.
   ENCROACHMENT (OR WORK) PERMIT. A written authorization allowing a user or
applicant to work in the town rights-of-way, including both temporary
encroachments, such as construction and permanent encroachments, such as the
installation of fixtures.
   EXCAVATE. Without limitation any cutting, digging, grading, tunneling,
boring, or other alteration of the surface or subsurface material or earth in
the public way.
   FACILITIES. Poles, pipes, culverts, conduits, ducts, cables, wires, fiber,
amplifiers, pedestals, antennae, transmission or receiving equipment, other
electronic equipment, electrical conductors, manholes, appliances, signs,
poles, pavement structures, irrigation systems, landscaping, monument signs,
monument mailboxes and any other similar equipment, for public or private use.
   MAKE READY WORK. Any modification or replacement of a town utility pole
necessary for the town utility pole to support a small wireless facility in
compliance with applicable safety requirements, including the National
Electrical Safety Code, that is performed in preparation for a collocation
installation.
   MICRO-WIRELESS FACILITY. A small wireless facility that is no larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any, no longer than 11 inches.
   ROUTINE MAINTENANCE. Activities associated with regular and general upkeep
of transmission equipment, including the replacement of existing wireless
facilities with wireless facilities of the same size.
   PERSON. An individual, association, firm, partnership, limited liability
company, joint venture, corporation, government, utility, or other organized
entity able to contract for the activities described in this chapter, whether
for profit or not for profit. The term does not include the town.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY (PROW). The area that is used as, or offered, dedicated,
or reserved for use as a public street, highway, alley, trail, sidewalk, curb,
gutter, bike lane, bridge, round-about, tunnel, causeway, or shoulder, that is
in the town or in an area proposed for annexation to the town. The area also
includes, without limitation, drainage areas and dedicated areas without
surface improvements that are adjacent to improved areas, and areas where no
roads or other improvements have been constructed but which are dedicated for
one or more of the above uses. The public way encompasses the surface of the
ground, and the area above and below the ground. Sometimes referred to as town
right-of-way.
   SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
      (1)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all its exposed elements, if enclosed, could fit within an
enclosure of no more than six cubic feet.
      (2)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility has a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet. For purposes of this
subdivision, the following types of ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services, or other support structures.
   SUBSTANTIAL MODIFICATION. The mounting of a proposed wireless facility on a
wireless support structure that substantially changes the physical dimensions
of the support structure. A mounting is presumed to be a substantial
modification if it meets any one or more of the criteria listed below.
      (1)   Increasing the existing vertical height of the structure by the
greater of:
         (a)   More than 10%; or
         (b)   The height of one additional antenna array with separation from
the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 20 feet.
      (2)   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement
weather or to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an
appurtenance to the body of a wireless support structure that protrudes
horizontally from the edge of the wireless support structure the greater of:
         (a)   More than 20 feet; or
         (b)   More than the width of the wireless support structure at the
level of the appurtenance.
         (c)   Increasing the square footage of the existing equipment compound
by more than 2,500 square feet.
   TOWN UTILITY POLE. A pole owned by a town in the town right-of-way that
provides lighting, traffic control, or a similar function.
   USER. A person that proposes to place facilities in the public way, places
such facilities, or owns or maintains such facilities.
   UTILITY POLE. A structure not owned by the Town of Selma that is designed
for and used to carry lines, cables, wires, lighting facilities or small
wireless facilities for telephone, cable television, or electricity, or to
provide lighting or wireless services.
(Ord. 2018-O-02, passed 2-20-18)
CHAPTER 94: PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Permit required
   
94.03   Standards
   
94.04   Requirements for the issuance of permits
   
94.05   Certain activities prohibited
   
94.06   Revocation of permit
   
94.07   Interference prohibited
   
94.08   Additional regulations applicable to picketing
   
94.09   Exceptions
§ 94.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. The portion of any street lying between its intersections with other
streets.
   GROUP DEMONSTRATION. Any assembly together or concert of action between or
among two or more persons for the purpose of protesting any matter or of making
known any position or promotion of the persons, or of or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons, or for the purpose of attracting attention of
the assembly.
   PARADE. Any assemblage of two or more persons participating in or operating
any vehicle in any march, ceremony, show, exhibition or procession of any kind
in or upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parks or other public grounds
or places.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or other
organization, whether formal or informal.
   PICKET LINE. Any two or more persons formed together for the purpose of
making known any  position or promotion of the persons, or on behalf of any
organization or class of persons.
(`84 Code, § 6-2031) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
§ 94.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to organize, conduct or participate in
any parade, picket line or group demonstration in or upon any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public place within the city, unless a permit therefor has been
issued in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Violation of this
section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 6-2032) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 STANDARDS.
   The Chief of Police shall not issue a permit if he or she finds that:
   (A)   The parades, picket lines or group demonstrations are to commence
before 6:00 a.m. or terminate after 5:00 p.m.;
   (B)   The parades or group demonstrations are to be held at the same time
and place as those designated in a permit issued pursuant to a written
application previously received by the Chief of Police or his or her designee;
   (C)   The conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
of the parade and of contiguous areas so that adequate police protection cannot
be provided the remainder of the city;
   (E)   The conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances so that adequate ambulance service to portions of the city
not occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented;
   (F)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (G)   The conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence
to persons or property causing serious harm to the public;
   (H)   The parade is to be held for the primary purposes of advertising a
product, good or event, and is designed to be held primarily for private
profit; or
   (I)   The conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of fire-
fighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot be
provided to the city.
(`84 Code, § 6-2033)
§ 94.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall issue permits as required
in §
94.03, and in the issuance thereof he or she shall:
   (A)   Require a written application for a permit to be filed not less than
24 hours in advance of the parade, picket line or group demonstration, which
application shall specify the time and place for the commencement of any picket
line and the time, place, route and duration of any parade or group
demonstration;
   (B)   Require that the application for a permit specify whether or not
minors below the age of 18 years will be permitted to participate; and
   (C)   Require that the application for a permit specify, and the permit
shall designate, the person or persons in charge of the activity. The person
shall be required to accompany the parade, picket line or group demonstration
and shall carry the permit with him or her at that time. The permit shall not
be valid in the possession of any other person.
(`84 Code, § 6-2034)
§ 94.05 CERTAIN ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   The following acts or activities, when performed or undertaken in
conjunction with or as a part of, any parade, picket line, or group
demonstration, are hereby prohibited and declared unlawful:
   (A)   The carrying on or about the person any firearm, or any weapon or
article, including but not limited to blackjacks, nightsticks or flashlights,
which by their use might constitute a deadly weapon.
   (B)   The taking or keeping of any dog or other vicious animal, whether
leashed or unleashed.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 6-2035) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police shall revoke any permit granted for a parade, picket
line or group demonstration for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The violation by any participant of §
94.05; and/or
   (B)   The failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.
(`84 Code, § 6-2036)
§ 94.07 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere with any parade,
picket line or group demonstration being conducted under authority of a permit
duly issued by the Chief of Police. Violation of this section may constitute an
infraction in accordance with § 10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 6-2037) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.08 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO PICKETING.
   Picket lines and picketing shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (A)   Picketing may be conducted only on the sidewalks or other areas
reserved for pedestrian movement, and may not be conducted on the portion of a
street used primarily for vehicular traffic.
   (B)   Not more than three pickets promoting the same objective shall be
permitted to use either of the two sidewalks within a single block at any time;
provided, if pickets promoting different objectives desire to use sidewalks in
the same block for picketing and the use would result in the presence of more
than three pickets thereon, the Chief of Police shall allot time to each group
of pickets for the use of the sidewalks on an equitable basis, but each group
shall be permitted to picket, subject to the provisions of this chapter, at
least once every two hours.
   (C)   Pickets may carry written or printed placards or signs not exceeding
two feet in width and two feet in length promoting the objective for which the
picketing is done; provided, the words used are not defamatory in nature, or
would not tend to produce violence.
   (D)   Pickets must march in single file and not abreast and must not march
closer together than 15 feet, except in passing one another.
   (E)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 6-2038) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   Sections
94.01 through
94.08 shall not apply to:
   (A)   Funeral processions; or
   (B)   Any governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
(`84 Code, § 6-2039)
CHAPTER 95: HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES; HAZARDOUS WASTE
Section
   
95.01   Transportation and storage of oils and/or hazardous substances
   
95.02   Use of thoroughfares for transport of hazardous waste
§ 95.01 TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE OF OILS AND/OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to create or
to assist in creating or to permit or continue or permit the continuance of the
storage of any oil or other hazardous substance within the city limits or
within the one-mile extra-territorial jurisdiction of the city except where the
oil or other hazardous substance is securely contained within a vehicle, tank
or other container unless first authorized by permit duly granted upon written
application to the Board of City Commissions of the city (this application is
to state the source of the materials, the purpose of temporary storage of the
materials within the city, the proposed location of the storage area, the
duration of the storage, the ultimate site of the disposition of the materials,
a statement that a permit has been issued for the ultimate disposition of the
materials or that an application for such a permit has been made to an approved
hazard waste facility, the name of the owner of the proposed storage area, and
the name of the owner of the materials) and the posting of a bond in such
reasonable amount as may be determined by the Board upon the condition that the
materials will be safely stored and removed from the city limits and the city's
extra- territorial jurisdiction within the time period set forth in the
application and providing for the forfeiture of the bond to the city upon the
failure of the applicant to abide by the terms of the application and the bond.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUID. Any kind and in any form, including but
specifically not limited to, petroleum, crude oil, diesel oil, fuel oil,
gasoline, lubrication oil, oil refuse, oil mixes with other waste, oil sludge,
petroleum related products or by-products, and all other liquid hydrocarbons,
regardless of specific gravity, whether singly or in combination with other
substances.
      HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. Any substance other than oil, which when discharged
in any quantity may present an imminent and substantial danger to the public
health or welfare, as designated pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.77A, as this
statute may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Storage of those materials are regulated by the NC Fire Code, and all
permits for said storage must be issued by the City Code Enforcement Officer.
   (D)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 89-O-06, passed 5-23-89; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 95.02 USE OF THOROUGHFARES FOR TRANSPORT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Hazardous waste will not be permitted to enter the city between the
hours of:
      (1)   6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m.;
      (2)   2:30 p.m. to 6:00 p.m.; and
      (3)   11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   There will be no hazardous waste transported on any city maintained
streets. Trucks carrying hazardous waste must stay on thoroughfare streets.
   (C)   Trucks transporting hazardous waste must have headlights burning and
emergency lights in operation at all times while in the city limits.
   (D)   If a truck transporting hazardous waste becomes disabled in the city,
the driver shall immediately notify the Police Department so that the area can
be appropriately secured.
   (E)   Any city personnel that are required to perform duties, beyond their
respective normal requirements, will be paid for by the offending entity.
   (F)   If I-85 is closed causing vehicular traffic to be routed through the
city, vehicles transporting hazardous waste will not be allowed to come into
the city, due to the dramatic increase in the volume of vehicles and increased
congestion.
   (G)   If weather conditions such as snow and ice exist on streets in the
city, no hazardous waste shall be allowed to traverse the city.
   (H)   If it is deemed necessary by the Police Department that information,
regarding the contents of a truck hauling hazardous waste, be obtained to
protect the health and safety of the city's citizens, then the officer in
charge will have the right to inspect the manifest and logbook of the vehicle.
   (I)   Any hazardous waste to be transported for incineration must be
identified and the time that the vehicle is to enter the city must be given to
the Police Department at a minimum of 48 hours before entering the city limits.
   (J)   In the event of a hazardous waste spill, any costs incurred for
evacuation and housing of affected residents shall be borne by the offending
entity.
   (K)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 90-O-14, passed, 7-24-90; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see
§
10.99
CHAPTER 96: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
96.01   Unnecessary noise
   
96.02   Loitering and loafing
   
96.03   Breaking police lines
   
96.04   Public disturbances; assemblages
   
96.05   Distribution of literature; display of signs
   
96.06   Filling land; dumping
   
96.07   Care of residential and commercial premises
   
96.08   Public nuisance conditions, private property
   
96.09   Debris in stormwater drainage system
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the creation of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise is prohibited. Noise of
this character, intensity, and duration as to be detrimental to the life or
health of any individual is prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing,
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, however this enumeration
shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding of any horn, signal, or breaking device or any device
on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except
as a danger signal, or if in motion only as a signal necessitated by traffic
conditions, the creation by means of any such signal device of any unreasonably
loud or harsh sound, and the sounding of the device for an unnecessary and
unreasonable period of time;
      (2)   The use of any gong or siren upon any vehicle, other than police,
fire or other emergency vehicle;
      (3)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, or other musical instrument
(with sound emitting from a residence or motor vehicle, carried by a
pedestrian, or from some other source) in such a manner or with such volume, as
to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any person;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by causing frequent or
long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (5)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud or unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (6)   The blowing of any whistle attached to any stationary boiler except
to give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of danger;
      (7)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or any engine except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises;
      (8)   The use of any mechanical device operated by compressed air unless
the noise created thereby is effectively muffled and reduced;
      (9)   The erection (including excavation), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building in a residential or business district other than between
the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday; 8:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. Saturday, except in the case of urgent necessity in the interest of public
safety and then only with a permit from the Building Inspector, which permit
may be renewed for a period of three days or less while the emergency
continues;
      (10)   Utility and road construction operations other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on weekdays and 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. on
weekends for which permits have been issued or for which permits are not
required due to ownership of the project by an agency of government, providing
all equipment is operated in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications
and with all the manufacturer's standard mufflers and noise-reducing equipment
in use and operating properly;
      (11)   The creation of any excessive noise on any street or road adjacent
to any school, institution of learning, or court while in session, which
unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution, provided
conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets indicating that the same is a
school or court street;
      (12)   The creation of any excessive noise on Sundays on any street or
road adjacent to any religious institution while in session, provided
conspicuous signs are displayed in the streets adjacent to religious
institutions indicating such an institution is located along that roadway;
      (13)   The creation of loud and excessive noise in connection with
loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales,
boxes, crates, and containers;
      (14)   The sounding of any bell or gong attached to any building or
premises which disturb the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity;
      (15)   The shouting and crying of peddlers, barkers, hawkers, or vendors
which disturbs the quiet or repose of persons in the vicinity;
      (16)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale, or
display of merchandise;
      (17)   The use of any mechanical loudspeakers or amplifiers on trucks or
other moving vehicles for advertising or other purposes except where specific
license is received from the city, provided that advertising sound trucks may
make not more than three continuous round trips in the fire district between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., on condition that the sound devices on
the trucks shall be kept silent unless the truck is moving at a speed of not
less than 15 miles per hour;
      (18)   The conducting, operating, or maintaining of any garage or filling
station in any residential district so as to cause loud or offensive noises to
be emitted between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (19)   The maintenance and operation of radios, amplifiers, phonographs,
or other mechanical instruments or devices of any kind whereby the sound is
cast directly from the streets or other public places, however the provisions
of this division do not apply to Christmas or religious music;
      (20)   Playing or permitting to be played any piccolo, jukebox, or other
musical mechanical slot machine between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
or
      (21)   The gathering of ten or more persons for the purpose of rallies,
recreation events, speeches, parades, or similar gathering between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., particularly in close proximity to residential
neighborhoods, so that the sleep and repose of persons in any dwelling or other
type of residence is likely to be disturbed.
   (C)   Exceptions to this section. The following are exempt from the
provisions of this section, however this enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Any bell or chime from any building clock, school, or religious
institution;
      (2)   Any siren, whistle, or bell lawfully used by emergency vehicles or
any other alarm systems used in an emergency situation, provided that burglar
alarms not terminating within 30 minutes after the responsible person has been
notified shall be unlawful;
      (3)   Noise created as a result of or relating to an emergency;
      (4)   Warning devices required by OSHA or any local, county, state, or
federal safety regulations;
      (5)   Noises resulting from the provision of sanitation services;
      (6)   All noises coming from motor vehicles properly equipped with the
manufacturer's standard mufflers and noise reducing equipment;
      (7)   Noise from lawful fireworks and noisemakers on holidays;
      (8)   Lawn mowers and agricultural equipment used between the daylight
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. when operated with all the manufacturer's
standard mufflers and noise-reducing equipment in use and operating properly;
      (9)   Sound amplification equipment used in conjunction with a
telecommunications system on business properties to notify employees of that
business of incoming phone calls, providing that this system be used only
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. and that any speakers attached to
the system be oriented toward the interior of the property;
      (10)   Sound emanating from regularly scheduled, outdoor athletic events
held or co-sponsored by the Recreation Department;
      (11)   Any other noise resulting from activities of a temporary duration
permitted by law and for which a license or permit has been granted by the city
in accordance with the exceptions enumerated in this section;
      (12)   Noises resulting from the provision of government services; or
      (13)   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a fire, accident, or natural disaster; to restore public utilities;
or to protect persons or property from an imminent danger.
   (D)   Enforcement and penalties/or violation of section. Where there is a
violation of any provision of this section, the city, at its discretion, may
take one or more of the following enforcement actions:
      (1)   In accordance with the current City of Creedmoor Fee and Rate
Schedule, a police officer may issue a citation subjecting the violator to a
civil penalty as stated in the schedule, which may provide for a delinquency
charge upon nonpayment of $25, and which penalty and delinquency charge may be
recovered by the city in a civil action;
      (2)   A misdemeanor warrant may be issued either immediately or upon the
issuance of a citation and the violator's failure to pay the citation.
Misdemeanors shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment
for up to 30 days; or
      (3)   A civil action seeking a penalty of $500 per day of violation plus
injunction and order of abatement may be directed toward any person creating or
allowing the creation of any unlawful noise, including the owner or person
otherwise having legal or actual control of the premises from which it
emanates.
   (E)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-5001) (Ord. passed 4-30-68; Am. Ord. 2010-O-09, passed 7-27-10;
Am. Ord. 2011-O-07, passed 9-27-11; Am. Ord. 2013-O-04, passed 4-8-13; Am. Ord.
2014-O-02, passed 5-27-14; 2015-O-12, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
96.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate noise, see G.S. § 160A-184
§ 96.02 LOITERING AND LOAFING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to congregate, stand, loaf or
loiter in any street or upon any sidewalk, bridge, crossing or other public
place so as to obstruct the same, or to hinder, prevent or annoy persons
passing or attempting or desiring to pass therein or thereon; or to congregate,
stand, loaf or loiter on or in front of any hall, lobby, doorway, passage or
entrance of any public building, theater, public hall, hotel, eating or lodging
house, office building, store, shop, office or factory or other like building
or place of public assemblage so as to obstruct the same or hinder, prevent or
annoy persons passing along or into the same or out of the same, or attempting
or desiring to do so; or by making remarks, gestures, noises, signs or the like
to disturb, annoy or insult any person being upon or passing along any street,
sidewalk, bridge, crossing or other public place, or along, into or out of the
hall, lobby, passage, or entrance of any public building, theater, public hall,
hotel, eating or lodging house, office building, store, shop or factory or like
building or place of public assemblage or in any public carrier. Violation of
this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-5002) (Ord. passed 1-29-63; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 BREAKING POLICE LINES.
   At the time of any public parade, accident, riot, public peril or other
circumstances causing people to congregate or assemble, it shall be unlawful
for any person to enter, break through or remain within the danger lines or
other bounds established by the police, or by or under the direction of any
authorized city official, for the preservation of public safety, peace and
order, unless such person is authorized to do so by an officer in charge.
Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-5003) (Ord. passed 1-29-63; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 PUBLIC DISTURBANCES; ASSEMBLAGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, aid or countenance, or assist
in making, any improper noise, or to incite or engage in any riot or
disturbance, or to indulge or engage in improper and disorderly conduct or
conversation in any street, park or other public place, in any theater or place
of amusement or in any room or building in which any number of persons are
lawfully assembled. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in
accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-5004) (Ord. passed 1-29-63; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 DISTRIBUTION OF LITERATURE; DISPLAY OF SIGNS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to print, sell, distribute, leave to be
distributed or taken, or display, or to aid, directly or indirectly, in
printing, selling, distributing, circulating, leaving or displaying any bills,
notices, signs, circulars or printed matter in any form which tends to disturb
the public peace or morals, or which, directly or indirectly, advises,
advocates, or urges the overthrow of the government of the United States of
America or any state thereof, or any municipal corporation therein, by the use
of violence, force or other unlawful methods, or which advises, advocates or
urges the commission of any crime or any violation of law. Violation of this
section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-5005) (Ord. passed 1-29-63; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 FILLING LAND; DUMPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fill any land or dump, upon any
vacant lot within the city, with garbage, dead animals, decaying vegetable or
animal matter or any offensive material. Violation of this section may
constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-5006) (Ord. passed 10-25-66; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.07 CARE OF RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of a residential or
commercial building, structure or property to utilize the premises of such
residential property for the open storage of any abandoned motor vehicle, ice
box, refrigerator, stove, glass, building material, building rubbish or similar
items. It shall be the duty and responsibility of every owner or occupant to
keep the premises of the residential or commercial property clean and to remove
from the premises all abandoned items as listed above, including but not
limited to weeds, dead trees, trash, garbage and the like, upon notice from the
Building Inspector.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, an abandoned motor vehicle is defined
as one that is in a state of disrepair and incapable of being moved under its
own power.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-5007) (Ord. passed 4-29-69; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Penalty, see §
96.99
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned, junked and nuisance vehicles, see
Chapter 90
   Public nuisance conditions, private property, see §
96.08
§ 96.08 PUBLIC NUISANCE CONDITIONS, PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Administration. For the purpose of this section the term NUISANCE
shall mean or refer to any condition or any use of property or any act or
omission affecting the condition or use of property which threatens or is
likely to threaten the safety of the public; adversely affects the general
health, happiness, security or welfare of others; or, is detrimental to the
rights of others to the full use of their own property and their own comfort,
happiness and emotional stability because of decreased property values and the
unsightliness and decreased livability of neighborhoods.
   (B)   Declaration of public nuisance. The following enumerated and described
conditions, or any combination thereof, are hereby found, deemed, and declared
to constitute a detriment, danger and hazard to the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the city and are found, deemed and
declared to be public nuisances wherever the conditions may exist and the
creation, maintenance or failure to abate any nuisances is hereby declared
unlawful:
      (1)   Any weeds or other vegetation having an overall height of more than
12 inches above the surrounding ground provided that the following shall not be
considered to be a part of this condition: trees and ornamental shrubs;
cultured plants; natural vegetation on undeveloped property that is not a
threat to the character of surrounding properties; and flowers and growing and
producing vegetable plants.
      (2)   Any accumulation of trash, garbage, food waste and other trash
which is the result of the absence of, or overflowing of, or improperly closed
trash or garbage containers, that attracts or is likely to attract mice and
rats, flies and mosquitoes or other pests.
      (3)   An open or unsecured storage or collection place for chemicals,
acids, oils, gasoline, flammable or combustible materials or flammable or
combustible liquids, poisonous materials or other similar harmful or dangerous
substances, gasses or vapors.
      (4)   An open place, collection, storage place or concentration of
combustible items such as mattresses, boxes, paper, automobile tires and tubes,
garbage, trash, refuse, brush, old clothes, rags, or any other combustible
materials collection.
      (5)   An open storage place for old worn out, broken or discarded
machinery, car parts, junk, tire rims, furniture, stoves, refrigerators,
appliances, cans and containers, household goods, plumbing or electrical
fixtures, old rusty metal, fencing materials or other similar materials.
      (6)   Any accumulation of garbage, rubbish, trash, or junk causing or
threatening to cause a fire hazard, or causing or threatening to cause the
accumulation of stagnant water, or causing or threatening to cause the
inhabitation therein of rats, mice, snakes, mosquitoes, or vermin prejudicial
to the public health.
      (7)   Any accumulation of animal or vegetable matter that is offensive by
virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitance therein of rats, mice, snakes,
or vermin of any kind which is or may be dangerous or prejudicial to the public
health.
      (8)   The open storage of any discarded ice box, furniture, refrigerator,
stove, glass, building materials, building rubbish or similar items. The use of
carports, open porches, decks, open garages and other outdoor areas that are
visible from the street as a storage or collection place for boxes, appliances,
furniture (not typical outdoor or yard furniture), tools, equipment, junk,
garbage, old worn out broken or discarded machinery and equipment, cans,
containers, household goods or other similar condition that increase the
likelihood of a fire; may conceal dangerous conditions; may be a breeding place
or habitat for mice, rats or other pests; or, create an unattractive condition
or visually blighted property.
      (9)   A collection place for lumber, bricks, blocks, nails, building
hardware, roofing materials, scaffolding, masonry materials, electrical
supplies or materials, plumbing supplies or materials, heating and air
conditioning supplies or materials or any other type of old or unusable
building supplies (especially those with nails, staples or sharp objects and
edges) unless such conditions are temporary in nature and caused by a current
construction project in progress pursuant to a lawfully issued building permit.
      (10)   Any building or other structure which has been burned, partially
burned or otherwise partially destroyed and which is unsightly or hazardous to
the safety of any person, is a continuing fire hazard or which is structurally
unsound to the extent that the Code Administrator or his or her designee can
reasonably determine that there is a likelihood of personal or property injury
to any person or property entering the premises.
      (11)   The placement, storage or use of upholstered sofas, couches,
chairs or other indoor type furniture, appliances, seats removed from motor
vehicles or other furniture not intended for outdoor use by the manufacturer,
use on any open porch, carport, stoop, deck, veranda, terrace, patio or other
outdoor area that is visible from nearby streets and sidewalks.
      (12)   A collection place, pool or pond of stagnant or foul water or
persistent dampness caused by overflowing septic tanks, manmade dams, open
ditches, overflowing pipes, foundation trenches or other impoundments of any
kind.
      (13)   Barns or farm animal pens, pastures or enclosures for farm animals
which are not kept sanitary and clean or otherwise become a collection place
for animal waste and which because of the conditions associated therewith
attract rats, mice, flies or other pests or emit foul odors that can be
detected or noticed on adjacent properties or are otherwise not kept in a
sanitary condition.
      (14)   Dog lots, pens, pet enclosures of all kinds, outdoor areas where
dogs or other pets are chained or kept or areas where dogs and cats are
permitted to roam which become a collection place for dog, cat or pet waste and
excrement and which attract flies or other pests, emit foul odors which can be
detected or noticed on adjacent property or are not kept in a sanitary
condition.
      (15)   A collection place for sewage and sewage drainage or the seepage
from septic tanks, broken or malfunctioning plumbing and sewer pipes or any
other seepage of dangerous, hazardous or poisonous liquids.
      (16)   A collection place for tree limbs, dried brush, dead vegetation,
stumps or other decayed wood and materials or other similar rubbish.
      (17)   Any discharge into or polluting of any stream, creek, river or
other body of water or the discharge of any dangerous substance or any other
material likely to harm the water or any vegetation, fish or wildlife in or
along the water or the storage of such harmful materials and substances in a
manner so that it is likely that such streams, creeks, rivers or other bodies
of water will become polluted or adversely affected in any manner.
      (18)   Any condition which blocks, hinders, or obstructs in any way the
natural flow of branches, streams, creeks, surface waters, ditches, or drains,
to the extent that the premises is not free from standing water.
      (19)   Any conditions or use of property, which results in the emission
of pollutants and particles into the atmosphere or causes noxious odors, vapors
and stenches to be discharged into the air.
      (20)   Nuisance vehicle. A vehicle on public or private property that is
determined and declared to be a health or safety hazard, a public nuisance, and
unlawful, including a vehicle found to be:
         (a)   A breeding ground or harbor for mosquitoes, other insects, rats
or other pests;
         (b)   A point of heavy growth of weeds or other noxious vegetation
which exceeds eight inches in height;
         (c)   In a condition allowing the collection of pools or ponds of
water;
         (d)   A concentration of quantities of gasoline, oil, or other
flammable or explosive materials as evidenced by odor;
         (e)   An area of confinement which cannot be operated from the inside,
such as, but not limited to, trunks or hoods;
         (f)   So situated or located that there is a danger of it falling or
turning over;
         (g)   A collection of garbage, food waste, animal waste, or any other
rotten or putrescent matter of any kind;
         (h)   One which has sharp parts thereof which are jagged or contain
sharp edges of metal or glass; or
         (i)   Any other vehicle specifically declared a health and safety
hazard and a public nuisance by the Board of Commissioners.
      (21)   Any condition detrimental to the public health which violates the
rules and regulations of the County Health Departments.
   (C)   Complaint; investigation of public nuisance. When any condition in
violation of this section is found to exist, the Code Administrator or such
persons as may be designated by the Board of Commissioners shall give notice to
the owner of the premises to abate or remove such conditions within ten days.
Such notice shall be in writing, shall include a description of the premises
sufficient for identification and shall set forth the violation and state that,
if the violation is not corrected within ten days, the city may proceed to
correct the same as authorized by this section. Service of such notice shall be
by anyone of the following methods.
      (1)   By delivery to any owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person who is over the age of 16 years
and a member of the family of the owner.
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his or her last known address with regular mail postage prepaid
thereon.
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted, for ten days, a copy of the notice,
in placard form, in a conspicuous place on the premises on which the violation
exists, when notice cannot be served by method (1) and (2) above.
   (D)   Abatement procedure. If the owner of any property fails to comply with
a notice given pursuant to this section, within ten days after the service of
such notice, he shall be subject to prosecution for violation of this section
in accordance with law and each day that such failure continues shall be a
separate offense. In addition, the city may have the condition described in the
notice abated, removed or otherwise corrected and all expenses incurred thereby
shall be chargeable to and paid by the owner of the property and shall be
collected as taxes and levies are collected. All such expenses shall constitute
a lien against the property on which the work was done.
   (E)   Procedure is alternative. The procedure set forth in this section
shall be in addition to any other remedies that may now or hereafter exist
under law for the abatement of public nuisances, and this section shall not
prevent the city from proceeding in a criminal action against any person, firm
or corporation violating the provisions of this section as provided in G. S. §
14-4. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any violation of the
terms of this section shall subject the violator to the penalties and remedies,
either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances.
   (F)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2010-O-17, passed 12-14-10; Am. Ord. 2013-O-06, passed 5-28-13; Am. Ord.
2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
Statutory reference:
   Abatement of public health nuisances see G.S. § 160A-193
§ 96.09 DEBRIS IN STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Findings. Yard waste such as leaves, grass clippings, and soil/
sediment can cause significant water quality problems when blown or directed
into the city's stormwater drainage system. Water quality problems include
algal blooms and aquatic weed growth, oxygen depletion, fish kills, and
impaired aquatic habitat. In addition, when the stormwater system is clogged
with yard waste it can cause street and property flooding.
   (B)   Restrictions on debris.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to rake, sweep, blow, wash,
direct or place any debris, including but not limited to yard waste, grass
clippings, leaves, sediment, trash, or debris of any kind into the storm
drainage system of the city, including any streets, storm drains, ditches,
swales, streams, lakes, culverts, rights-of-way, dedicated easements, or in any
other area where it might impede the flow of water through the storm drainage
system of the city.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of all property owners within the city to take
adequate precautions on their property to ensure positive drainage on their
property. Such drainage may be provided either through natural or artificial
drains found to be adequate by the City Engineer. The owner shall keep all
ditches, drains, swales, and drainage routes free from obstructions which would
impede the flow of water.
      (3)   The following are preferred best management practices (BMPs) for
yard waste and debris:
         (a)   Prevent yard waste and debris from entering the street, storm
drain, ditch, or other parts of the drainage system.
         (b)   Direct or blow yard waste back onto a lawn or landscape area.
         (c)   Sweep, rake, and/or collect yard waste instead of hosing/
sweeping off of driveways, sidewalks or other impervious surfaces.
         (d)   Leave grass clippings on the lawn to decompose quickly and act
as a natural fertilizer and soil conditioner (‘grass cycle’).
         (e)   Compost yard debris for use in the lawn, garden, or landscape.
         (f)   Collect and contain yard waste for city collection service
according to specific yard waste collection policies. Do not use the city trash
cart for yard waste or debris.
      (4)   Any condition in violation of this section shall constitute a
public nuisance, subject to civil penalties as describe in division (C) below.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Civil penalties described herein apply only to violations of this
section.
      (2)   Civil penalties shall be assessed upon determination of a violation
of this section. The enforcement official of the city may immediately and
without prior notice cause a citation in the amount of $50 to be issued to the
violator either hand delivered or posted in the U.S. mail service by first
class mail addressed to the last known address of the violator as contained in
the records of Granville County. The citation shall set out the nature of the
violation, the section of the City Code violated, the date of the violation,
and shall contain an order to immediately cease the violation. The violator
shall be deemed to have been served upon the mailing of the citation or upon
hand delivery of the citation.
      (3)   Citations may be issued for each day the offense continues until
the prohibited activity is ceased or abated.
      (4)   Continuing violation abatement procedure. If the owner of any
property fails to comply with a notice of violation given pursuant to this
section, within two days after the service of the notice, the city may have the
condition described in the notice abated, removed, or otherwise corrected. All
expenses incurred thereby shall be chargeable and paid by the owner of the
property, and shall be collected as taxes and levies are collected. All such
expenses shall constitute a lien against the property on which the work was
done.
(Ord. 2012-O-05, passed 9-25-12)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   The actual cost incurred by the city in removing or otherwise
remedying a public nuisance shall be charged to the owner of the lot or parcel
of land, and it shall be the duty of the Tax Collector to mail a statement of
the charges to the owner or other person in possession of the premises with
instructions that the charges are due and payable within 30 days from the
receipt thereof.
(`84 Code, § 8-4005)
      (2)   In the event charges for the removal or abatement of a public
nuisance are not paid within 30 days after the receipt of a statement of the
charges, the charges shall become a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance existed and shall be collected as unpaid taxes, as provided in
G.S. § 160A-193.
(`84 Code, § 8-4006) (Ord. passed 3-25-80; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
CHAPTER 97: ANIMALS
Section
   
97.01   Adopted by reference; Granville County Animal Control Ordinance Chapter
11
   
97.02   Cruelty to animals
   
97.03   Regulation of fowl
   
97.04   Pigeons to be confined
   
97.05   Livestock prohibited
   
97.06   Pet waste left on public owned property prohibited
   
97.07   Beekeeping
   
97.08   No slaughter of domestic fowl on residentially zoned property
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Removal of dead animals, see §
50.20
§ 97.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; GRANVILLE COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL ORDINANCE CHAPTER
11.
   Granville County Ordinance Chapter 11 "Animals" originally adopted 11-2-1998
and any future amendments attached to said ordinance are hereby adopted by
reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 99-R-3, passed 2-23-99; Am. Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord.
2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
§ 97.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mistreat any animals or to willfully
frighten them, or to attend or stage any animal or fowl fight. Violation of
this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
('84 Code, § 8-2001) (Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Cruelty to animals generally, see G.S. § 14-360 et seq.
   Municipal authority to prevent the abuse of animals, see G.S. § 160A-182
§ 97.03 REGULATION OF FOWL.
   (A)   Citizens are allowed to responsibly keep a maximum of five domestic
chickens, geese, or ducks on a non-commercial basis on any residential lot
under one acre within the corporate limits of the city. A maximum often
domestic chickens, ducks or geese may be responsibly kept on lots exceeding one
acre. A coop and a pen shall be provided by the owner of the domestic fowl. The
coop and surrounding area shall be kept in a clean, neat and sanitary condition
at all times.
   (B)   Backyard poultry keepers shall register their small flocks with the
North Carolina Department of Agriculture's NC Farm ID Small Flock Registration
Program. Proof of registration shall be available upon request.
   (C)   Noise and odor shall not disturb people of a reasonable sensitivity at
the property boundaries.
   (D)   Eggs, baby chicks, ducklings, or baby geese shall not be offered for
sale from residentially zoned properties within the city's corporate
boundaries.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit ducks, geese or chickens
to remain on or in any of the streets or public places, or to run at large.
   (F)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
97.99
§ 97.04 PIGEONS TO BE CONFINED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep pigeons, except when the pigeons
are properly kept in a cage or enclosure at all times. Violation of this
section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-2004) (Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01,
passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 LIVESTOCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any Livestock (farm
animals as defined in G.S. § 160A-203.1) within the corporate limits.
   (B)   Horses, ponies and goats may be kept within the corporate limits on
lots at least one acre in size, limited to one such animal on the first acre,
and one additional animal per one-half additional acre. Property containing
such animals shall be adequately fenced so as to prevent running at large.
   (C)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
97.99 
Statutory reference:
   City authority to adopt animal ordinances, see G.S. § 160A-203.1 (Session
Law 2015-192 House Bill 553, adopted August 3, 2015)
§ 97.06 PET WASTE LEFT ON PUBLIC OWNED PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any animal to fail or refuse to remove
feces deposited by the animal on any street, sidewalk, park, or other publicly
owned area. Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in
accordance with § 10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
97.99
§ 97.07 BEEKEEPING.
   (A)   Up to five beehives are allowed on a single parcel within the
corporate limits.
   (B)   Hives shall be placed at ground level or securely attached to anchor
stands.
   (C)   Hives can be placed no closer to property lines than ten feet.
   (D)   The beehives must be removed from the premises if the owner no longer
maintains it, or if removal is necessary to protect the public's health,
safety, and welfare.
   (E)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
97.99
Statutory reference:
   Local Regulation of Beehives G.S. § 106-645 (Session Law 2015-246, House
Bill 44, adopted September 23, 2015)
§ 97.08 NO SLAUGHTER OF DOMESTIC FOWL ON RESIDENTIALLY ZONED PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to slaughter fowl outdoors on any
residentially zoned property within the corporate limits. Violation of this
section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty,
see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Each day's violation of §
97.05 shall constitute a separate offense.
(`84 Code, § 8-2005) (Ord. passed 2-24-70; Am. Ord. 2016-O-14, passed 7-19-16;
Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
CHAPTER 98: FAMILY CARE HOMES
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Location
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAMILY CARE HOME. A home with support and supervisory personnel that
provides room and board, personal care and habilitation services in a family
environment for not more than six resident handicapped persons.
   HANDICAPPED PERSON. A person with a temporary or permanent physical,
emotional, or metal disability including but not limited to metal retardation,
cerebral palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments, emotional
disturbances and orthopedic impairments but not including mentally ill persons
who are dangerous to others as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)b.
(Ord. 2004-O-22, passed 10-26-04)
§ 98.02 LOCATION.
   No family care home shall be located within a one-half mile radius of an
existing family care home.
(Ord. 2004-O-22, passed 10-26-04)
CHAPTER 99: FALSE ALARM REGULATIONS
Section
   
99.01   Short title
   
99.02   Purpose
   
99.03   Definitions
   
99.04   Applicability
   
99.05   General regulations
   
99.06   Alarm responses
   
99.07   Exclusions
   
99.08   Prohibited acts
   
99.09   Enforcement of violations
   
99.10   Miscellaneous
§ 99.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as "The City of
Creedmoor False Alarm Regulations."
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations governing alarm
systems requiring response thereto by or through the City of Creedmoor Police
Department or the Creedmoor Volunteer Fire Department. The terms of this
chapter shall not prohibit alarm companies from providing service by private
source to other offices within the geographical boundaries of the City of
Creedmoor.
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.03 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following words, terms and phrases shall have
the meanings ascribed to them below, unless the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
   ALARM. The activation of an alarm system signal that produces either an
audible sound which can be heard from the interior or exterior of the building
causing the alarm system, or the emission of a signal to a direct monitoring
service, which in turn notifies the Communications Center that the alarm has
been activated.
   ALARM BUSINESS. The business by any individual, partnership, corporations or
other legal entity of servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or
installing any alarm system, or causing to be sold, leased, maintained,
serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved or installed any alarm system in
or on any building, structure or facility, and shall not include any other
activity of the business.
   ALARM INSTALLATION. Any alarm device or combination of devices installed for
one or more buildings.
   ALARM RESPONSE. The dispatch or response of fire or law enforcement
personnel as the result of an alarm.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any electronic or mechanical device which emits any signal
(electronic, visible, audible, silent, recorded or otherwise) which is
designed, intended or used to detect fire or an unauthorized entry into a
building, structure, or premises, to signal a fire or attempted robbery or hold
up, or to alert others of a fire or the commission of an unlawful act in or
around a building, structure or premises.
   ALARM USER. Any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship,
governmental or educational entity owning or leasing an alarm system, or on
whose premises an alarm system is maintained for the protection of the premises
and/or persons.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. Any type of device that automatically sends
signals over regular telephone lines, as opposed to dedicated alarm lines (see
definition of DEDICATED ALARM LINE).
   CITY. The City of Creedmoor, North Carolina.
   COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. Creedmoor Police Department dispatch and/or the
Granville County 911 Emergency Communications Center.
   COUNTY. Granville County, North Carolina, a political subdivision of the
State of North Carolina.
   DEDICATED ALARM LINE. A special leased telephone line circuit maintained for
the sole purpose of transmitting alarm signals.
   DIGITAL ALARM. An alarm system which automatically sends signals over
regular telephone lines connecting to a digital receiving console, as opposed
to a telephone handset.
   DIRECT CONNECTING ALARM. An alarm utilizing dedicated alarm lines to connect
to a remote receiving console.
   FALSE ALARM. An electrical signal communicated to the Communications Center
indicating that an unlawful entry or other crime is being committed or
attempted or indicating the detection of a fire, whether to signal a fire or to
alert others of a fire in or around a building, structure or premises when it
is subsequently determined, after response to the alarm, that no such unlawful
entry, crime or fire was either committed or in existence and that the alarm
was activated in error due to the subscriber's negligence or equipment
malfunction. Such alarm shall be considered a false alarm if it could have been
prevented by the ordinary care of a competent subscriber or alarm business
operator. An alarm transmitted during testing procedures approved in advance by
the Communications Center shall not be deemed a false alarm.
   LOCAL ALARM. An alarm or device that produces a signal not connecting in any
way to any alarm monitoring centers, such as store or home burglar alarms
actuating bell devices.
   OFFICER. Either a sworn law enforcement officer or a member of any county or
city fire department.
   TAPE DIALER ALARM. An alarm system which automatically sends a signal over
regular telephone lines and plays a pre-recorded message.
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.04 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all incorporated portions of
the City of Creedmoor.
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.05 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The alarm user shall be responsible for knowing the contents of this
chapter.
   (B)   Alarm systems may be connected directly to a private alarm control
center or may be a local alarm.
   (C)   Local alarms shall be of a type that sounds for no more than 15
minutes.
   (D)   Any alarm existing as of the effective date of this chapter shall also
be governed by the regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   Each local alarm user shall furnish to the Creedmoor Police Department
and/or the Granville County 911 Emergency Communications Center, as applicable,
the names and telephone numbers of at least three persons authorized and able
to deactivate the alarm system. Should this requirement represent an undue
burden upon the alarm user, an exception thereto may be requested from the
Creedmoor Police Chief, who shall have the authority to allow less than three
persons authorized and able to deactivate the alarm system, but any such
exception shall be writing and retained by the Police Chief.
   (F)   After the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
connect a local alarm without notifying the Creedmoor Police Department and/or
the Granville County 911 Emergency Communications Center, as applicable, of
names and telephone numbers of persons authorized and able to deactivate the
alarm system (in accordance with division (E) of this section). Any changes in
the names or telephone numbers of those persons authorized and able to
deactivate the alarm system must be communicated to the appropriate
Communications Center immediately.
   (G)   Burglar alarm systems and fire alarm systems installed within those
geographical areas covered by this chapter shall be equipped with an automatic
bell time cut-off module to prevent continuous alarm sounding when the user is
unavailable to manually silence the alarm. System or test devices which give a
delay of ten seconds or longer prior to alarm system activation in order to
warn the user of an open alarm circuit are highly recommended for all burglar
systems in order to prevent false alarms.
   (H)   Alarm systems installed after the effective date of this chapter (i.e.
June 15, 2015) will be required to have reset capabilities, and to reset within
15 minutes. An alarm system cutoff shall be installed to override all
malfunctioning alarms. Users whose alarm systems were installed prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall have one year from the effective date of
this chapter to convert their systems to the extent necessary for compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.06 ALARM RESPONSES.
   (A)   An alarm system may have up to three false alarms within a 12-month
period. Alarm responses in excess of three during the same 12-month period
shall incur a fine in accordance with the current City of Creedmoor Fee and
Rate Schedule.
   (B)   The alarm user or that user's representative shall reset an alarm
system when notified by a responder that the alarm has activated. When an alarm
sounds continuously for a period of 60 minutes from the time responders react
to the alarm, due to the failure of the alarm user or that user's
representative to reset the alarm, every subsequent 60-minute period or portion
thereof that the alarm continues to sound shall be deemed a separate alarm.
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.07 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of computing the number of alarm responses in §
99.06(A), a false alarm shall not include an alarm that is:
      (1)   Determined to have been activated by adverse weather conditions as
reported by the Granville County Emergency Operations Director, the National
Weather Service, or the investigating responding agency;
      (2)   Activated by an outside animal;
      (3)   Activated by an electrical power outage to the electric meter on
the building housing the activated alarm system, provided that the alarm user
shall provide proof of the electrical outage within five business days of the
alarm response;
      (4)   An alarm where there is physical evidence of a fire, unauthorized
entry, robbery, or other crime having been committed at the premises where the
alarm was activated; or
      (5)   A local alarm activated during alarm system testing procedures
shall not be considered an alarm for the purpose of computing alarm responses,
if the alarm user first notifies the Creedmoor Police Department and/or the
Granville County 911 Emergency Communications Center, as applicable, of the
alarm testing.
   (B)   Any determination by an alarm responder that alarm activation was not
one of the exclusions herein may be appealed to the City Manager within 72
hours. The decision of the City Manager shall be final.
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.08 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to activate an alarm for the
purpose of summoning either law enforcement or fire department assistance when
no fire, burglary, robbery, or other crime dangerous to life is being committed
or attempted on the premises or otherwise to cause an alarm response where
there is no valid basis for causing same.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm user to fail to pay the City of
Creedmoor for alarm response(s) in accordance with §
99.06(A) and (B).
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.09 ENFORCEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   All violations of this chapter, including failure to pay the fines
imposed herein within 30 days following notice that said fees are due, shall
subject the offender to a civil penalty in the nature of a debt.
   (B)   Such civil penalties may be recovered by the City of Creedmoor in a
civil action in the nature of a debt, pursuant to G.S. § 160A-175(c).
   (C)   Effective on the date of this chapter (i.e. June 15, 2015), all alarm
users shall begin with a number of zero responses for purposes of §
99.06(A).
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
§ 99.10 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   The alarm user, upon being notified that the alarm system has been
experiencing an excessive number of false alarms or has in some way become
defective, shall have the alarm system inspected and repaired by a qualified
individual or company so as to correct any malfunction, restore the system to
proper function, and shall thereafter notify the Creedmoor Police Department
and/or the Granville County 911 Emergency Communications Center, as applicable,
when the necessary repairs have been completed.
   (B)   The alarm user or the user's representative shall respond to an alarm
call when there is evidence of an illegal entry, fire, or some other alarm
indication and, when feasible, assist law enforcement personnel or Fire
Department personnel in the performance of their duties. Such assistance shall
be provided only upon request from responding law enforcement personnel or Fire
Department personnel.
(Ord. 2015-O-08, passed 6-15-15; Am. Ord. 2022-O-13, passed 12-6-22)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   PAWNBROKERS
   
111.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
   
112.   AMUSEMENTS
   
113.   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES
   
114.   RESERVED
   
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Restrictions on resale of property
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKERS. As set forth in G.S. § 66-387. This chapter shall be applicable
to all persons licensed by the city under G.S. Chapter 66, Article 45, Part 1.
(Ord. 87-O-12, passed 11-24-87)
§ 110.02 RESTRICTIONS ON RESALE OF PROPERTY.
   No pawnbroker operating within the city limits shall purchase for resale (as
opposed to taking in pawn) any personal property unless the individual shall
within 48 hours deliver to the Chief of Police of the city a list of property
purchased plainly identifying the property, indicating the name and address of
the individual from whom purchased and the price paid for; nor shall any
pawnbroker operating within the city allow any personal property purchased for
resale to be either sold or removed from pawnbroker’s premises within a period
of eight days from the time of the delivery of the information required
hereinabove to the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 87-O-12, passed 11-24-87)
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of these rules is a misdemeanor and is punishable by a fine
of up to $50 and imprisonment for not more than 30 days for each occurrence.
   (B)   Any conviction of a violation of these regulations will render the
individual convicted ineligible to operate as a pawnbroker within the city for
a period of 30 days.
(Ord. 87-O-12, passed 11-24-87)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Registration
   
111.03   Door-to-door activities prohibited
   
111.04   Mobile food vendors
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who transports goods from place to place and sells or
offers for sale the goods, or who, without traveling from place to place, sells
or offers for sale any goods from any vehicle or device; provided, that any
person who separates the acts of sale and delivery for the purpose of evading
the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER.
   SOLICITOR.  Any person who travels from place to place, taking or offering
to take orders for the sale of goods for future delivery or for personal
services to be performed in the future, whether or not samples are displayed or
money is collected in advance, and any person who uses or occupies any building
or premises for the sole purpose of taking or offering to take orders for the
sale of goods for future delivery or for personal services to be performed in
the future, whether or not samples are displayed or money is collected in
advance.
   TRANSIENT VENDOR. Any person who engages in a temporary business of selling
and delivering goods and who, for this purpose, uses or occupies any building
or premises; provided, that no person shall be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter merely by conducting a transient business in
association with any permanently established merchant.
(`84 Code, § 6-1011)
§ 111.02 REGISTRATION.
   Each and every person doing business in the city as a peddler, solicitor or
transient vendor shall file with the Clerk, on a form to be provided for the
purpose, a statement setting forth the following information:
   (A)   Name and address of individual filing the statement;
   (B)   Name and address of principal or employer if individual is an agent or
employee;
   (C)   Credentials showing relationship of agent or employee;
   (D)   Copy of photo identification and description of individual filing
statement including height, weight, sex, age, color and distinguishing
characteristics, if any;
   (E)   The goods to be sold or offered for sale, or the type of services to
be rendered;
   (F)   The period of time during which the business will be carried on in the
city;
   (G)   Description of automobile or other vehicle to be used in the business,
including the make, model, body style, color and license number; and
   (H)   Notarized letter of permission from property owner where vehicle or
device will be located.
(`84 Code, § 6-1012) (Am. Ord. 2014-O-05, passed 8-4-14)
§ 111.03 DOOR-TO-DOOR ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants
of the residences in the city shall make the determination of whether
solicitors shall be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
   (B)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four
inches in size, exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
"NO SOLICITORS INVITED"
   (C)   The letters shall be at least one-third-inch in height. For the
purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be provided by the Chief of Police to
persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (D)   The card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to any
solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
   (E)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 6-1013) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference: 
   Regulation of solicitations and itinerant merchants authorized, see G.S. §
160A-178
§ 111.04 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to regulate how mobile food vendors
sell food and or non-alcoholic beverages to the general public within the
corporate city limits.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOBILE FOOD TRUCK. A motorized vehicle or pushcart that is designed and
operated for the purpose of preparing and or selling food and or non-alcoholic
beverages to the general public on a recurring basis and is to be readily
moved.
      PUSHCART. Any non-motorized piece of equipment from which a vendor
prepares and or sells food and or non-alcoholic beverages to the general public
on a recurring basis and is to be readily moved.
      VENDOR. A person who hawks, peddles, sells or offers food for sale and
profit. Churches, clubs and other not-for-profit organizations are specifically
exempted.
   (C)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any mobile food vendor to
sell, or offer for sale, any food or beverage without first obtaining a
peddler's license pursuant to §
111.02 from the City Manager or his/her designee. This requirement shall be
waived for mobile food vendors directly associated with city approved events.
   (D)   Permit application. Prior to the issuance of a permit, an application
for peddler's license must be submitted and reviewed by the City Manager or
his/her designee. The application shall be accompanied by proof of insurance
and approval from the Granville County Health Department, proof of landowner
permission, and an annual application fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each mobile vendor. Each mobile food vendor shall also obtain an annual
privilege license prior to operating.
   (E)   Permit suspension and revocation. Any food truck vendor's permit may
be suspended or revoked for fraud or misrepresentation in the application for
the permit or for conduct of the business in such a manner as to create a
public nuisance or constitute a danger to the public health, safety or welfare
or which is contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Operation requirements. Food truck and pushcart vendors shall operate
under the following conditions:
      (1)   No food truck or pushcart vendors shall operate within three
hundred (300) feet of any school, religious institution or cemetery, except
during events of public interest per Article 15 of the Creedmoor Development
Ordinance;
      (2)   Hours of operation shall be between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. except for special events. The food truck must be removed after operating
hours or event and must be stored in a legal location;
      (3)   Must be approved and permitted by the Granville County Health
Department;
      (4)   Shall not be located within 100 feet from the main entrance of any
restaurant during business hours unless authorized by a restaurant to be
closer;
      (5)   Food trucks and pushcart vendors shall be parked on private
property with the property owners permission and shall not be parked within any
public street, right-of-way or sidewalk unless the street has been closed for a
special event;
      (6)   Food truck and pushcart vendors are responsible for the proper
disposal of waste and trash associated with the operation. City trash
receptacles are not to be used for this purpose. Vendors shall remove all waste
and trash from their location at the end of each day or as needed to maintain
the health and safety of the public. The vendor shall keep all areas within ten
(10) feet of the truck clean of grease, trash, paper, cups or cans associated
with the vending operation. No liquid waste or grease is to be disposed into
tree pits, storm drains or onto the sidewalks, streets or other public place.
Under no circumstances shall grease be released into or disposed of in the
city's sanitary sewer system;
      (7)   There shall be no audio amplifier or similar device to attract the
attention of the public;
      (8)   Advertising consisting of business name, logo and items available
for sale may be displayed on the food truck or pushcart. No other form of
advertising shall be permitted;
      (9)   The food truck or pushcart owner or his/her designee shall be
present at all times except in case of an emergency; and
      (10)   A privilege license must be obtained from the City of Creedmoor
Finance Department prior to operating a food truck.
   (G)   Location. Food trucks and or pushcarts may operate within the AG, MS,
MSP, CIV, C-56, C-15, and IND districts. Pushcarts operating in the MS District
shall not operate or sell food upon any sidewalk.
   (H)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided by G.S.
§ 14-4 and shall be fined two hundred dollars ($200.00) per day and shall be
further subject to the provisions of G.S. 160A-175.
(Ord. 2014-O-05, passed 8-4-14)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Poolrooms
   
112.01   Operating restrictions
   
112.02   Rules for operation
POOLROOMS
§ 112.01 OPERATING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No owner or operator of a poolroom, nor his or her employees, shall:
      (1)   Suffer or permit any gambling on the licensed premises at any time;
      (2)   Suffer or permit the licensed premises to become disorderly, or
permit any profane, obscene or indecent language thereon;
      (3)   Suffer or permit any alcoholic beverages, as defined in G.S. § 18B-
101, or narcotic drugs to be sold, kept or consumed on the licensed premises;
      (4)   Suffer or permit any person under the age of 16 years to enter or
remain on the premises, unless the person is accompanied by a parent or
guardian;
      (5)   Employ in the establishment any person who has been convicted
within the past two years of a felony offense; or
      (6)   Suffer or permit any keeley board, keno board or any other gambling
board or device to be attached to or placed upon any tables.
   (B)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 6-1001) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.02 RULES FOR OPERATION.
   The following rules shall be observed by all operators of poolrooms required
to be licensed by §
112.01 within the city:
   (A)   All establishments shall close at 1:00 a.m. each morning Monday
through Saturday, and no person other than the owner, operator or employees
shall be permitted on the premises from that hour until 7:00 a.m. the following
morning, provided that, when Daylight Savings Time is in effect all
establishments covered herein shall close at 2:00 a.m.
   (B)   No play on any table, alley or machine shall be allowed during the
times when the premises are required by this chapter to remain closed.
   (C)   All establishments shall be operated only on the ground floor of a
building and an unobstructed transparent plate glass window or windows shall be
located in those parts of the building facing any street so that a clear view
inside may be had from the street.
   (D)   No screens, curtains, blinds, partitions, or other obstructions shall
be placed between the entrance to the room where amusements or games are played
and the rear wall of the room. A clear view of the interior premises from the
entrance to the rear of the premises must be maintained at all times.
   (E)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 6-1002) (Ord. passed 4-27-65; Am. Ord. passed 1-25-66; Am. Ord.
2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: CABLE TELEVISION SERVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.001   Intent and purpose
   
113.002   Short title
   
113.003   Rate regulation
   
113.004   Rights reserved to grantor
   
113.005   Non-enforcement by city
   
113.006   Governing law and choice of forum
   
113.007   Publication of notices
   
113.008   System construction capabilities and schedule
   
113.009   Definitions
   
113.010   Institutional network; access channels
   
113.011   Rights of individuals protected
Franchise Requirements
   
113.025   Unlawful to operate without franchise
   
113.026   Franchises non-exclusive
   
113.027   Franchises competitively neutral and nondiscriminatory
   
113.028   Term of franchise
   
113.029   Federal, state, and city jurisdiction
   
113.030   Rights reserved to grantor
   
113.031   Franchise agreement
   
113.032   Initial franchise applications
   
113.033   Consideration of initial applications
   
113.034   Franchise renewal
   
113.035   Grant of additional franchise and competing service
   
113.036   Permits for non-franchised entities
   
113.037   Review for competition
   
113.038   Application and renewal fees
Design Provisions
   
113.055   System design
   
113.056   General system provisions
   
113.057   Drops to public buildings
   
113.058   Use of grantee facilities
   
113.059   Upgrade of system
   
113.060   Nondiscriminatory access to cable system
Technical Standards
   
113.075   General technical standards and customer service practices
   
113.076   Books and records available to the grantor
   
113.077   Reports required
   
113.078   Technical standards
   
113.079   Test and compliance procedure
   
113.080   Emergency requirements
   
113.081   Programming decisions
   
113.082   Parental control
   
113.083   Installations exceeding standard installation
   
113.084   Service area and line extension policy
   
113.085   City monitoring
   
113.086   Access to inside wiring
Customer Service Practices
   
113.105   Grantee’s duty to comply
   
113.106   In general
   
113.107   Cable system office hours and availability
   
113.108   Installations, outages, and service calls
   
113.109   Notifications to subscribers
   
113.110   Billing
   
113.111   Refunds
   
113.112   Credits
Construction Standards
   
113.125   Right-of-way construction
   
113.126   Compliance
   
113.127   Minimum interference
   
113.128   Repair of property
   
113.129   Erection of poles
   
113.130   Reservations of street rights
   
113.131   Underground installation
   
113.132   Conduit
   
113.133   Clearing poles and cables
   
113.134   Moving facilities
   
113.135   Work performed by others
   
113.136   Duty to grantee
General Administrative Procedure
   
113.155   Franchise fees
   
113.156   Security fund
   
113.157   Bonds, indemnification and insurance
   
113.158   Revocation procedure
   
113.159   Foreclosure, receivership and abandonment
   
113.160   Purchase of system
   
113.161   Sale or transfer
   
113.162   Procedure for violations
Noncompliance
   
113.175   Liquidated damages
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city, pursuant to applicable federal and state law, is authorized
to grant one or more non- exclusive franchises to construct, operate, maintain,
and reconstruct cable systems within the incorporated areas of the city.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Commissioners finds that cable service has become
an integral part of its citizens’ lives, and that evolving cable systems have
the potential to play an even more dramatic role in the future, providing great
benefits and advanced capabilities to the city.
      (2)   At the same time, the Board further finds that the public
convenience, safety, and general welfare can best be served by establishing
regulatory powers that are vested in the city or the persons as the city
designates.
   (C)   (1)   In order to ensure that the city and its residents receive
state-of-the-art cable services and capabilities as this technology further
evolves, all franchises granted pursuant to this chapter will be subject to
periodic review and modifications to keep current with changing law,
technology, and services.
      (2)   It is the intent of this chapter to help ensure that local cable
operators provide the best possible cable service to residents of the city, and
any franchises issued pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to include this
finding as an integral part thereof.
   (D)   (1)   Further, it is recognized that cable systems have the capacity
to provide entertainment and information services to the city’s residents, and
may have the capacity to provide a variety of broadband, interactive
communications services to institutions and individuals.
      (2)   For these purposes, the following goals underlie the regulations
contained herein:
         (a)   Cable television services should be made available to all of the
city’s residents at the lowest reasonable cost.
         (b)   The system should be capable of accommodating both the present
and reasonably foreseeable future state-of-the-art cable television needs of
the city.
         (c)   The systems authorized by this chapter shall be responsive to
the needs and interests of the local community, and shall provide the widest
possible diversity of information sources and services to the public.
         (d)   Each of the above-enumerated goals shall be sought to the
maximum extent, taking into account the costs and benefits to the residents of
the city.
   (E)   The Board further finds that ongoing industry consolidation could
result in less local accountability, and that, therefore, stringent customer
service standards, including liquidated damages provisions, may be the only
practical means of ensuring compliance and approximating the costs of franchise
agreement non-compliance to the city and its residents.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.002 SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as this chapter and it
shall become a part of the ordinances of the city.
   (B)   This chapter shall take effect and be in force from and after its
adoption for the grant of any new franchise agreement or renewal of any
franchise existing at the time of adoption.
   (C)   All ordinances or parts of the City of Creedmoor Code in conflict with
the provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.003 RATE REGULATION.
   (A)   The city reserves the right to regulate rates for basic cable service
and any other services offered over the cable system, to the extent permitted
by federal or state law.
   (B)   A grantee shall be subject to the rate regulation provisions provided
for herein, and those of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) at 47 CFR
76.901 et seq. (Subpart N).
   (C)   (1)   The city shall follow the rules relating to cable rate
regulation promulgated by the FCC at 47 CFR 76.901 et seq. (Subpart N).
      (2)   To the extent required by applicable federal or state law, a
grantee shall establish rates that are nondiscriminatory within the same
general class of subscribers and which must be applied fairly and uniformly to
all subscribers in the franchise area for all services.
   (D)   Nothing contained herein shall prohibit the grantee from offering:
      (1)   Discounts to commercial and multiple-family dwelling subscribers
billed on a bulk basis;
      (2)   Promotional discounts;
      (3)   Reduced installation rates for subscribers who have multiple
services;
      (4)   Discounts for senior citizens and/or low income residents; or
      (5)   Reduced rates to subscribers who receive non-cable services in
addition to cable services.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.004 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   (1)   Upon either the expiration or revocation of a franchise, a
grantor may permit and/or require a grantee to continue to operate the cable
system for an extended period of time not to exceed three months from the date
of expiration or revocation.
      (2)   A grantee shall continue to operate the system under the terms and
conditions of this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement and to
provide cable service and any and all other services which the grantee had been
providing.
   (B)   (1)   The grantor shall have the right to compel the continued
operation of the cable system whether by the grantee or a trustee or receiver
or by the grantor, and to ensure that the operation is consistent with public
interest as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The grantee may not remove equipment or documents necessary for
continued operation of the system.
   (C)   At all reasonable times, a grantee shall permit examination by the
city of the system, together with any appurtenant property of the grantee
situated within or without the city when necessary to ascertain the grantee’s
compliance with this chapter, the franchise agreement, and all applicable laws.
   (D)   The city shall have the right of intervention in any suit or
proceeding to which the grantee is a party relative to grantee’s operations in
the city, and the grantee shall not oppose the intervention by the city.
   (E)   Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, the grantee shall have
no recourse whatsoever against the city or its officials, boards, commissions,
agents, or employees for any loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out of any
provision or requirements of this chapter or the franchise agreement, or of
their enforcement.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.005 NON-ENFORCEMENT BY CITY.
   A grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or the franchise agreement by reason of any failure
of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.006 GOVERNING LAW AND CHOICE OF FORUM.
   Any dispute arising with respect to this chapter or a franchise agreement
granted pursuant to it shall be subject to review by the state and federal
courts having primary jurisdiction in the city.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.007 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   All public notices required to be published by the grantor under this
chapter or any franchise agreement shall be published in a manner consistent
with the public notice laws of the state.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.008 SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION CAPABILITIES AND SCHEDULE.
   (A)   (1)   The cable system shall generally conform to the system design
and channel capacity specifications set forth by the grantee in its application
for a franchise submitted to the city.
      (2)   At a minimum, the grantee shall construct a system with equivalent
technical capabilities to a hybrid fiber coax [HFC] 750 MHz cable system.
      (3)   The grantee is permitted to modify its design and implementation
plan, pursuant to the conditions provided herein, to accommodate technological
innovations and refinements, which enhance system reliability and capacity.
   (B)   (1)   The initial construction required under initial franchise
agreement shall be completed in compliance with a schedule specified therein.
      (2)   If the grantee shows, notwithstanding its due diligence, that it
has been unable to extend service to a specified area because the acts or
omissions of a third party (excluding the grantee’s subcontractors or agents)
or other factors have caused a delay in construction beyond that reasonably
expected during the course of construction, and the grantee proposes a
reasonable alternative deadline for extension of service to that area, the city
shall grant reasonable extensions of time to complete construction.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.009 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future tense, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The words
“shall” and “will” are mandatory and “may” is permissive. Words not defined
shall be given their common and ordinary meaning.
      ADDITIONAL SERVICE. Any cable service other than basic service provided
over the system.
      BASIC CABLE SERVICE.
         (a)   Any cable service tier that includes the lawful retransmission
of local television broadcast signals and any public, educational, and
governmental access programming required by this chapter or a franchise
agreement to be carried on the basic tier.
         (b)   BASIC CABLE SERVICE as defined herein shall be consistent with
47 USC 543(b)(7), and shall include any signal of any television broadcast
station that is provided by a grantee to any subscriber, except a signal which
is secondarily transmitted by a satellite carrier beyond the local service area
of the station.
         (c)   Additional signals may be added to the basic tier by the
grantee.
      BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of the City of Creedmoor, North
Carolina or its delegates.
      CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, P.L. No. 98-549,
(codified at 47 USC 521 through 611 as amended by the Cable Television Consumer
Protection and Competition Act of 1992, P.L. No. 102-385, and the
Telecommunications Act of 1996, P.L. No. 104-104 (1996) as may, from time to
time, be amended.
      CABLE INTERNET SERVICE. Any service offered by a grantee whereby persons
receive access to the Internet or high-speed data information services through
the cable system.
      CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE.
         (a)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
other programming service;
         (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the
selection or use of video programming or other programming service; and
         (c)   For the purposes of this chapter, cable internet service shall
be considered cable service unless determined otherwise by applicable state or
federal law.
      CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a set
of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and
control equipment that is designed to provide cable service to multiple
subscribers within the franchise area, but the term does not include:
         (a)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals
of one or more television broadcast stations;
         (b)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public
right-of-way; or
         (c)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of 47 USC 201 through 226, except that the facility
shall be considered a cable system to the extent the facility, whether on a
common carrier basis or otherwise, is used in the transmission of video
programming directly to subscribers.
      CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION. A contribution provided by a grantee as determined
in a franchise agreement that may at the city’s discretion be utilized for the
capital costs of the municipal access channel facilities, or to help defray the
costs of an I-Net.
      CAPITAL COSTS. Costs associated with the purchase of assets, products or
other resources that are designed to provide service for more than one year,
whether incurred during initial construction or throughout the life of the
system.
      CHANNEL.
         (a)   A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum that is
capable of carrying one standard video signal, in either analog or digital
form.
         (b)   Consistent with future changes in technology and/or applicable
law, the parties may mutually agree to a different definition in an individual
franchise agreement.
      CITY. The City of Creedmoor, North Carolina, as it is now, or may in the
future be, constituted.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. A person designated by the City Manager to represent
the city in all business with the grantee.
      COMMUNITY ACCESS CORPORATION or CAC. A non-profit access corporation
serving the city, or any other person designated by the grantor whose duties
shall include the financing, management, and programming of public access
channels, and whatever other duties with respect to the public access channels
that the grantor from time to time may delegate.
      COMPLAINT. Any written or electronic inquiry, allegation, or assertion,
made by a person regarding service.
      CONTROL.
         (a)   The holding of legal or financial control of or over the holder
of the franchise, regardless of whether the control is direct or indirect, or
is exercised or is permitted to be exercised directly or indirectly through
other persons, holdings or entities.
         (b)   CONTROL shall always be deemed to rest in the hands of any
person that has the right or authority to establish or change any policy or
practice of the holder of the franchise, whether the control may be exercised
directly, or indirectly through other persons.
      CONVERTER. An electronic device that converts signals to a frequency not
susceptible to interference within the television receiver of a subscriber and,
through the use of an appropriate channel selector, permits a subscriber to
view all authorized subscriber signals delivered at designated converter dial
locations.
      DIRECT INCREMENTAL COSTS. The costs actually incurred by grantee in
meeting an obligation under its franchise which grantee would not otherwise
have incurred in order to either operate and conduct the business of its cable
system or meet another obligation of the franchise.
      DOWNSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from or provided by a system to a
subscriber terminal or other terminal including video, audio, or digital
signals or any other type of data or information for either programs or other
uses such as security alert services, and the like.
      DROP. The cable or cables that connect users of the system to the
distribution system in order to receive service.
      EDUCATIONAL ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced non-commercial educational access programming use.
      EFFECTIVE DATE. The date a franchise becomes effective in accordance with
the franchise and the rules and procedures of the city.
      FAIR MARKET VALUE. The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing
seller for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the
industry at the time.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission or its designated
representative.
      FRANCHISE.
         (a)   The rights and obligations extended by the city pursuant to an
initial authorization or a renewal thereof, to a person to own, lease,
construct, maintain, or operate a cable system in the right- of-way within the
franchise area for the purpose of providing cable services.
         (b)   Any such authorization, in whatever form granted, shall not mean
or include:
            1.   Any other permit or authorization required for the privilege
of transacting and carrying on a business within the city required by the
ordinances and laws of the city, including the provision of telecommunications
services; or
            2.   Any generally applicable nondiscriminatory permit, agreement,
or authorization required in connection with operations in the right-of-way
including, without limitation, permits and agreements for placing devices on or
in poles, conduits, or other structures, whether owned by the city or a private
entity, or for excavating or performing other work in or along the right-of-
way.
      FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The document which grants a franchise pursuant to
this chapter.
      FRANCHISE AREA.
         (a)   The geographic area for which a franchise is granted under the
authority of this chapter.
         (b)   If not otherwise specifically stated in the franchise agreement,
the FRANCHISE AREA shall be the entire geographic area within the city as it is
now, or may in the future be, constituted.
      FRANCHISE FEE.
         (a)   Includes any tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by the
city or other governmental entity on a grantee or cable subscriber or both
solely because of their status as such.
         (b)   The term FRANCHISE FEE does not include:
            1.   Any tax, fee, or assessment of general applicability,
including any tax, fee, or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable
operators or their services but not including a tax, fee, or assessment that is
unduly discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers;
            2.   Capital costs that are required by a franchise agreement to be
incurred by a grantee for public access channels equipment and facilities;
            3.   Requirements or charges incidental to the award or enforcement
of a franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of
credit, insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or
            4.   Any fee imposed under Title 17 of the United States Code.
      GOVERNMENT ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced non-commercial governmental access programming use.
      GRANTEE. A person who is granted a franchise or that person’s lawful
successors, transferees, or assignees.
      GRANTOR. The city.
      GROSS REVENUES.
         (a)   1.   Any and all revenue, whether received in the form of cash,
credits, barter, trade, property or consideration of any kind or nature,
arising from, attributable to, or in any way derived by the grantee from the
operation of a grantee’s system to provide cable service, whether the revenue
is received by the grantee, its affiliates, or any person in which the grantee
has a financial interest, or by any other person who operates the system,
directly or indirectly.
            2.   This definition is intended to reach as broadly as possible to
encompass all revenue.
         (b)   1.   GROSS REVENUE includes, by way of illustration and not
limitation:
               a.   Amounts charged for basic service;
               b.   Optional premium, per-channel, per-program services;
               c.   Cable programming services;
               d.   Audio services;
               e.   Launch fees;
               f.   Channel guide subscriptions;
               g.   Installation, disconnection, reconnection, and changes in
service;
               h.   Equipment sales or rentals;
               i.   Leased channel fees;
               j.   Late fees and administrative charges of any type;
               k.   Consideration received from programmers;
               l.   Advertising revenue; and
               m.   Revenue from the sale of subscriber names and addresses.
            2.   To the extent that the grantee receives revenue from cable
services provided to a subscriber for a fixed price that also includes non-
cable services, such as those services are “bundled”, the grantee shall
allocate an appropriate portion of those revenues for inclusion in GROSS
REVENUES.
            3.   If the fixed price of the bundled services is lower than the
aggregate of the prices of those services if purchased individually, then the
appropriate amount of the revenue to be allocated to each service shall be
proportional to the individual price of that service when compared to the
aggregate of the individual prices of those services when unbundled.
         (c)   GROSS REVENUES shall not include:
            1.   Bad debt except to the extent that bad debt is recovered;
            2.   The revenue of any person including, without limitation, a
supplier of programming to the grantee to the extent that the revenue is also
included in GROSS REVENUE of the grantee;
            3.   Pass-through payments received by the grantee from third-party
programmers to purchase services from persons other than the grantee, which
services benefit only the third-party programmers and for which the grantee
neither received nor provides any consideration; and
            4.   Any taxes on services furnished by the grantee which are
imposed directly on any subscriber by the state, the city or other governmental
unit and which are collected by the grantee on behalf of the governmental unit.
A franchise fee is not such a tax.
         (d)   To the extent the scope of GROSS REVENUES is limited by federal
law or judicial action, the definitions herein shall be so amended.
      HEADEND. The electronic control center of the system including components
that amplify, filter, and convert incoming broadcast and other television and
electronic signals for distribution over the cable system.
      INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK or I-NET.
         (a)   Capacity, fibers or both, from both within the primary cable
network and/or separately constructed networks that are dedicated to municipal
users or other governmental and educational users as determined by the city for
two-way, broadband, non-commercial, non-competitive, not for profit
communications.
         (b)   The I-NET includes all equipment and maintenance of equipment
required to make the capacity available including but not limited to fiber,
cable modems, coaxial cable, and all switching, routing, transmitting and
receiving equipment necessary for the use of the I-Net as determined in the
individual franchise agreement.
      INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK SERVICES. The provision of an I-Net by a grantee to
municipal users and other governmental and educational users as determined by
the city, pursuant to the terms of a franchise agreement for non-commercial,
non-competitive, not for profit applications including but not limited to:
         (a)   Two-way dedicated voice, data, video, Internet and telephony
channels connecting and interconnecting user facilities; computerized traffic
control systems;
         (b)   GIS systems; and
         (c)   The interconnection of facilities serving police, fire and other
public safety systems.
      LOCKOUT DEVICE. A mechanical or electrical accessory to a subscriber’s
terminal that inhibits the video or audio portions of a certain program or
certain channel(s) provided by way of a cable system.
      NON-COMMERCIAL. Channels or programming that are operated on a not for
profit basis.
      NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS.
         (a)   Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
community are open to serve customers.
         (b)   In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS must include some evening
hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend hours.
      NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS.
         (a)   Those service conditions which are within the control of the
franchisee.
         (b)   Those conditions which are not within the control of the
franchisee include, but are not limited to: natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and severe or unusual
weather conditions.
         (c)   Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of the
franchisee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
      OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE. Information that a grantee makes available to
all subscribers generally.
      PERSON. Any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, individual,
organization, company, governmental entity or any natural person.
      PUBLIC ACCESS CHANNELS. Channels specially designated for locally
produced non- commercial public access programming use.
      PUBLIC BUILDING. A building, or any portion thereof, owned, leased, or
otherwise occupied, by the city.
      REASONABLE NOTICE.
         (a)   Written notice addressed to the city or grantee at the location
as the parties have designated in the franchise agreement as the address to
which notice shall be transmitted to it, which notice shall be sent by
certified mail and postmarked not less than seven business days prior to that
day in which the party giving the notice shall commence any action which
requires the giving of notice.
         (b)   In computing the seven days, holidays recognized by the city
shall be excluded.
      RESIDENT. Any person residing in the city.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Each of the following which have been, or are hereafter,
dedicated to the public and maintained by any public authority or by others and
located within the city, including without limitation, the surface and space
within, above and below any real property in which the city has an interest in
law or equity, whether held in fee, or other estate or interest, or as a
trustee for the public, including, but not limited to, any public street,
boulevard, road, highway, freeway, lane, alley, court, sidewalk, parkway,
swale, river, tunnel, viaduct, bridge, park, or any other place, area,
easements, RIGHTS-OF-WAY and similar public property and areas, or real
property owned by or under the control of the city.
      SCHOOL. Any state-accredited public or non-profit educational institution
including primary and secondary schools, both public and private.
      SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
      STANDARD INSTALLATION. Any service drop not exceeding 150 feet from a
single point or pedestal attachment to the subscriber’s residence.
      STATE-OF THE-ART. The addition of new services and associated equipment
as they are developed, available and when economically feasible and marketable
to subscribers as specifically required under the terms of a franchise
agreement.
      SUBSCRIBER. Any person who or which elects to subscribe for any purpose
to cable service provided by a grantee by means of, or in connection with, the
cable system, and whose premises or facilities are physically wired and
lawfully activated to receive cable service from the grantee’s cable system.
      SYSTEM. A grantee’s cable system operated pursuant to a franchise
agreement within the franchise area.
      TRAINED REPRESENTATIVE. Employees of the grantee who have the authority
and capability while speaking with a subscriber to, among other things, answer
billing questions, adjust bills, and schedule service and installation calls.
      UPSTREAM SIGNAL. A signal originating from a subscriber’s terminal to the
headend of the system including video, audio, or digital signals or any other
type of data or information for either programs or other uses such as security
alert services, and the like.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.010 INSTITUTIONAL NETWORK; ACCESS CHANNELS.
   (A)   (1)   Every grantee shall, to the extent required by the franchise
agreement, provide institutional networks as a condition of an initial grant or
renewal, or transfer of a franchise.
      (2)   To the extent that a grantee is obligated to provide the support
pursuant to its franchise agreement, the obligation will be implemented in a
competitively neutral manner, on a per subscriber basis with respect to any
other franchises granted after the adoption of this chapter.
      (3)   Costs associated with construction and operation of an I-Net shall
not be a franchise fee, unless otherwise specified in the franchise agreement.
   (B)   (1)   Every grantee shall provide a channel or channels, bandwidth
capacity, service, and funding for separate public, educational, and government
(“PEG”) access channels, as specified in its franchise agreement.
      (2)   All the PEG access channels shall be available to all subscribers
as part of basic cable service.
   (C)   (1)   Oversight and administration of the PEG access channels shall be
set forth in the franchise agreement.
      (2)   The city may designate a community access corporation or similar
entity to administer one or more of the PEG access channels.
(Ord. passed, 8-27-02)
§ 113.011 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS PROTECTED.
   (A)   (1)   No grantee shall deny service, deny access, or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, programmers, or general citizens on the basis
of race, color, religion, national origin, sex, disability, or age.
      (2)   Every grantee shall strictly adhere to the equal employment
opportunity requirements of state and federal law.
      (3)   Each grantee shall comply at all times with all other applicable
federal, state, and local laws, and all executive and administrative orders
relating to nondiscrimination.
   (B)   Grantees shall at all times comply with the federal subscriber privacy
requirements codified at 47 USC 551.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
FRANCHISE REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.025 UNLAWFUL TO OPERATE WITHOUT FRANCHISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, operate or maintain a
cable system or to provide cable service in the city without a franchise.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.026 FRANCHISES NON-EXCLUSIVE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be non-exclusive.
   (B)   The grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time,
additional franchises for a cable system or any component thereof, to any other
person including itself, as it deems appropriate, subject to applicable federal
and state law.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.027 FRANCHISES COMPETITIVELY NEUTRAL AND NONDISCRIMINATORY.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall grant franchises on terms that are competitively
neutral and nondiscriminatory and shall include similar terms pertaining to:
         (a)   Term;
         (b)   Franchise fees;
         (c)   Public, educational, and governmental (“PEG”) access channels;
and
         (d)   PEG access capital and operating support.
      (2)   Any franchise granted, when evaluated as a whole, shall not be more
favorable or less burdensome than any other franchise granted under this
chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The city will notify existing grantees in writing at least 30
days in advance, with a copy of a proposed additional franchise, of its intent
to grant an additional franchise for cable services.
      (2)   Within ten days after receipt, existing grantees may give written
notice to the city that the proposed additional franchise is inconsistent with
division (A) above.
      (3)   The city shall, prior to approving the additional franchise, notify
existing grantees of the city’s determination related to the notice under
division (B)(2) of this section.
      (4)   If the city determines that the terms of an additional franchise
are more favorable or less burdensome than those imposed upon the grantees,
then:
         (a)   Except for PEG capital and operating grant requirements:
            1.   The city may make modifications as it deems necessary to
ensure that the terms of the additional franchise are no more favorable or less
burdensome than those imposed upon existing grantees; or
            2.   The city may modify the terms and requirements of existing
franchises as mutually agreed to by existing grantees, and if the existing
grantees do not reasonably so agree the city shall be deemed to have fulfilled
its obligations under division (A) above.
         (b)   1.   The city may adjust the PEG capital and operating grant
requirements to ensure the total dollars contributed by a new grantee are the
same as required of existing grantees.
            2.   In the event existing grantees have paid the city amounts in
excess of the amounts required of the new grantee, the city will refund the
difference to existing grantees.
      (5)   The city shall provide notice to existing grantees of the date,
time, and place of its proceedings relating to the approval of the proposed
franchise.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.028 TERM OF FRANCHISE.
   A franchise agreement shall establish the term of each individual franchise.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.029 FEDERAL, STATE, AND CITY JURISDICTION.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall exercise appropriate regulatory authority under
the provisions of this chapter, the Cable Act, and all applicable laws.
      (2)   This authority shall be vested in the City Board of Commissioners
and administered through the City Manager or his or her designee in order to
provide day-to-day administration and enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter and any franchise granted hereunder, and to carry out the city’s
responsibilities with regard to cable service.
   (B)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with all
applicable federal and state laws.
   (C)   In the event that the federal or state government discontinues
preemption in any area of cable communications over which it currently
exercises jurisdiction in such manner as to expand rather than
limit municipal regulatory authority, the grantor may, if it so elects, adopt
rules and regulations in these areas to the extent permitted by law, provided
the same do not materially alter the rights and obligations of a grantee under
any existing franchise.
   (D)   A grantee’s rights are subject to the police powers of the city to
adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety, and welfare of
the public. A grantee shall comply with all applicable general laws and
ordinances enacted by the city pursuant to that power.
   (E)   (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all franchises
granted or renewed after the effective date of this chapter.
      (2)   This chapter shall also apply to all existing franchises, to the
extent not inconsistent with the terms of any franchise or applicable law.
      (3)   In the event of any conflict between the terms and conditions of a
franchise agreement and the provisions of this chapter, and other generally
applicable regulatory ordinances of the city, the specific terms of the
franchise agreement shall control.
      (4)   A franchise agreement, including all of a grantee’s particular
rights, powers, protections, privileges, immunities and obligations associated
therewith as the same exist on the date hereof, shall constitute a legally
binding contract between the city and the grantee, and as such, cannot be
amended, modified or changed by the city without the consent of the grantee in
any manner whatsoever, whether by ordinance, rule, regulation or otherwise, to
impose on the grantee more stringent or burdensome requirements or conditions;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall preclude the city from
the proper exercise of its police powers, or its powers of eminent domain.
   (F)   In the event of a change in state or federal law which by its terms
would require the city to amend this chapter, the parties shall modify the
existing franchise in a mutually agreed upon manner.
   (G)   The grantee shall not be relieved of its obligation to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement by reason of any
failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.030 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by this
chapter or a franchise agreement, the grantor reserves to itself every right
and power that is required to be reserved by a provision of any other ordinance
or under any other franchise.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.031 FRANCHISE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Every grantee shall agree to the terms and provisions of a franchise
agreement as negotiated between the grantee and the grantor.
   (B)   In addition to those matters required elsewhere in this chapter to be
included in the franchise agreement, each franchise agreement must contain the
following express representations by each grantee:
      (1)   The grantee has examined all of the provisions of this chapter and
accepts and agrees to all of the provisions of this chapter, as it exists as of
the effective date of the grantee’s franchise agreement, except as set forth in
§
113.029(D) hereof and any supplementary specifications as to construction,
operation, or maintenance of the system which the city may include in the
franchise agreement, unless otherwise agreed in the applicable franchise
agreement.
      (2)   Grantee recognizes, unless otherwise agreed in the applicable
franchise agreement, the right of the city to adopt the additional regulations
of general applicability as it shall find necessary in the exercise of its
police power.
   (C)   Every franchise agreement shall contain such further conditions or
provisions as may be negotiated between the city and a grantee, except that no
conditions or provisions shall be such as to conflict with any provisions of
state or federal law. In case of any conflict or of any ambiguity between any
terms or provisions of a franchise agreement and this chapter, the provisions
of the franchise agreement shall control.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.032 INITIAL FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring an initial franchise for a cable system shall file
an application with the city.
   (B)   An application for an initial franchise for a cable television system
shall contain, where applicable:
      (1)   A statement as to the proposed franchise area;
      (2)   Resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical, and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field;
      (3)   List of the partners, general and limited, of the applicant, if a
partnership, or a list of the principals of the applicant, if a limited
liability company, or the percentage of stock owned or controlled by
shareholders holding 10% or greater, if a corporation;
      (4)   List of officers, directors, and managing employees of applicant,
together with a description of the background of each such person;
      (5)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or in control of the applicant, in whole or in
part, or owned or controlled in whole or in part by the applicant;
      (6)   A current financial statement of applicant verified by a CPA audit
or otherwise certified to be true, complete, and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the city;
      (7)   Proposed preliminary construction and cable service schedule; and
      (8)   Any additional information that the city may require for the
administration of the franchise.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.033 CONSIDERATION OF INITIAL APPLICATIONS.
   Upon receipt of any application and application fee for an initial
franchise, the City Administrator shall prepare a report and make his or her
recommendations respecting the application to the Board.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.034 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable law
including, but not limited to, the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as
amended.
   (B)   A grantor and a grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal
negotiations at any time during the term of the franchise.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.035 GRANT OF ADDITIONAL FRANCHISE AND COMPETING SERVICE.
   (A)   Competing or overlapping franchises may have an adverse impact on the
public rights-of-way and on the quality and availability of services to the
public.
   (B)   In considering whether to grant one or more additional franchises, the
city shall specifically consider, and address in a written report or in
provisions of the franchise agreement, the following issues:
      (1)   The positive and/or negative impact of an additional franchise on
the community;
      (2)   The ability and willingness of the specific applicant in question
to provide cable services to the franchise area;
      (3)   The amount of time it will take the applicant to complete
construction of the proposed system and activate service in the franchise area;
and, whether the applicant can complete construction and activation of its
system in a timely manner;
      (4)   (a)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its
guaranteed commitment to make the necessary investment to erect, maintain, and
operate the proposed cable system for the duration of the franchise term; and
         (b)   In order to ensure that any prospective grantee does have the
requisite current financial capabilities, the city may request equity and debt
financing commitment letters, current audited financial statements, bonds,
letters of credit, or other documentation to demonstrate to the city’s
satisfaction that the requisite funds to construct and operate the proposed
system are available.
      (5)   The quality and technical reliability of the proposed system, based
upon the applicant’s plan of construction and the method of distribution of
signals, and the applicant’s technical qualifications to construct and operate
the system;
      (6)   The experience of the applicant in the erection, maintenance, and
operation of a cable system;
      (7)   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate one or more
additional cable systems and the potential disruption of those public rights-
of-way and private property that may occur if one or more additional franchises
are granted;
      (8)   The likelihood and ability of the applicant to continue to provide
competing cable service to subscribers within the franchise area for the
duration of the franchise;
      (9)   Other information as the city may deem appropriate to be considered
prior to granting any competing or overlapping franchise; and
      (10)   The purpose of this section is to ensure that any competition
which may occur among grantees will be on terms which when taken as a whole are
non-discriminatory according to federal law.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.036 PERMITS FOR NON-FRANCHISED ENTITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The city may issue a license, easement, or other permit to a
person other than the grantee to permit that person to traverse any portion of
the grantee’s franchise area within the city in order to provide service
outside, but not within the city.
      (2)   The license or easement, absent a grant of a franchise in
accordance with this chapter, shall not authorize nor permit the person to
provide cable service to any subscriber within the city nor render any other
service within the city.
   (B)   The granting of the license, easement or permit shall be conditioned
upon the payment of fee for occupancy of the public right-of-way to the extent
permitted by applicable law.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.037 REVIEW FOR COMPETITION.
   (A)   The city recognizes that the cable television and telecommunications
industries are in a period of convergence, that the technologies and services
provided by these industries are rapidly changing, and that the
Telecommunications Act of 1996 promoted and encouraged competition between and
among these formally discrete industries.
   (B)   At this time it is premature to know fully the extent to which there
will be changes in law, technology or services that may impact entities that
have been or may be granted franchises or licenses to use the city’s rights-of-
way.
   (C)   (1)   It is the desire of the city to be a communications-friendly
city that encourages the development of competitive advanced communications
capabilities for the benefit of all its citizens.
      (2)   For this reason the regulatory ordinances and franchises of the
city should not impede or restrict the fair opportunity to compete, but rather
are intended to provide uniform and consistent requirements for all similarly
situated providers.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.038 APPLICATION AND RENEWAL FEES.
   (A)   An application fee shall not be deemed to be “franchise fees” within
the meaning of Section 622 of the Cable Act (47 USC 542), and the payments
shall not be deemed to be “payments in kind” or any involuntary payments
chargeable against the compensation to be paid to the city by the grantee, or
part of the compensation to be paid to the city by the grantee pursuant to this
chapter or a franchise agreement.
   (B)   (1)   All applicants for an initial franchise grant shall submit an
application fee of $2,500 to compensate the city for its costs in reviewing,
preparing and awarding a franchise, including the costs of outside consultants.
      (2)   Upon the grant of a franchise the city may request the payment of
an additional fee to the extent that the reasonable costs of the franchise
review and negotiation process exceed the initial application fee amount.
      (3)   Consistent with the Cable Act, all the fees shall not constitute or
be credited towards a grantee’s franchise fee obligations.
      (4)   Reasonable costs include staff time, professional fees, and
administrative costs as determined by the city to be necessary.
   (C)   (1)   The city reserves the right, unless prohibited by applicable
law, to require a grantee to pay the reasonable costs of the franchise renewal
and negotiation process.
      (2)   Reasonable costs include staff time, professional fees, and
administrative costs determined by the city to be necessary.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
DESIGN PROVISIONS
§ 113.055 SYSTEM DESIGN.
   (A)   (1)   Every grantee shall offer service that meets the current and
future needs of the city, taking into account the costs of meeting those needs.
      (2)   The franchise agreement shall incorporate a description of the
grantee’s proposal including the general design and capabilities of the system
to identify for the city how the system will meet the current and future cable
service needs of the city.
   (B)   The franchise agreement shall include provisions to ensure cable
service and cable system compatibility with changes in law, technology, and
programming and services to maintain a state-of-the-art system throughout the
franchise term.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.056 GENERAL SYSTEM PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Every system shall pass by every single-family dwelling unit and
multiple-family dwelling unit within the franchise area in accordance with line
extension policies set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Service shall be provided to subscribers in accordance with the
schedules and line extension policies.
   (C)   Unless specified otherwise, service shall also be extended to
commercial buildings on a consistent basis with the residential line extension
policies.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.057 DROPS TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   Every grantee shall provide installation of at least one cable
drop, and provide monthly basic cable service, without charge, to public
buildings in accordance with the line extension policies of this chapter, or as
otherwise specified in the applicable franchise agreement.
      (2)   Schools shall also receive one cable drop and basic cable service
at no charge.
      (3)   Following the city’s designation of additional public buildings(s)
to receive cable service, and upon the city’s request, a grantee shall complete
construction of the drop and outlet within 30 days.
   (B)   All the cable service outlets shall not be utilized for commercial
purposes.
   (C)   In instances where the drop to the public building exceeds 150 feet,
the grantee may charge for the actual and reasonable cost of its labor and
materials.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.058 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to install and maintain city equipment
upon the poles and conduit owned by the grantee, at the actual cost of the
space and on terms mutually agreeable to the city and the grantee.
   (B)   Installed city equipment shall not unreasonably interfere with the
operation of the cable system.
   (C)   The city shall relinquish its use of the poles and conduit upon 90
days’ notice from the grantee that the city’s use interferes with the grantee’s
actual or anticipated use of same.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.059 UPGRADE OF SYSTEM.
   Every grantee shall upgrade its system, herein referred to as the “system
upgrade”, if required, as set forth in its respective franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.060 NONDISCRIMINATORY ACCESS TO CABLE SYSTEM.
   (A)   A grantee may be required to allow nondiscriminatory access to its
cable system if such shall be required by federal law.
   (B)   Prior to the enactment of any such requirement, a grantee shall be
provided with reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard, including the
right to present evidence with respect to the need for such a requirement.
   (C)   A grantee reserves, and has not waived, any right it may have, or may
later be determined to have, to challenge the city’s implementation of an open
access requirement.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
TECHNICAL STANDARDS
§ 113.075 GENERAL TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND CUSTOMER SERVICE PRACTICES.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter incorporates technical standards and establishes
customer service practices with which a grantee must comply.
      (2)   In addition, a grantee shall comply with any additional or stricter
requirements established by FCC regulations, or other federal regulation that
may be adopted or amended from time to time.
   (B)   A grantee shall maintain equipment and keep records as are required to
enable the grantor to determine whether the grantee is in compliance with all
standards required by these regulations and other applicable laws.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.076 BOOKS AND RECORDS AVAILABLE TO THE GRANTOR.
   (A)   (1)   The grantee shall maintain an office within the city.
      (2)   The city shall have the right, upon reasonable request, to inspect
and copy or transcribe at any time during normal business hours, all books,
records, maps, plans, financial records, service complaint logs, performance
test results and other like materials of the grantee kept or maintained by the
grantee or under its control concerning the operations, finances, affairs,
transactions or property of the grantee when necessary to ascertain the
grantee’s compliance with this chapter or the franchise agreement.
      (3)   Access to the aforementioned records shall not be denied by the
grantee on the basis that the records contained “proprietary” information.
   (B)   If any of the maps or records are not kept in the city, or upon
reasonable request made available in the city, and if the city shall determine
that an examination of the records is necessary or appropriate, all reasonable
expenses necessarily incurred in making the examination shall be paid by the
grantee.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.077 REPORTS REQUIRED.
   The grantee shall file with the city, upon reasonable request, unless
otherwise noted:
   (A)   Regulatory communications. All reports required by the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) including, but not limited to annual proof of
performance tests and results, Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) reports, and
all petitions, applications and communications of all types submitted by
grantee to the FCC, the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), or any other
federal or state regulatory commission or agency, having jurisdiction over any
matter affecting the operation of the grantee’s system.
   (B)   Facilities report. An annual report setting forth the physical miles
of plant construction and plant in operation at the end of the fiscal year will
be made available at the local office of the grantee for review by the city.
   (C)   Rebuild/upgrade/construction reports. The reports shall be sent to the
city 30 days after the initial franchise agreement is awarded and monthly
thereafter until construction is completed as specified in this chapter or the
franchise agreement.
   (D)   Proof of performance tests. Proof of performance test results
performed as required by the FCC shall be supplied to the city.
   (E)   Test required by city. Tests required by city as specified in this
chapter shall be submitted within 30 days of notification.
   (F)   Grantee rules. The grantee’s schedule of charges, regular subscriber
service policy regarding the processing of subscriber complaints, delinquent
subscriber disconnect and reconnect procedures and any other terms and
conditions adopted as the grantee’s policy in connection with its subscribers.
All the charges and policies shall be in accordance with applicable state and
federal laws, rules or regulations.
   (G)   Proof of bonds and insurance. The grantee shall submit to the city the
required performance bond, or a certified copy thereof, and insurance
certificates as required under the terms and conditions described in this
chapter.
   (H)   Financial and ownership reports. The following financial reports for
the franchise area shall be submitted to the city, upon reasonable notice and
as required by the city:
      (1)   A statement verifying the amount of gross annual revenues derived
from the franchise, certified by the vice president for finance or a duly
authorized officer or manager of the grantee; and
      (2)   An annual list of officers and members of the board of directors of
the grantee and of grantee’s parent corporation, if applicable.
   (I)   Additional reports. The grantee shall prepare and furnish to the city
at the times and in the form prescribed, the additional reports with respect to
its operation, affairs, transactions or property, as may be reasonably
necessary and appropriate to ascertain the grantee’s compliance with this
chapter or the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.078 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The technical standards used in the operation of a system shall
comply, at a minimum, with the technical standards promulgated by the FCC
relating to cable systems pursuant to the FCC’s rules and regulations found in
Title 47, §§ 76.601 to 76.617, as may be amended or modified from time to time,
which regulations are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   The results of any tests required by the FCC, or a franchise agreement
shall be made available to the city within 30 days of written request.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.079 TEST AND COMPLIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Tests for a system.
      (1)   Tests for a system shall be performed periodically in a manner so
as to conform to FCC specifications.
      (2)   The city shall notify the grantee of its desire to witness the
tests for a period of 90 days beyond the date of request.
      (3)   The grantee shall notify the city at least three business days
prior to conducting the tests.
      (4)   Representatives of the city may witness the tests and written test
reports shall be made available to the city upon request.
      (5)   If any test locations fail to meet the specifications, the grantee
shall be required to indicate what corrective measures have been or will be
taken.
      (6)   The grantee shall have the site re-tested on a timely basis as
needed.
   (B)   Complaints.
      (1)   Whenever there have been similar complaints made or when there
exists other evidence, which, in the reasonable judgment of the city, casts
doubt on the reliability or quality of the grantee’s system, the city shall
have the right and authority to compel the grantee to test, analyze, and report
on the performance of its system.
      (2)   The city may require additional tests, full or partial repeat
tests, different test procedures, or tests involving a specific subscriber’s
terminal.
      (3)   Reports on the tests shall be delivered to the city no later than
30 days after the city formally requests the tests and shall include the
following information:
         (a)   The nature of the complaints which precipitated the special
tests;
         (b)   What system component was tested;
         (c)   The equipment used, and procedures employed in the testing;
         (d)   The results of the tests; and
         (e)   Methods by which the complaints were resolved.
      (4)   The tests and analyses shall be supervised by an engineer or other
trained technical specialist who shall sign all records of the special tests
and forward same to the city with a report interpreting the results of the
tests and recommending what actions should be taken by the city.
      (5)   All the tests conducted by the grantee shall be at the expense of
the grantee.
   (C)   Consultants.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to employ or contract with qualified
consultants and attorneys if necessary or desirable, to assist in the
administration of this, or any other section of this chapter or the franchise
agreement.
      (2)   If an independent qualified consultant makes a finding that the
grantee’s test results differ by more than 10% from the FCC technical standard,
the grantee shall reimburse the city for its reasonable costs associated with
the testing.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.080 EMERGENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   Each grantee must provide emergency alert override capabilities in a manner
consistent with the FCC’s emergency alert system (“EAS”) rules and consistent
with any state and/or regional emergency alert system plans adopted in response
to the FCC’s EAS rules that are applicable to the franchise area.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.081 PROGRAMMING DECISIONS.
   (A)   Each grantee shall provide programming from each of the broad
programming categories identified in its franchise agreement.
   (B)   All programming decisions remain within the sole discretion of each
grantee provided that each grantee complies with federal law regarding notice
to the grantor and subscribers prior to any channel additions, deletions, or
realignments, and further subject to the grantee’s signal carriage obligations
pursuant to 47 USC 531 through 536, as may be amended and subject to the city’s
rights pursuant to 47 USC 545, as may be amended.
   (C)   The grantee shall use its good faith efforts to ensure diversity of
programming.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.082 PARENTAL CONTROL.
   (A)   Every grantee shall make available to any subscriber upon request a
“lockout” device for blocking both video and audio portions of any channel(s)
of programming entering the subscriber’s premises.
   (B)   The device shall be provided at a reasonable charge, except to the
extent that federal law specifically provides otherwise.
   (C)   The grantee may, however, require a reasonable security deposit for
the use of the device.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to channels that are on the basic or
expanded basic tier of programming unless the subscriber receives service via a
programmable terminal device, such as a converter.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.083 INSTALLATIONS EXCEEDING STANDARD INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Service drops in excess of 150 feet and concealed wiring in the home
shall be charged to the subscriber based upon time and material.
   (B)   The desire of the subscriber as to the point of entry into the
residence shall be observed whenever possible.
   (C)   Runs in building interiors shall be as unobtrusive as possible.
   (D)   The grantee shall use due care in the process of installation and
shall repair any damage to the subscriber’s property caused by the
installation.
   (E)   The restoration shall be undertaken within no more than ten days after
the damage is incurred and shall be completed as soon as possible thereafter.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.084 SERVICE AREA AND LINE EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   (1)   No grantee may discriminate in the build-out of its system to a
particular area of the city in providing service to an individual or groups of
residents on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition.
      (2)   Unless the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee
shall serve all areas of the city equally with populations of at least 15
residential dwelling units per cable mile as measured from a grantee’s existing
distribution system, including areas annexed subsequent to the grant of the
franchise.
      (3)   The franchise agreement shall provide a schedule of the areas to be
served, and the specific build-out requirements of the grantee, and shall also
describe the process for extending service to areas that will meet minimum
density requirements at some future date.
      (4)   Unless the franchise agreement provides otherwise, every grantee
shall extend service to commercial areas at no additional cost where the cost
to do so does not exceed the same cost of providing service in a residential
area with a density of 15 homes per mile.
   (B)   (1)   During the initial construction phase of a new system, a grantee
may implement its system in stages pursuant to a schedule and line extension
policy established in its franchise agreement that serves all areas of the city
equally, provided that any deviation from the service and line extension
requirements of this chapter do not discriminate between different areas of the
city on the basis of race, creed, religion or economic condition.
      (2)   A grantee of any new franchise shall comply with all customer
service obligations with respect to customers whose premises are passed by
portions of the grantee’s network which are fully activated, tested and
available for service.
   (C)   (1)   In areas with less than 15 homes per proposed cable mile, the
grantee shall offer a cost- sharing arrangement to residents.
      (2)   The grantee shall bear its pro rata share of the current
construction costs based upon the actual number of homes per mile.
      (3)   The cost-sharing arrangement shall consist of the following: on the
request of a resident desiring service, the grantee shall prepare, at its cost,
an engineering survey and cost analysis to determine the cost of the plant
extension required to provide service to the resident from the closest usable
point on the cable system.
      (4)   The cost of construction shall be allocated based on the following
formula: if a request for extension into a residential area requires the
construction of cable plant which does not pass at least 15 homes per cable
mile, a proportionate share of construction costs shall be borne by grantee and
by the subscribers.
         (a)   For example, if there are ten dwelling units per mile, the
grantee’s share will equal ten fifteenths of the construction cost.
         (b)   The remaining cost will be shared equally by each subscriber in
the area to be constructed.
      (5)   (a)   The line extension formula shall also be applied to a portion
of a cable mile meeting proportionate density requirements.
         (b)   For example, if there are seven dwelling units per one-half
mile, the grantee shall construct the plant.
      (6)   The cost-sharing described above would be utilized if there were
less than the proportionate share of dwelling units per the portion of a mile
needed to reach the dwelling units.
      (7)   Should additional subscribers request cable service, subscribers
utilizing the cost-sharing plan for extension shall be reimbursed pro-rata for
their contribution or a proportional share thereof.
      (8)   In such case, the pro-rata shares shall be recalculated and each
new subscriber shall pay the new pro-rata share, and all prior subscribers
shall receive refunds.
      (9)   In any event, at the end of 24 months from completion of the
project, the subscribers are no longer eligible for refunds, and the amounts
paid by subscribers will be credited to the plant account of the grantee.
      (10)   The average cost of the line extension shall be recalculated
annually based upon the current costs of labor and material.
      (11)   Each subscriber contributing toward the direct cost of the line
extension shall waive all ownership interest in the line extension.
      (12)   All equipment and components of the line extension, including, but
not limited to, cable wire, electronics and pedestals shall at all times remain
the exclusive property of the grantee.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.085 CITY MONITORING.
   (A)   In addition to free cable service required by the chapter, the grantee
shall provide one service feed to city hall, unless otherwise specified by the
city, that shall receive without charge all basic and expanded basic cable
programming provided by the grantee.
   (B)   The service shall be provided in such a manner that the city may
monitor the programming and use of the cable system for compliance with the
franchise agreement and this chapter.
   (C)   The service provided pursuant to this requirement shall be in a secure
office location, and not in a location open to public viewing.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.086 ACCESS TO INSIDE WIRING.
   Access to and ownership of inside wiring shall be in accordance with §§
76.800 et seq. of the FCC rules and regulations as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
CUSTOMER SERVICE PRACTICES
§ 113.105 GRANTEE’S DUTY TO COMPLY.
   The grantee will at all times comply with the city’s customer service
standards in addition to compliance with the FCC standards, 47 CFR 76.309,
Subpart H, as amended.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.106 IN GENERAL.
   The city’s customer service standards are:
   (A)   (1)   The customer service standards as set forth below are the
standards set for all affected cable operators.
      (2)   This provision is the city’s notice of its intent to enforce the
standards.
   (B)   Effective with adoption of this chapter, a cable operator shall be
subject to the customer service standards as set forth in the sections that
follow.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.107 CABLE SYSTEM OFFICE HOURS AND AVAILABILITY.
   (A)   The cable operator will maintain a local, toll-free or collect call
telephone access line which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours a
day, seven days a week.
      (1)   Trained representatives will be available to respond to customer
telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
      (2)   (a)   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered
by a service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
         (b)   Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded
to by a trained representative on the next business day.
   (B)   (1)   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
trained representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made.
      (2)   If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time shall not exceed
30 seconds.
      (3)   These standards shall be met no less than 90% of the time under
normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis.
   (C)   The cable operator will not be required to acquire equipment or
perform surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards
above, unless an historical record of complaints indicates a clear failure to
comply.
   (D)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a busy
signal less than 3% of the time.
   (E)   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at
least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.108 INSTALLATIONS, OUTAGES, AND SERVICE CALLS.
   Under normal operating conditions, each of the following four standards will
be met no less than 95% of the time measured on a quarterly basis:
   (A)   Standard installations will be performed within seven business days
after an order has been placed.
   (B)   (1)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the cable operator,
the cable operator will begin working on “service interruptions” promptly and
in no event later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known.
      (2)   The cable operator must begin actions to correct other service
problems the next business day after notification of the service problem.
   (C)   (1)   The “appointment window” alternatives for installations, service
calls and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four hour time block during normal business hours.
      (2)   The cable operator may schedule service calls and other
installation activities outside of normal business hours for the express
convenience of the customer.
   (D)   A cable operator may not cancel an appointment with a customer after
the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
   (E)   (1)   If a cable operator representative is running late for an
appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as
scheduled, the customer will be contacted.
      (2)   The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary, at a time that
is convenient for the customer.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.109 NOTIFICATIONS TO SUBSCRIBERS.
   (A)   The cable operator shall provide written information on each of the
following areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to
all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
      (1)   Products and services offered;
      (2)   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services;
      (3)   Installation and service maintenance policies;
      (4)   Instruction on how to use the cable service;
      (5)   Channel positions of programming carried on the system; and
      (6)   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the local franchise authority’s cable office.
   (B)   (1)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
service or channel positions as soon as possible in writing.
      (2)   Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance
of such changes if the change is within the control of the cable operator.
      (3)   In addition, the cable operator shall notify subscribers 30 days in
advance of any significant changes in the other information required by
division (A) of this section.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of 47 CFR 76, a cable operator
shall not be required to provide prior notice of any rate change that is the
result of a regulatory fee, franchise fee, or any other fee, tax, assessment,
or charge of any kind imposed by any federal agency, state or franchising
authority on the transaction between the operator and the subscriber.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.110 BILLING.
   (A)   (1)   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable.
      (2)   Bills must be fully itemized, with itemizations, including, but not
limited to, basic and premium service charges and equipment charges.
      (3)   Bills will also clearly delineate all activity during the billing
period, including optional charges, rebates and credits.
   (B)   In case of a billing dispute, the cable operator must respond to a
written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.111 REFUNDS.
   Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than either:
   (A)   The customer’s next billing cycle following resolution or the request
of 30 days, whichever is
earlier; or
   (B)   The return of the equipment supplied by the cable operator if service
is terminated.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.112 CREDITS.
   Credits for service will be issued no later than the customer’s next billing
cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
§ 113.125 RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Prior to commencing any construction in the city, a grantee must
obtain all necessary permits and licenses required by federal, state and
generally applicable city laws, ordinances and rules, and pay all associated
nondiscriminatory fees.
   (B)   Further, a grantee shall comply with all applicable laws, ordinances,
rules, and standards relating to the construction, operation and maintenance of
a cable system.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.126 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The construction, installation, and maintenance of the cable system
shall be effectuated by the grantee in a manner that is consistent with the
laws, ordinances and construction standards of the state, the Occupational
Safety and Health Administration, the National Electrical Safety Code, National
Electrical Code and the FCC, to the extent applicable, as well as all other
laws, rules, regulations and ordinances that are generally applicable and
promulgated pursuant to the city’s lawful police power.
   (B)   All open connections on splitters, couplers and other devices shall be
properly terminated.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.127 MINIMUM INTERFERENCE.
   (A)   All of the grantee’s construction, installation, operation, repair and
maintenance, and the arrangement of its lines, cables and other appurtenances,
on public or private property, shall be conducted in a manner as to not
unreasonably interfere with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners that may be affected.
   (B)   In the event the work is not in accordance with applicable rules and
regulations, the city may require the removal, within the period of time after
notice as is reasonable under the circumstances, of the grantee’s lines, cables
and appurtenances from the rights-of-way in question, at the sole expense of
the grantee.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.128 REPAIR OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   The grantee shall promptly repair and restore any city or private
property which may be damaged as a result of the construction, installation,
operation, repair, maintenance or removal of the cable system.
   (B)   Any property damaged or destroyed shall be promptly repaired and
restored by the grantee, at the grantee’s sole cost and expense to the
reasonable satisfaction of the city, to its condition prior to being damaged,
or shall be replaced by the grantee with equivalent property.
   (C)   The city may inspect and approve the condition of the rights-of-way
and cables, wires, attachments, and poles after restoration.
   (D)   The liability, indemnity, insurance and performance bond as provided
herein shall continue in full force and effect during the period of any removal
and until the grantee has fully complied with the terms and conditions of this
chapter and the franchise agreement.
   (E)   In the event of a failure by the grantee to complete any restoration
work required by the city within the time as may be established by the city and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the city, the city may, following reasonable
notice to the grantee, cause the work to be done and the grantee shall
reimburse the city the cost thereof within 30 days after receipt of an itemized
list of the costs, or the city may at its option recover the costs through the
performance bond provided by the grantee.
   (F)   The city shall be permitted to seek legal and equitable relief to
enforce the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.129 ERECTION OF POLES.
   (A)   A grantee shall not erect any pole on or along any rights-of-way in an
existing aerial utility system without the advance written approval of the
city.
   (B)   (1)   If additional poles in an existing aerial route are required,
the grantee shall negotiate, as needed, with the owners thereof for the
installation of the needed poles.
      (2)   The grantee shall negotiate the lease of pole space and facilities
from the existing pole owners for all aerial construction, under mutually
acceptable terms and conditions.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.130 RESERVATIONS OF STREET RIGHTS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the city from
constructing storm or sanitary sewers, grading, paving, repairing or altering
any rights-of-way, or laying down, repairing or removing water mains, traffic
signal control systems, city fiber plant, or constructing or establishing any
public utility, service or other public work that the city may operate or
undertake now or in the future.
   (B)   All the work shall be done, insofar as practicable, in a manner as not
to obstruct, injure or prevent the free use and operation of poles, wires,
conduits, conductors, pipes or appurtenances of the grantee.
   (C)   If the city in its reasonable judgment shall determine that the
grantee’s facilities interfere with the construction location or repair of any
rights-of-way or public improvement, then all the facilities of the grantee
shall be removed or replaced, or temporarily disconnected, in a manner as shall
be directed by the city so that the same shall not interfere with the public
works of the city.
   (D)   The removal or replacement shall be at the expense of the grantee;
provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall preclude the grantee from
seeking reimbursement for removal or replacement costs from any public funds
generally available to rights-of-way users for the reimbursement of the costs.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.131 UNDERGROUND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   In those areas within the city where cable television, telephone, or
electrical facilities are currently placed underground, all cable system
facilities shall remain or be placed underground.
   (B)   In areas where either telephone or electric utility facilities are
above ground at the time of installation, the grantee may install its cable
system facilities above ground, provided that at the time as both electric and
telephone utility facilities are placed underground, the grantee shall likewise
place its cable system facilities underground without cost to the city.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this section shall require a grantee to
construct, operate and maintain underground any ground-mounted appurtenances,
except that a grantee shall take steps to minimize the number and visual impact
of the facilities.
   (D)   If the grantor reimburses any utility for relocation, the grantee
shall be similarly reimbursed.
   (E)   This section shall not prevent the city or any of its agencies or
joint agencies from requiring the installation or relocation of cable services
facilities underground pursuant to a separate ordinance or regulation or
requirement imposed in accordance with the exercise of the general police power
or regulatory function of the agency or joint agency.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.132 CONDUIT.
   (A)   The city shall not be responsible for any cuts or damage to buried or
underground facilities of a grantee that are not clearly marked or cannot be
located through the state “one-call” service.
   (B)   (1)   A grantee shall provide strand and trench maps without detailed
measurement calculations in a format mutually agreeable to both the city and
the grantee.
      (2)   The information shall be subject to and not restrict any other city
ordinances.
      (3)   The city agrees to treat the maps as proprietary information to the
extent provided under law, or as may be indicated in city ordinances.
   (C)   (1)   A grantee shall provide a contact number for the city to call in
emergency situations requiring an immediate response on the part of the city.
      (2)   If the grantee does not properly and effectively identify the
precise location of its facilities within a reasonable period of time taking
into account the circumstance of an emergency call from the city, the city
shall not be responsible for damage to the grantee’s facilities.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.133 CLEARING POLES AND CABLES.
   (A)   A grantee shall have the right to remove, trim, cut and to keep clear
of its poles, cables, underground conduits and related equipment the trees in
and along the rights-of-way, but, in the exercise of the right, the grantee
shall not cut the trees to any greater extent than is reasonably necessary for
the construction, erection, installation, maintenance and use of cable system
equipment.
   (B)   Except in emergency situations, a grantee shall not remove, trim or
cut the trees from any rights-of-way without first providing reasonable notice
to the city of its intention to do so, the notice to be delivered not less than
ten days in advance.
   (C)   The grantee shall compensate the city or any private owners of the
trees for any damage proximately caused by the grantee’s negligent conduct.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.134 MOVING FACILITIES.
   (A)   A grantee, on the request of the city, or any person holding a
building permit issued by the city, or any permit issued by an appropriate
state agency, shall temporarily move its wires, cables, poles or other cable
system facilities to permit the moving of large objects, vehicles, buildings or
other structures.
   (B)   The expense of the temporary moves shall be paid to the grantee by the
person requesting the same and the grantee shall have the authority to require
the payment in advance.
   (C)   The grantee shall be given not less than 30 days’ advance notice to
arrange for temporary moves.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.135 WORK PERFORMED BY OTHERS.
   To the extent applicable, all provisions of this chapter shall apply to any
subcontractors or others performing any work or services pursuant to the
provisions of a franchise agreement on behalf of a grantee.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.136 DUTY TO GRANTEE.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall relieve any person from liability
arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring a
grantee’s facilities while performing any work connected with grading,
regarding or changing the line of any rights-of-way or with the construction or
reconstruction of any sewer or water system or utility system.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE
§ 113.155 FRANCHISE FEES.
   (A)   (1)   The administration of this chapter or the franchise agreement
imposes upon the city additional regulatory responsibility and expense, and in
consideration of permission to use the rights-of- way of the city for the
construction, operation and maintenance, of a cable system within the city, a
grantee of any franchise hereunder shall pay to the city a franchise fee in an
amount as designated in the franchise agreement, up to the maximum amount
allowed by applicable law.
      (2)   To the extent that applicable law changes the maximum authorized
franchise fee, the city reserves the right to change the franchise fee as
stated in the franchise agreement, by adopting an ordinance establishing the
new franchise fee rate and allowing reasonable notice to the grantee for
administration of the change.
      (3)   The city shall hold a public hearing prior to adopting any change
in the franchise fee.
   (B)   (1)   Payments due the grantor under this section shall be computed
quarterly, for the preceding quarter.
      (2)   Each quarterly payment shall be due and payable no later than 45
days after the end of the preceding quarter.
      (3)   Each payment shall be accompanied by a brief report by a grantee
showing the basis for the computation and a “franchise fee worksheet” listing
all of the sources of revenues attributable to the operation of the grantee’s
system in the city.
      (4)   All the payments shall be certified as correct by an officer of the
grantee.
   (C)   (1)   No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as an accord
that the amount paid is in fact the correct amount, nor shall the acceptance of
payment be construed as a release of any claim the grantor may have for further
sums payable under the provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement.
      (2)   All amounts paid shall be subject to audit and recomputation by the
grantor or its designee at any time during any calendar year, but not more than
once per calendar year, upon 20 calendar days’ notice, which shall include a
request for any documents sought to be reviewed.
      (3)   Audits shall be at the expense of the grantee if the additional
amount due is greater than 2% of the amount paid.
      (4)   Any additional amount due to the city as a result of the audit
shall be paid within 60 days following written notice to the grantee by the
city which notice shall include a copy of the audit report.
      (5)   The grantor’s right to audit and the grantee’s obligation to retain
records related to the franchise fee audit, shall expire three years from the
date on which the most recent franchise fee payment by the grantee was due from
the time of written notice of request of audit.
   (D)   In the event that any franchise payment or recomputed amount is not
made on or before the dates specified herein, the grantee shall pay as
additional compensation an interest charge, computed from the due date, at the
annual rate equal to the commercial prime interest rate of the city’s primary
depository bank during the period that the unpaid amount is owed.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.156 SECURITY FUND.
   Each grantee shall maintain a security fund with the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter and the applicable franchise agreement, in an
amount and in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.157 BONDS, INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Each grantee shall maintain bonds and insurance with the city in
amounts and in a manner as set forth in the grantee’s franchise agreement.
   (B)   Each grantee also shall be required to indemnify the city in a manner
as set forth in the grantee’s franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.158 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A grantor reserves the right to revoke the franchise, and all rights
and privileges pertaining thereto, in the event that:
      (1)   A grantee substantially violates any material provision of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
      (2)   A grantee attempts to evade any of the material provisions of this
chapter or a franchise agreement;
      (3)   A grantee practices an act of fraud or deceit upon the grantor;
      (4)   A grantee becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts,
or is adjudged bankrupt;
      (5)   A grantee fails to provide or maintain in full force and effect the
liability and indemnification coverage or the performance bond as required
pursuant to its franchise; or
      (6)   A grantee violates any orders or rulings of any regulatory body
having jurisdiction over the grantee relative to this chapter or the franchise
and after notice thereof, shall continue the violation and not remedy the same
within 60 days.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever a grantor has reason to believe that there may be
grounds for revocation of a franchise, the grantor shall first notify the
grantee in writing of its basis for believing grounds for revocation exist.
      (2)   The notice shall indicate with reasonable specificity the grounds
for revocation that are believed to exist so that the grantee may have a
reasonable opportunity to cure or otherwise address the same.
      (3)   If a grantee fails to adequately cure or address the purported
grounds for revocation within 30 days of the notice, then the grantor may, upon
30 days written notice to the grantee, commence a public administrative hearing
to determine whether there exists any ground for revocation.
   (C)   The administrative hearing shall be conducted so as to protect the
full due process rights of the parties and provide for, at a minimum, the right
to have counsel, the right to call and cross-examine witnesses, and the right
to a full transcript of the proceedings.
   (D)   After the close of the hearing, the grantor or the designated hearing
officer shall issue a written decision based on the record of the proceedings,
stating with specificity the findings and reasons supporting the decision.
   (E)   Upon revocation, a grantee shall have a period of 120 days subsequent
to the date of the formal adoption of a revocation of the franchise by the city
within which to file an appeal with a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (F)   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force and
effect.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.159 FORECLOSURE, RECEIVERSHIP AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   Upon the foreclosure or other judicial sale of all or a part of a
system, a grantee shall notify the grantor of the fact and the notification
shall be treated as a notification that a change in control of the grantee has
taken place, and the provisions of this chapter governing the consent to
transfer or change in ownership shall apply without regard to how the transfer
or change in ownership occurred.
   (B)   Apart from and supplemental to the right to revoke a franchise, a
grantor shall have the right to cancel a franchise agreement 120 days after the
appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over and conduct the business of a
grantee, whether in receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy, or other action
or proceeding, unless the receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated
prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or unless:
      (1)   Within 120 days after its election or appointment, the receiver or
trustee has fully complied with all the provisions of the grantee’s franchise
agreement and this chapter and remedied all defaults thereunder; and
      (2)   The receiver or trustee, within the 120 days, has executed an
agreement, duly approved by a court having jurisdiction, whereby the receiver
or trustee assumes and agrees to be bound by each and every provision of this
chapter and the applicable franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.160 PURCHASE OF SYSTEM.
   The grantor may, in accordance with and to the extent permitted by 47 USC
547, upon the payment of a fair valuation, purchase, condemn, acquire, take
over, and hold the property and plant of a grantee, in whole or in part, on the
following conditions:
   (A)   Upon revocation of a franchise, a fair valuation shall be an equitable
value that shall not include any sum attributable to the value of the franchise
itself, and plant and property shall be valued according to its book value at
the time of revocation, or the system’s initial cost less depreciation and
salvage.
   (B)   At the expiration of a franchise agreement and following a denial of
renewal of the franchise agreement, a fair valuation shall be the fair market
value of the plant and property, exclusive of the value attributed to the
franchise itself.
   (C)   In the event the grantor shall acquire a franchise pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter or a franchise agreement, and commence operation of
the system, the grantor shall reimburse the grantee for the fair market value
of the system.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.161 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   (A)   (1)   No grantee shall sell, transfer, lease, assign, sublet, or
dispose of, in whole or in part, an interest in or control of a franchise or
cable system or any of the rights or privileges granted by a franchise
agreement, without the prior consent of the grantor, which consent shall not be
unreasonably denied or delayed and may be denied only upon a good faith finding
by the grantor that the proposed transferee lacks the legal, technical, or
financial qualifications to consummate the transaction and operate the system
so as to perform its obligations under this chapter and the applicable
franchise agreement.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to sales of property or equipment in
the normal course of business.
      (3)   Consent from the grantor shall not be required for a transfer in
trust, mortgage, or other instrument of hypothecation, in whole or in part, to
secure indebtedness, or for a transfer to a person controlling, controlled by,
or under common control with a grantee.
   (B)   (1)   The following additional events shall be deemed to be a sale,
assignment, or other transfer of an interest in or control of a grantee or its
franchise or cable system requiring compliance with this section:
         (a)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of all or a majority of
a grantee’s assets;
         (b)   The sale, assignment, or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership, or other equity interests in a grantee by one or more
of its existing shareholders, partners, members, or other equity owners so as
to create a new controlling interest in a grantee;
         (c)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interest by a grantee so as to create a new
controlling interest in a grantee; and
         (d)   A grantee’s agreement to transfer management or operation of the
grantee or the system.
      (2)   The term “controlling interest” as used herein is not limited to
major stockholders but includes actual working control in whatever manner
exercised.
   (C)   (1)   In the case of any sale or transfer of ownership of an interest
in or control of a grantee or its franchise or cable system, the city shall
have 120 days to act upon any request for approval of the sale or transfer that
contains or is accompanied by the information as is required in accordance with
FCC regulations and the requirements of this chapter and the applicable
franchise agreement, including information related to the legal, technical and
financial qualifications, and the proposed transferee’s ability to operate the
system in accord with this chapter and the franchise agreement.
      (2)   Failure to provide all information reasonably requested by the city
as part of its review may be grounds for a denial of the proposed transfer.
      (3)   If the city fails to render a final decision on the request within
120 days after receipt by the city of all required information, the request
shall be deemed granted unless the grantee and the city agree to an extension
of the 120 day period.
   (D)   The consent or approval of the city to any transfer of the grantee
shall not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the city in and to
the rights-of-way, and any transfer shall, by its terms, be expressly subject
to the terms and conditions of this chapter and the franchise agreement.
   (E)   In the absence of extraordinary circumstances, the city will not
approve any transfer or assignment of the franchise prior to completion of
construction of the proposed initial system.
   (F)   Any approval by the city of a transfer shall be contingent upon the
prospective new grantee becoming a signatory to the franchise agreement.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
§ 113.162 PROCEDURE FOR VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a grantor has reason to believe that a grantee has
violated any material provision of a franchise agreement or this chapter, the
grantor shall first notify the grantee of the material violation and demand
correction within a reasonable time, which shall not be less than 20 days in
the case of the failure of a grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the
grantor under a franchise agreement, and 30 days in all other cases.
      (2)   If a grantee fails to correct the violation within the time
prescribed, or if a grantee is unable to correct the violation and fails to
commence corrective action within the time prescribed and to diligently remedy
the violation thereafter, the grantee shall then be given written notice of not
less than 20 days for public comment.
      (3)   The notice shall indicate with reasonable specificity the violation
alleged to have occurred.
   (B)   (1)   At the public hearing, the Board shall hear and consider all
relevant evidence and thereafter render findings and a decision based upon the
evidence.
      (2)   Any such hearing must, at a minimum, provide the grantee a full and
fair opportunity to be heard by the Board.
   (C)   In the event the Board finds that a grantee has corrected the
violation or promptly commenced correction of the violation after notice
thereof from the grantor and is diligently proceeding to fully remedy the
violation, or that no violation has occurred, the proceedings shall terminate
and no penalty or other sanction shall be imposed.
   (D)   In the event the Board finds that a violation exists and that a
grantee has not corrected the same in a satisfactory manner or did not promptly
commence and diligently proceed to correct the violation, the Board may impose
liquidated damages to be collected from the security fund, as set out in the
franchise agreement.
   (E)   (1)   If the Board elects to assess liquidated damages, then the
election shall constitute the grantor’s exclusive remedy for a period of 60
days.
      (2)   Thereafter, if a grantee remains in non-compliance, the grantor may
pursue any other available remedy.
   (F)   In the event that a franchise is cancelled or terminated by reason of
the default of a grantee, the security fund deposited pursuant to a franchise
agreement shall remain in effect and available to the grantor until all pending
claims or penalties are resolved or settled, after which point any remaining
amounts in the security fund shall revert to the grantee.
   (G)   The rights reserved to the grantor with respect to the security fund
are in addition to all other rights of the grantor, whether reserved by a
franchise agreement, this chapter, or authorized by law, and no action,
proceeding, or exercise of a right with respect to the security fund shall
affect any other right the grantor may have.
   (H)   (1)   In instances of repeated violations, whether remedied or not,
the grantor shall serve special notice outlining additional remediation
requirements.
      (2)   Failure to cure, as measured by repeated instances of the same
violation, is evidence of an evasive practice and may lead to revocation under
§
113.128.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
NONCOMPLIANCE
§ 113.175 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES.
   (A)   (1)   The grantee acknowledges that non-compliance with the provisions
of the franchise agreement and this chapter will harm subscribers and the city
and the amounts of actual damages will be difficult or impossible to ascertain.
      (2)   The city may therefore assess the following liquidated damages
against the grantee for unexcused non-compliance with the requirements of the
franchise agreement and this chapter.
      (3)   The grantee acknowledges that the liquidated damages set forth
below are a reasonable approximation of actual damages and that this provision
is intended to provide compensation and is not a penalty.
      (4)   All damages provided shall be cumulative, unless expressly stated.
         (a)   For failure to materially complete construction or extend
service in accordance with the chapter and the franchise agreement: $250 per
calendar day for each day the violation continues;
         (b)   For failure to materially comply with requirements for public
access channels: $250 per calendar day for each day the violation continues;
         (c)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the I-
Net provisions of the chapter/franchise agreement: $250 per calendar day for
each day the violation continues;
         (d)   For repeated, willful or continuing failure to submit reports,
maintain records, provide documents or information: $250 per calendar day for
each day the violation continues;
         (e)   For failure to comply with the material requirements of the
customer service standards: $250 per calendar day for each day the violation
continues;
         (f)   For failure to comply with the transfer provisions: $250 per
calendar day for each day the violation continues;
         (g)   For violation of other material provisions of the chapter and
the franchise agreement: up to $250 per calendar day for each day the violation
continues.
   (B)   (1)   Any person operating without a franchise shall be subject to a
fine of $500 per day.
      (2)   The payment of the fine notwithstanding, all violators shall be
subject to all other applicable provisions of this chapter, including but not
limited to the payment of a franchise fee.
(Ord. passed 8-27-02)
CHAPTER 114: RESERVED
CHAPTER 115: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
115.01   Purpose, exemptions
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Sexually oriented business classifications
   
115.04   License required
   
115.05   Issuance of license
   
115.06   Appeal
   
115.07   Fees
   
115.08   Location
   
115.09   Inspection
   
115.10   Expiration of license
   
115.11   Suspension
   
115.12   Revocation
§ 115.01 PURPOSE, EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The city is committed to protecting the general welfare of the city
through the enforcement of laws prohibiting obscenity, indecency, and sexual
offenses. It seeks to reduce and eliminate the deleterious effects of sexually
oriented businesses while preserving constitutionally protected forms of
expression.
   (B)   The city finds that sexually oriented businesses in certain locations
contribute to neighborhood deterioration and blight through an increase in
crime and diminution of property values, among other adverse consequences, and
finds that such effects are contrary to the general welfare of the city. The
city recognizes that important and substantial government interests provide a
constitutional basis for reasonable regulation of the time, place and manner
under which sexually oriented businesses operate; and that, therefore, the city
has determined that persons seeking to operate sexually oriented businesses
shall be required to observe specific locational requirements before they
commence business, as provided for in this article.
   (C)   The city finds that the licensing of sexually oriented businesses is
necessary to ensure compliance with the locational and zoning requirements of
such businesses. The city finds that sexually oriented businesses in other
communities have been used for unlawful sexual activities, including
prostitution, and sexual encounters of a casual nature. The concern over
sexually transmitted diseases is a legitimate health concern of the city. The
provisions of this article shall not be construed as permitting any use,
activity or structure that is otherwise prohibited, illegal or made punishable
by law, nor shall it be construed so as to prohibit conduct or expression that
is subject to constitutional protection.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE (also known as PEEP SHOW). Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically-controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show images to
persons in booths or viewing rooms where the images so displayed depict or
describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which as
one of its principal business purposes offers for sale or rental for any form
of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations that depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or other commercial
establishment that regularly features, exhibits or displays as one of its
principal business purposes:
      (1)   Persons who appear nude or semi-nude; or
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other
photographic reproductions which depict or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration,
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that
depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as
one of its principal business purposes; or
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown as one of its principal business
purposes that depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features, exhibits or displays, as one of its
principal business purposes, persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-
nude, or live performances that expose or depict specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   APPLICANT.  The person who will operate the sexually oriented business, and
shall include each of the following persons associated with that business:
      (1)   The owner of a sole proprietorship;
      (2)   Each member of a firm, association or general partnership;
      (3)   Each general partner in a limited partnership;
      (4)   Each officer, director and owner of more than 10% of the stock of a
corporation;
      (5)   The manager of an establishment operated by a corporation;
      (6)   Any manager who has been empowered as attorney-in-fact for a
nonresident individual or partnership.
   CITY MANAGER. The Creedmoor City Manager.
   EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE and EMPLOYMENT. Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-
time, part-time or contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an
employee, independent contractor, agent or otherwise.
   ESCORT. A person who, for tips or any other form of consideration, agrees or
offers to act as a date for another person, or who agrees to privately model
lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business that furnishes, offers to furnish, or
advertises to furnish escorts as one of its principal business purposes, for a
fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business; or
      (2)   The conversion of any existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE.  Person(s) in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears semi-nude, in a
state of nudity, or who displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be
observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly
depicted by other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. NUDE
MODEL STUDIO shall not include a proprietary school or a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or in part by public taxation; a
private college or university which maintains and operates educational programs
in which credits are transferable to a college, junior college, or university
supported entirely or partly by taxation; or in a structure:
      (1)   That has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude or semi-nude person is available for
viewing; and
      (2)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      (3)   Where no more than one nude or semi-nude is on the premises at any
one time.
   NUDITY or a STATUS OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of a human anus, male genitals, or female genitals;
or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human anus, male
genitals, or female genitals.
   OPERATES or CAUSES TO BE OPERATED.  To cause to function or to put or keep
in operation. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner,
or licensee of the business.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form of consideration, physical
contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the opposite
sex, or activities between male and female person and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, sexual encounter center, or any combination
of the foregoing.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts; or
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy; or
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any of the
following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business.
      (2)   Persons other than those named as applicants for a license becoming
associated with the business, as provided in the definition of applicant;
except that a mere substitution of a person as manager of an establishment
shall only require filing with the Code Enforcement Officer and Chief of
Police.
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except of transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.03 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS CLASSIFICATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades.
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores.
   (C)   Adult cabarets.
   (D)   Adult motels.
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters.
   (F)   Adult theaters.
   (G)   Escort agencies.
   (H)   Nude model studios.
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business
without a valid sexually oriented business privilege license approved by Code
Enforcement Officer pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form prescribed by the
Code Enforcement Officer. An application must be accompanied by a sketch or
diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of
total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be
professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
marked dimensions of the interior of the premises.
   (C)   The applicant may request and the applicant shall provide such
information as to enable the Code Enforcement Officer to determine whether each
applicant meets the qualifications established in this article.
   (D)   Each applicant must be qualified in accordance with this article and
each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   Each applicant must request and receive a special use permit when
required by the local zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Within 30 days after receipt of a completed application, the city will
approve or deny the issuance of a license to an applicant for a sexually
oriented business license. The city will approve the issuance of a license to
an applicant unless it finds one or more of the following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   The license fee required by this section has not been paid.
      (3)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in payment to the
city taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the
applicant or the applicant's spouse in relation to a sexually oriented
business.
      (4)   An applicant has failed to provide information required in order to
determine the qualifications of the applicant under this article for issuance
of the license, or has falsely answered a question or request for information
on the application form.
      (5)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with this chapter or other provisions of this code, including
local zoning requirements.
      (6)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a
violation or a provision of this article, other than the offense of operating a
sexually oriented business without a license, within two years immediately
preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect.
      (7)   The Chief of Police shall make a recommendation to the Code
Enforcement Officer based on a check of any state, federal and/or local
repository for criminal history to determine if an applicant and/or an
applicant's spouse has been convicted of a crime involving.
      (8)   Any offense described in G.S. Chapter 14 (Articles 7A, 26, 26A, 27,
37, or 39); or any similar offenses to those described above under the criminal
or penal code of North Carolina, other states, Creedmoor, or other towns,
cities or other countries; or facilitation, attempt, conspiracy, or
solicitation to commit any of the foregoing offenses; for which:
         (a)   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         (c)   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement of the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month
period.
         (d)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
         (e)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been
convicted of an offense listed above may qualify for a sexually oriented
business license only when the period required by this article has lapsed.
         (f)   The applicant has failed to make application using a legal name
or as failed to produce a valid state driver's license or a valid state
identification card.
   (B)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the legal name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the classification of sexually
oriented business for which it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the sexually oriented business. Licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that they
may be easily read at any time.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.06 APPEAL.
   (A)   An applicant who's application is denied, suspended or revoked by Code
Enforcement Officer may appeal such action in writing within 30 days, to the
City Board of Commissioners, who shall decide either to uphold the action or to
issue the license not later than the second regular town board meeting after
receipt of the appeal. The applicant or licensee shall have the right to
present evidence before the City Board. The decision to uphold the action of
the Code Enforcement Officer or issue the license shall be based solely on the
criteria established in this article for the action by the Code Enforcement
Officer. A suspension or revocation shall be stayed during the pendency of an
appeal to the City Board.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.07 FEES.
   (A)   Every sexually oriented business that is granted a license (new or
renewal) shall pay to the city an annual nonrefundable privilege license fee of
$1,000 upon license issuance or renewal.
   (B)   A substitution of a manager of the business which occurs during the
license years shall be filed with the Code Enforcement Officer within 30 days
of its occurrence, and a $100 investigation fee paid.
   (C)   All license applications and fees shall be submitted to the city.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.08 LOCATION.
   (A)   Overconcentration. No more than one sexually oriented business is
located in any 2,000 foot radius (determined by a straight line and not street
distance), Sexually oriented businesses which, because of their very nature,
are recognized as having serious objectionable characteristics upon adjacent
neighborhoods, particularly when they are concentrated. Special regulation of
these establishments is necessary to insure that these adverse effects will not
contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding neighborhood. To
prevent an overconcentration of sexually oriented businesses and the creation
of a de facto downgrading or blighting of surrounding neighborhoods; this
radius requirement is necessary.
   (B)   Residential proximity. No sexually oriented business is located within
a 2,000 foot radius (determined by a straight line and not street distance) of
any place of worship, school (public or private), specialty school, day-care
facility, or any residential zoning districts or residential properties.
Sexually oriented businesses because of their very nature, are recognized as
having serious objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when
they are located near a residential zoning district or any other districts
which permit residential uses. Special regulation of these establishments is
necessary to insure that these adverse effects will not contribute to a
downgrading or blighting of surrounding residential districts or certain other
districts which permit residential uses.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.09 INSPECTION.
   (A)   A business license applicant or licensee shall permit representatives
of the police department or any other town, city, county, state, or federal
department, division, or agency that enforces codes, regulations of statutes
relating to human health, safety or welfare or structural safety, to inspect
the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   The provisions of this article do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by the customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.10 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in this article. Application for
renewal should be made at least 30 days before the expiration date, and when
made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the
license will not be affected.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.11 SUSPENSION.
   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to, and will, suspend a sexually
oriented business license for a period not to exceed 30 days if the police
department and/or inspections department determines that a business licensee
has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with this subchapter or with any
other requirements of this code, including those relating to buildings,
electricity, plumbing, fire safety, and mechanical equipment; or
   (B)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this article; or
   (C)   Permitted illegal gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
   (D)   Demonstrated an inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
§ 115.12 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to, and will, revoke a
license if a cause for suspension occurs and the license has been suspended
within the preceding 12 months.
   (B)   The Code Enforcement Officer is authorized to, and will, revoke a
sexually oriented business license if the police department determines that a
business licensee:
      (1)   Gave false or misleading information in the material submitted to
the city during the application process, including, but not limited to, the use
of a name other than a legal name to procure a license; or
      (2)   Has allowed the possession, use, or sale of controlled substances
on the premises; or
      (3)   Has allowed prostitution on the premises; or
      (4)   Has operated or worked in the sexually oriented business during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended; or
      (5)   Has been convicted of an offense named in §
115.04 for which the time period required has not lapsed; or
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime named in §
115.04 for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons were
employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the offenses were
committed; or
      (7)   Has allowed any act of sexual intercourse, masturbation, oral
copulation, or sodomy to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (8)   Is delinquent in payment to the city of ad valorem taxes, sale
taxes, or the annual license fee, or any other fee or tax related to the
sexually oriented business or other business of the licensee; or
      (9)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the revocation of the license.
   (C)   When the Code Enforcement Officer revokes a license, the revocation
shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually
oriented business license for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the Code Enforcement Officer finds
that the basis for the revocation has been corrected or abated, the licensee
may be granted a license if at least 90 days have lapsed since the date the
revocation became effective. If the license was revoked, an applicant may not
be granted another license until the appropriate number of years required under
this article have elapsed.
(Ord. 2006-O-06, passed 5-23-06)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Profanity and boisterous conduct
   
130.02   Discharging of firearms and other weapons
   
130.03   Disturbing public meetings
   
130.04   Injuring property of city
   
130.05   Consumption of alcoholic beverages
§ 130.01 PROFANITY AND BOISTEROUS CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use loud, boisterous or profane
language in any public place in a manner so as to create a public disturbance.
Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-1001) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Offenses against the public peace, see G.S. Chapter 14, Art. 35
§ 130.02 DISCHARGING  OF FIREARMS AND OTHER WEAPONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire, shoot or discharge, or
cause to be fired, shot or discharged, within the municipal corporate limits of
the City of Creedmoor, any gun, pistol, rifle, or other firearm, or make use of
any crossbow, slingshot, blowgun, or similar device, by whatever name, for
throwing or propelling with force a metal projectile, shot, slug, bolt, or
rock, except:
      (1)   Any sworn law enforcement officer, licensed private protective
services officer, or bail bondsman in the performance of his/her official
duties;
      (2)   Any persons using firearms in necessary, lawful, self-defense or
defense of another person;
      (3)   Any sworn law enforcement officer or authorized representative of
the City of Creedmoor conducting wildlife management activities for the sole
purpose of shooting or killing any dangerous or nuisance animal or reptile
encroaching upon public or private property, city park, greenway, or
conservation land;
      (4)   When such firing or discharge is made without projectiles (i.e.
blank rounds) pursuant to a pre-approved recreational, educational, theatrical,
instructional program, athletic event, demonstration, show, exhibit, funeral or
ceremony conducted or supervised by the City of Creedmoor, the City of
Creedmoor Police Department, or another competent authority acceptable to the
Chief of Police. Approval shall be evidenced in writing by the Chief of Police
to the applicant, and the Chief shall impose any condition or conditions upon
the discharge(s) deemed to be necessary and prudent with due regard to life,
property, general welfare, and public safety. Such permit shall be revocable by
the Chief upon a finding that the permit holder is not exercising the privilege
of such permit in a careful and prudent manner and with due regard to life and
property;
      (5)   A certified gunsmith, firearms manufacturer, or firearms research
and development laboratory that during the course of experimentation,
fabrication, assembly, repair, or maintenance must test fire a firearm to
determine its functionality, as long as there is a proper bullet or snail trap,
or other acceptable method of projectile capture and noise reduction in place;
      (6)   The owner or occupant of any land who has been granted temporary
written permission by the Chief of Police to shoot blank cartridges at birds
when they become a nuisance on such land;
      (7)   Any adult person attending a facility lawfully operating as a
rifle, pistol, skeet, or trap range or other firing range or shooting gallery
and any minor attending such a facility with direct adult supervision.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department is hereby
authorized to seize and hold subject to order of court, any such firearm,
rifle, gun or pistol, crossbow or other similar device which impels with force
any shot of any kind, which shall be used, shot, or discharged within the city,
in violation of this section.
   (C)   Any person who shall knowingly and willfully permit his or her minor
child under 18 years of age to discharge, fire, shoot or operate, within the
corporate limits of the city, any such air rifle, BB gun or pellet gun, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance
with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-1002) (Ord. passed 1-15-16; Am. Ord. 88-O-10, passed 11-22-88;
Res. 2010-R-02, passed 1-26-10; Am. Ord. 2015-O-01, passed 3-16-15; Am. Ord.
2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference: 
   Authority to regulate and restrict firearms and pellet guns, see G.S. §§
160A-189, 160A-190
§ 130.03 DISTURBING PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to behave in a boisterous or indecent manner or to
create any disturbance at or near any public entertainment or meeting.
Violation of this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-1003) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 INJURING PROPERTY OF CITY.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully injure, damage, deface, trespass upon,
break or injure any property belonging to the city. Violation of this section
may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(`84 Code, § 8-1004) (Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverage as used in this section is defined the same as the
term is defined in G.S. § 18B-101(4).
   (B)   Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful to consume or
possess any open alcoholic beverages in, or for any person under the influence
of alcohol to enter or remain on or upon any public place, park, building,
street, sidewalk, alley or parking lot owned, leased or maintained by the city,
county or state.
   (C)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages shall be lawful on or upon
property owned or leased by the city, upon securing the necessary rental
agreement or special event permit from the city, and the necessary permit from
the North Carolina Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission. Any person or group
requesting such permissions shall submit all necessary permits and rental
applications to the city prior to the event. The City Manager shall grant or
deny such permits or applications after consultation with the Police Chief.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to consume or possess any open any alcoholic
beverages upon the private property or private business premises of another,
without permission of the owner or person entitled to possession of such
premises, unless such beverages can be consumed as provided by law.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess any open
alcoholic beverage in any park. It shall be unlawful for any person under the
influence of alcoholic beverages to enter or remain in any park.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to drop, throw, cast or deposit any alcoholic
beverage container in any public place other than a bona fide trash disposal
site or utensil; upon any public street, sidewalk, alley or parking lot; or
upon the private premises of another without permission of the owner or person
entitled to possession of such premises.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess any open
alcoholic beverages in or upon a motor vehicle or motorized bicycle in or upon
any public place; in or upon any street, sidewalk, alley or parking lot; or
upon the private premises of another, without permission of the owner or person
entitled to possession of such premises.
(Ord. 2010-O-13, passed 7-27-10; Am. Ord. 2020-O-07, passed 5-11-20)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
   
151.   MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
   
152.   LAND DEVELOPMENT
   
153.   RESERVED
   
154.   RESERVED
   
155.   RESERVED
   
156.   COMMUNITY APPEARANCE
   
157.   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions; Adoption of Codes
   
150.01   Scope
   
150.02   Building code adopted
   
150.03   Plumbing code adopted
   
150.04   Heating code adopted
   
150.05   Electrical code adopted
   
150.06   Residential building code adopted
   
150.07   Amendments
   
150.08   Compliance
   
150.09   Copies filed with Code Enforcement Officer
Inspection Department
   
150.25   Organization
   
150.26   General duties
   
150.27   Conflicts of interest
   
150.28   Reports and records
   
150.29   Inspection procedure
   
150.30   Oversight not to legalize violation
   
150.31   Powers of inspection officials
nforcement
   
150.65   Permits required
   
150.66   Application for permit
   
150.67   Plans and specifications
   
150.68   Limitations on issuance of permits
   
150.69   Issuance of permit
   
150.70   Revocation of permits
   
150.71   Time limitations on validity of permits
   
150.72   Changes in work
   
150.73   Permit fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS; ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.01 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes herein adopted
shall apply to the following:
   (A)   The location, design, materials, equipment, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair, maintenance, moving, demolition, removal,
use and occupancy of every building or structure or any appurtenances connected
or attached to the building or structure;
   (B)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
plumbing systems consisting of house sewers, building drains, waste and vent
systems, hot and cold water supply systems, and all fixtures and appurtenances
thereof;
   (C)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air conditioning and
refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and appurtenances thereof; and
   (D)   The installation, erection, alteration, repair, use and maintenance of
electrical systems and appurtenances thereof.
(`84 Code, § 9-1001) (Ord. passed 10-6-66)
§ 150.02 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina State Building Code (Volume
I, General Construction), as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code
Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full.
(`84 Code, § 9-1002) (Ord. passed 10-6-66)
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Plumbing Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing) as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(`84 Code, § 9-1003) (Ord. passed 10-6-66)
§ 150.04 HEATING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina
State Building Code, Volume III, Heating) as adopted by the North Carolina
Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(`84 Code, § 9-1004) (Ord. passed 10-6-66)
§ 150.05 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Electrical Code (North
Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical), as adopted by the North
Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(`84 Code, § 9-1005) (Ord. passed 10-6-66)
§ 150.06 RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The most current edition of the North Carolina Uniform Residential Building
Code, as adopted by the North Carolina Building Code Council and as amended, is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(`84 Code, § 9-1006) (Ord. passed 10-6-66; Am. Ord. passed 2-27-68)
§ 150.07 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the regulatory codes adopted by reference herein, which are
from time to time adopted and published by the agencies or organizations
referred to herein, shall be effective in the city at the time the amendments
are filed with the Code Enforcement Officer as provided in §
150.09.
(`84 Code, § 9-1007) (Ord. passed 10-6-66)
§ 150.08 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All buildings or structures which are hereafter constructed,
reconstructed, erected, altered, extended, enlarged, repaired, demolished or
moved shall conform to the requirements, minimum standards and other provisions
of either the North Carolina State Building Code, General Construction, Volume
I or the North Carolina Uniform Residential State Building Code, whichever is
applicable, or of both if both are applicable.
   (B)   Every building or structure intended for human habitation, occupancy
or use shall have plumbing, plumbing systems or plumbing fixtures installed,
constructed, altered, extended, repaired or reconstructed in accordance with
the minimum standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina
Plumbing Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume II, Plumbing).
   (C)   All mechanical systems consisting of heating, ventilating, air
conditioning and refrigeration systems, fuel burning equipment and
appurtenances shall be installed, erected, altered, repaired, used and
maintained in accordance with the minimum standards, requirements and other
provisions of the North Carolina Heating Code (North Carolina State Building
Code, Volume III, Heating).
   (D)   All electrical wiring, installations and appurtenances shall be
erected, altered, repaired, used and maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards, requirements and other provisions of the North Carolina Electrical
Code (North Carolina State Building Code, Volume IV, Electrical).
(`84 Code, § 9-1008)
§ 150.09 COPIES FILED WITH CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted herein, and official copies
of all amendments thereto, shall be kept on file in the office of the Code
Enforcement Officer. The copies shall be the official copies of the codes and
the amendments.
(`84 Code, § 9-1009) (Ord. passed 10-6-66)
INSPECTION DEPARTMENT
§ 150.25 ORGANIZATION.
   The Inspection Department of the city shall consist of a Code Enforcement
Officer, and may also include a Plumbing Inspector, a Heating-Air Conditioning
Inspector, an Electrical Inspector, an Insulation Inspector and such other
Inspectors or Deputy or Assistant Inspectors as may be authorized by the Board.
The Board may in its discretion designate a City Manager.
(`84 Code, § 9-1021)
§ 150.26 GENERAL DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Inspection Department to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and of the regulatory codes adopted herein, and to
make all inspections necessary to determine whether or not the provisions of
this chapter and the codes are being met.
(`84 Code, § 9-1022)
§ 150.27 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer or employee of the Inspection Department shall be financially
interested in the furnishing of labor, material or appliances for the
construction, alteration or maintenance of a building or any part thereof, or
in the making of plans or specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of the building. No officer or employee of the Inspection Department
shall engage in any work which is inconsistent with his or her duties or with
the interests of the city.
(`84 Code, § 9-1023)
§ 150.28 REPORTS AND RECORDS.
   The Inspection Department shall keep complete, permanent and accurate
records in convenient form of all applications received, permits issued,
inspections and reinspections made, and all other work and activities of the
Inspection Department. Periodic reports shall be submitted to the Board and to
other agencies, as required.
(`84 Code, § 9-1024)
§ 150.29 INSPECTION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Inspection Department shall inspect all buildings and structures
and work therein for which a permit of any kind has been issued as often as
necessary in order to determine whether the work complies with the appropriate
codes.
   (B)   When deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector, materials and
assemblies may be inspected at the point of manufacture or fabrication, or
inspections may be made by approved and recognized inspection organizations;
provided, no approval shall be based upon reports of such organization unless
the same are in writing and certified by a responsible officer of the
organization.
   (C)   All holders of permits, or their agents, shall notify the Inspection
Department and the appropriate inspector at each of the following stages of
construction, so that approval may be given before work is continued.
      (1)   A foundation inspection will be made after trenches are excavated
and the necessary reinforcement and forms are in place, and before concrete is
placed. Drilled footings, piles and similar types of foundations shall be
inspected as installed.
      (2)   A framing inspection will be made after all structural framing is
in place and all roughing in of plumbing, electrical and heating has been
installed, after all fire blocking, chimneys, bracing and vents are installed,
but before any of the structure is enclosed or covered. Poured in place
concrete structural elements shall be inspected before each pour of any
structural member.
      (3)   A fireproofing inspection will be made after all areas required to
be protected by fire- proofing are lathed, but before the plastering or other
fireproofing is applied.
      (4)   A final inspection will be made after the building or structure has
all doors hung, fixtures set, and is ready for occupancy, but before the
building is occupied.
   (D)   Calls for inspection are requests for inspections that may be made to
the Office of the Inspection Department or to the appropriate inspector. The
Inspection Department shall make inspections as soon as practicable after a
request is made therefor, provided the work is ready for inspection at the time
the request is made.
   (E)   Reinspections may be made at the convenience of the inspector. No work
shall be inspected until it is in proper and completed condition ready for
inspection. All work which has been concealed before the inspection and
approval shall be uncovered at the request of the inspector and placed in
condition for proper inspection. Approval or rejection of the work shall be
furnished by the appropriate inspector in the form of a notice posted on the
building or given to the permit holder or his or her agent. Failure to call for
inspections or proceeding without approval at each stage of construction shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Where the applicant for a permit proposes to erect any building or
structure on the line of any street, alley or other public place, he or she
shall secure a survey of the line of the street, alley or other public place
adjacent to the property upon which the building or structure is to be erected
before proceeding with construction of such building or structure. It shall be
the duty of the Building Inspector to see that the building does not encroach
upon such street, alley or other public place.
   (G)   (1)   No new building or part thereof shall be occupied, and no
addition or enlargement of any existing building shall be occupied, and no
existing building after being altered or moved shall be occupied, and no change
of occupancy shall be made in any existing building or part thereof, until the
Inspection Department has issued a certificate of occupancy therefor.
      (2)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion or
portions of a building which may safely be occupied prior to final completion
and occupancy of the entire building.
      (3)   Application for a certificate of occupancy may be made by the owner
or his or her agent after all final inspections have been made for new
buildings, or, in the case of existing buildings, after supplying the
information and data necessary to determine compliance with this chapter, the
appropriate regulatory codes and the zoning ordinance for the occupancy
intended.
      (4)   The Inspection Department shall issue a certificate of occupancy
when, after examination and inspection, it is found that the building in all
respects conforms to the provisions of this chapter, the regulatory codes, and
the zoning ordinance for the occupancy intended.
(`84 Code, § 9-1025)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.30 OVERSIGHT NOT TO LEGALIZE VIOLATION.
   No oversight or dereliction of duty on the part of any inspector or other
official or employee of the Inspection Department shall be deemed to legalize
the violation of any provision of this chapter or any provision of any
regulatory code herein adopted.
(`84 Code, § 9-1026)
§ 150.31 POWERS OF INSPECTION OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Inspectors are hereby authorized, empowered and directed to enforce
all the provisions of this chapter, and the regulatory codes herein adopted.
   (B)   With an appropriate warrant or permission from the owner or occupant,
inspectors shall have the right to enter on any premises within the
jurisdiction of the regulatory codes herein adopted at reasonable hours for the
purpose of inspection or enforcement of the requirements of this chapter and
the applicable regulatory codes.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever any building or structure or part thereof is being
demolished, constructed, reconstructed, altered or repaired in a hazardous
manner, or in violation of any provision of this chapter or any other city
ordinance, or in violation of any provision of any regulatory code herein
adopted, or in violation of the terms of the permit or permits issued therefor,
or in a manner as to endanger life or property, the appropriate inspector may
order the work to be immediately stopped.
      (2)   The order shall be in writing to the owner of the property or to
his or her agent, or to the person doing the work, and shall state the reasons
therefor and the conditions under which the work may be resumed.
(`84 Code, § 9-1027)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.65 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Building permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, removal or demolition of any
building or other structure, or any part thereof, without a written permit
therefor from the Code Enforcement Officer; provided, however, that no building
permit shall be required for work, the total cost of which does not exceed $100
and which does not involve any change of the structural parts or the stairways,
elevators, fire escapes or other means of egress of the building or the
structure in question.
      (1)   County Board of Health approval of a septic tank is required where
the sewage system cannot be connected to the city sewer system.
      (2)   In all cases of removal or demolition of a building or structure a
good and sufficient bond may be required to be posted by the property owner or
by his or her contractor at the time of application for a permit, to insure
complete removal or demolition, including all rubble and debris.
      (3)   Failure on the part of the property owner or his or her contractor
to completely demolish, remove and clear the premises, after 30 days’ notice by
the Code Enforcement Officer, shall be cause for forfeiture of the bond.
   (B)   Plumbing permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension or general repair of any plumbing system without a
written permit therefor from the Plumbing Inspector; provided, however, no
permit shall be required for minor repairs or replacements on the house side of
a trap to an installed system of plumbing if the repairs or replacements do not
disrupt the original water supply or the waste or ventilating systems.
   (C)   Heating-air conditioning permit. No person shall commence or proceed
with the installation, extension, alteration or general repair of any heating
or cooling equipment system without a written permit from the Heating-Air
Conditioning Inspector; provided, however, no permit shall be required for
minor repairs, minor burner services or filter replacements of warm air
furnaces or cooling systems.
   (D)   Electrical permit. No person shall commence or proceed with the
installation, extension, alteration, or general repair of any electrical
wiring, devices, appliances or equipment without a written permit therefor from
the Electrical Inspector; provided, however, no permit shall be required for
minor repair work such as the replacement of lamps or the connection of
portable devices to suitable receptacles which have been permanently installed;
provided, further, no permit shall be required for the installation, alteration
or repair of the electrical wiring, devices, appliances and equipment installed
by or for an electrical public utility corporation for the use of the
corporation in the generation, transmission, distribution or metering of
electrical energy.
(`84 Code, § 9-1041) (Ord. passed 8-26-20)
§ 150.66 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Written application shall be made for all permits required by this
chapter, and shall be made on forms provided by the Inspection Department.
   (B)   The application shall be made by the owner of the building or
structure affected or by his or her authorized agent or representative, and, in
addition to other information as may be required by the appropriate inspector
to enable him or her to determine whether the permit applied for should be
issued, shall show the following:
      (1)   Name, residence and business address of owner;
      (2)   Name, residence and business of authorized representative or agent,
if any;
      (3)   Name and address of the contractor, if any, together with evidence
that he or she has obtained a certificate from the appropriate state licensing
board for the contractors, if a certificate is required for the work involved
in the permit for which application is made; and
      (4)   Description of proposed work.
(`84 Code, § 9-1042)
§ 150.67 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Detailed plans and specifications shall accompany each application for
a permit when the estimated total cost of the building or structure is in
excess of $45,000 and for any other building or structure where plans and
specifications are deemed necessary by the appropriate inspector in order for
him or her to determine whether the proposed work complies with the appropriate
regulatory codes.
   (B)   Plans shall be drawn to scale with sufficient clarity to indicate the
nature and extent of the work proposed, and the plans and specifications
together shall contain information sufficient to indicate that the work
proposed will conform to the provisions of this chapter, and the appropriate
regulatory codes.
   (C)   Where plans and specifications are required, a copy of the same shall
be kept at the work until all authorized operations have been completed and
approved by the appropriate inspector.
(`84 Code, § 9-1043)
§ 150.68 LIMITATIONS ON ISSUANCE OF PERMITS.
   (A)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure, the
estimated total cost of which is more than $30,000, unless the work is to be
performed by a licensed general contractor.
   (B)   No building permit shall be issued for any building or structure,
other than a one- or two-family dwelling, the estimated total cost of which is
more than $90,000, unless the plans bear the North Carolina seal of a
registered architect or a registered engineer.
   (C)   Where any provisions of the general statutes or of any ordinance
requires that work be done by a licensed specialty contractor of any kind, no
permit for the work shall be issued unless it is to be performed by the
licensed specialty contractor.
   (D)   Where detailed plans and specifications are required by this chapter,
no building permit shall be issued unless the plans and specifications have
been provided.
(`84 Code, § 9-1044)
§ 150.69 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   When proper application for a permit has been made, and the appropriate
inspector is satisfied that the application and the proposed work comply with
the provisions of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes, he or she
shall issue the permit, upon payment of the proper fee or fees as hereinafter
provided.
(`84 Code, § 9-1045)
§ 150.70 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   The appropriate inspector may revoke and require the return of any permit by
notifying the permit holder in writing, stating the reason for the revocation.
Permits shall be revoked for any material departure from the approved
application, plans, or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with
proper orders of the inspector; for refusal or failure to comply with
requirements of this chapter and the appropriate regulatory codes; or for false
statements or misrepresentations made in securing the permit.
(`84 Code, § 9-1046)
§ 150.71 TIME LIMITATIONS ON VALIDITY OF PERMITS.
   All permits issued under this chapter shall expire by limitation six months
after the date of issuance if the work authorized by the permit has not been
commenced. If after commencement, the work is discontinued for a period of 12
months, the permit therefor shall immediately expire. No work authorized by any
permit which has expired shall thereafter be performed until a new permit has
been secured.
(`84 Code, § 9-1047)
§ 150.72 CHANGES IN WORK.
   After a permit has been issued, changes or deviations from the terms of the
application and permit, or changes or deviations from the plans or
specifications involving any work under the jurisdiction of this chapter or of
any regulatory code adopted herein, shall not be made until specific written
approval of the changes or deviations has been obtained from the appropriate
inspector.
(`84 Code, § 9-1048)
§ 150.73 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits shall be based upon the total estimated cost of the
proposed work, including all sub- contracts if any, but in no case shall the
total estimated cost be less than the market value of similar completed work in
the city as determined by the appropriate inspector or inspectors. Permit fees
shall be as established by the Board and filed in the office of the Code
Enforcement Officer.
(`84 Code, § 9-1049)
CHAPTER 151: MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
   
151.01   Findings; purpose; authority
   
151.02   Scope
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Office of Housing Inspector created; powers and duties
   
151.05   Inspections
   
151.06   Preliminary investigations; notices; hearings
   
151.07   Dwelling unfit for human habitation
   
151.08   Dwellings not in compliance but not unfit for human habitation
   
151.09   Procedure after hearing; order
   
151.10   Failure to comply with order
   
151.11   Service of complaints and orders
   
151.12   Appeals
   
151.13   Alternative remedies
   
151.14   Conflict with other provisions
   
151.15   Violations
   
151.16   Validity
§ 151.01 FINDINGS; PURPOSE; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-441 it is hereby found and declared that there
exist in the city and its area of extraterritorial jurisdiction dwellings which
are unfit for human habitation due to dilapidation, defects increasing the
hazards of fire, accidents and other calamities, lack of ventilation, light and
sanitary facilities, and due to other conditions rendering such dwellings
unsafe and unsanitary, and dangerous and detrimental to the health, safety and
morals, and otherwise inimical to the welfare of the residents of the City of
Creedmoor.
   (B)   In order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city, as authorized by G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 6, it is the
purpose of this chapter to establish minimum standards of fitness for the
initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for human habitation, as
expressly authorized by G.S. § 160A-444.
   (C)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, under the authority of
G.S. § 160A-174, that there exist in the city dwellings which, although not
meeting the classification as unfit for human habitation, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for housing fitness as established herein and
therefore have present one or more conditions which are inimical to the public
health, safety and general welfare. Such conditions, if not corrected can lead
to deterioration and dilapidation of dwellings which render them unfit for
human habitation.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   This chapter is hereby declared to be remedial and shall be construed
to secure the beneficial interests and purposes thereof which are public
safety, health and general welfare through structural strength, stability,
sanitation, adequate light and ventilation and safety to life and property from
fire and other hazards incident to the construction, alteration, repair,
removal, demolition, use and occupancy of dwellings, apartment houses, rooming
houses or buildings, structures or premises used or intended for use as such.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing housing and
to all housing hereafter constructed within the city and its area of
extraterritorial jurisdiction. Portable, mobile or demountable buildings or
structures, including trailers, manufactured homes and mobile homes when used
or intended for use for housing within the jurisdiction, shall be subject to
the applicable provisions of this chapter. This chapter establishes minimum
requirements for the initial and continued occupancy of all buildings used for
human habitation and does not replace or modify requirements otherwise
established for the construction, repair, alteration or use of buildings,
equipment or facilities except as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to abandoned
structures which are found by the Board of Commissioners to be a health or
safety hazard as a result of the attraction of insects or rodents, conditions
creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions constituting a threat to children
or frequent use by vagrants as living quarters in the absence of sanitary
conditions.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever the
words DWELLING, DWELLING UNIT, ROOMING HOUSE, ROOMING UNIT or PREMISES are used
in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by the
words "or any part thereof".
   ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Any structure, whether designed and intended for
residential or other uses, which has been vacant or not in active use,
regardless of purpose or reason, for the past two-year period and which is
determined by the Housing Inspector to be unfit for human habitation or
occupancy based upon the standards as set forth in this chapter.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building which is located partly underground,
having access to light and air from windows located above the level of the
adjoining ground.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground having
inadequate access to light and air from windows located partly or wholly below
the level of the adjoining ground.
   DETERIORATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and can
be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum standards
established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its value, as
determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
   DILAPIDATED DWELLING. A dwelling that is unfit for human habitation and
cannot be repaired, altered or improved to comply with all of the minimum
standards established by this chapter, at a cost not in excess of 50% of its
value, as determined by finding of the Housing Inspector.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, manufactured home or mobile home, or part
thereof, used and occupied for human habitation or intended to be so used, and
includes any accessory buildings and structures and appurtenances belonging
thereto or usually enjoyed therewith, except that it does not include any
manufactured home or mobile home, which is used solely for a seasonal vacation
purpose.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Housing Inspector.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, heater rooms, foyers or communicating
corridors, closets and storage spaces.
   HOUSING INSPECTOR. The person appointed by the Board of Commissioners to
carry out the administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests in such number as to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or welfare of the occupants or to the public.
   MANUFACTURED HOME (MOBILE HOME).  A structure as defined in G.S. § 143-145
(7).
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations and corporations who have
interests of record in a dwelling and any who are in possession thereof.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Any housing authority or any officer who is in charge of
any department or branch of the government of the city, county, or state
relating to health, fire, building regulations, or other activities concerning
dwellings in the city.
   ROOMING HOUSE.  Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three or
more persons who are not husband and wife, son or daughter, mother or father or
sister or brother of, the owner or operator.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group or rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or
eating purposes.
   RUBBISH.  Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage and
ashes, and the term shall include, but not be limited to, paper, rags, cartons,
boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin
cans, metals, mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under the control of, the
owner or operator.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.04 OFFICE OF HOUSING INSPECTOR CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, the office of Housing Inspector is hereby created. The Housing
Inspector shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners, and shall have such
powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and effectuate the
purposes and provisions of this chapter including, without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted, the
following powers:
   (A)   Investigations. To investigate the dwelling and building conditions in
the city in order to determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human
habitation and dangerous, being guided in such examination of dwellings and
buildings by the requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Oaths, witnesses, etc. To administer oaths and affirmations and to
examine witnesses and receive evidence.
   (C)   Right of entry. To enter upon and within premises and dwellings for
the purpose of making examinations and investigations; provided, that such
entries shall be made in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
   (D)   Warrants; citations, etc. To swear criminal warrants, issue civil
citations and to take such other actions as may be necessary to carry out the
enforcement procedures of this chapter.
   (E)   Delegation of functions, etc. To delegate any of his or her functions
and powers under this chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may
designate.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.05 INSPECTIONS.
   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the Housing
Inspector, upon proper identification, is hereby authorized to enter, examine
and survey at all reasonable times all dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, rooming units an premises, including abandoned structures. The owners
or occupants or every dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, or rooming house,
or the person in charge thereof, shall give the Housing Inspector free access
to such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house or rooming unit, and its
premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
give the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of
such dwelling or dwelling unit, and its premises, at all reasonable times for
the purpose of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect
compliance with the provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.06 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATIONS; NOTICES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Whenever a petition is filed with the Housing Inspector by a public
authority or by at least five residents of the city charging that any dwelling
is unfit for human habitation or whenever it appears to the Housing Inspector
(on his or her own motion) that any dwelling is unfit for human habitation, the
Housing Inspector shall, if his or her preliminary investigation discloses a
basis for such charges, issue and cause to be served upon the owner and parties
in interest in such dwellings a complaint stating the charges in that respect
and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the Housing
Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a place within the city therein
fixed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of the
complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in
hearings before the Housing Inspector.
   (B)   Upon the issuance of a complaint and notice of hearing pursuant to
this section, the Inspector may cause the filing of a notice of lis pendens,
with a copy of the complaint and notice of hearing attached thereto, in the
Office of the Clerk of Superior Court of Granville County, to be indexed and
cross-indexed in accordance with the indexing procedures of the North Carolina
General Statutes. The Inspector shall cause a copy of the notice of lis pendens
to be served upon the owners and parties in interest in the dwelling at the
time of filing in accordance with G.S. § 160A-445, as applicable. Upon
compliance with the requirements of any order issued based upon such complaint
and hearing, the Inspector shall direct the Clerk of Superior Court to cancel
the notice of lis pendens.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.07 DWELLING UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   (A)   The Housing Inspector shall determine that a dwelling is unfit for
human habitation if he or she finds that any one of the following conditions
exist in such dwelling:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to such an extent as to render the dwelling unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the dwelling
unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people in
the city.
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the city.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a definite health or safety hazard.
      (10)   Lack of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public
sewer or other approved sewage disposal system, the lack of either one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation. For the purposes of this
standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the water
supply has been "cut off" because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise
or if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the
tap.
   (B)   In addition to the ten conditions stated above, any one of which
renders a dwelling unfit for human habitation, the Housing Inspector shall
determine that a dwelling is unfit for human habitation if he finds that a
dwelling fails to fully comply with seven or more of the following enumerated
standards of dwelling fitness:
   STRUCTURAL STANDARDS
      (1)   Structural integrity. Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills,
joists, rafters or other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle,
shall not be rotted, deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or
cracks which might admit rodents.
      (2)   Supports. Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members
and strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      (3)   Foundations. Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other
foundation supports shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      (4)   Steps. Steps, stairs, landings, porches or other parts or
appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not fail or
collapse.
      (5)   Egress. Adequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic
shall be provided.
      (6)   Interior materials. Interior walls and ceilings of all rooms,
closets and hallways shall be furnished of suitable materials which will, by
use of reasonable household methods, promote sanitation and cleanliness, and
shall be maintained in such a manner so as to enable the occupants to maintain
reasonable privacy between various spaces.
      (7)   Weatherization. The roof, flashings, exterior walls, basement
walls, floors and all doors and windows exposed to the weather shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be weather and watertight.
      (8)   Chimneys.  There shall be no chimneys or parts thereof which are
defective, deteriorated or in danger of falling, or in such condition or
location as to constitute a fire hazard.
      (9)   Floors. There shall be no use of the ground for floors, or wood
floors on the ground.
   PLUMBING STANDARDS
      (10)   Facilities. Each dwelling unit shall contain not less than a
kitchen sink, lavatory, tub or shower, water closet, and an adequate supply of
both cold water and hot water. All water shall be supplied through an approved
pipe distribution system connected to a potable water supply. For the purposes
of this standard, a dwelling is not connected to a potable water supply if the
water supply has been "cut off" because of non-payment of the water bill or
otherwise or if the system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable
water to the tap.
      (11)   Maintenance. All plumbing fixtures shall meet the standards of the
Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in good
working order.
      (12)   Accessible. All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within
the dwelling and be accessible to the occupants of the same. The water closet
and tub or shower shall be located in a room or rooms affording privacy to the
user.
   HEATING STANDARDS
      (13)   Generally. Every dwelling shall have facilities for providing heat
in accordance with either division (a) or (b) below. Such facilities shall be
maintained in a state of good repair and good working order.
         (a)   Central and electrical heating systems. Every central or
electric heating system shall be of sufficient capacity so as to heat all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling to
which it is connected with a minimum temperature of 70 degrees Fahrenheit
measured at a point three feet above the floor during average winter
conditions.
         (b)   Other heating facilities. Where a central or electric heating
system is not provided, each dwelling shall be provided with sufficient
electrical receptacles, fireplaces, chimneys, flues or gas vents whereby
heating appliances may be connected so as to heat all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and water closet compartments with a minimum temperature of 70
degrees Fahrenheit measured three feet above the floor during average winter
conditions.
   ELECTRICAL STANDARDS
      (14)   Wiring. Every dwelling shall be wired for electric lights and
convenience receptacles. Every habitable room shall contain at least two floor
or wall type electrical convenience receptacles, connected in such manner as
determined by the Electrical Code. There shall be installed in every bathroom,
water closet room, laundry room and furnace room at least one supplied ceiling
or wall type electric light fixture. In the event wall or ceiling light
fixtures are not provided in any habitable room, then each such habitable room
shall contain at least three floor or wall type electric convenience
receptacles.
      (15)   Hall lights. Every public hall and stairway in every multiple
dwelling shall be adequately lighted by electric lights at all times when
natural light is not sufficient.
      (16)   Maintenance. All fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall
be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the Electrical Code.
   VENTILATION STANDARDS
      (17)   Generally.  Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight facing directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area,
measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 10% of the floor area
of such room. Whenever walls or other portions of structures face a window of
any such room and such light obstructions are located less than five feet from
the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, such a
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and shall not be
included as contributing to the required minimum total window area. Whenever
the only window in a room is a skylight type window in the top of such a room,
the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least 15% of the total
floor area of such room.
      (18)   Habitable rooms. Every habitable room shall have at least one
window or skylight which can easily be opened, or such other device as will
adequately ventilate the room. The total openable window area in every
habitable room, shall be equal to at least 45% of the minimum window area size
or minimum skylight type window size as required, or shall have other approved
equivalent ventilation.
      (19)   Bathroom and water closet room. Every bathroom equipped with more
than one water closet compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation
requirements for habitable rooms.
   SPACE, USE AND LOCATION STANDARDS
      (20)   Room sizes. Every dwelling unit shall contain at least the minimum
room size in each habitable room as required by the Residential Building Code.
(Floor area shall be calculated on the basis of habitable room area. However,
closet area and wall area within the dwelling may count for not more than 10%
of the required habitable floor area. The floor area of any part of any room
where the ceiling height is less than four and one-half feet shall not be
considered as a part of the floor area in computing the total area of the room
to determine maximum permissible occupancy.) Every dwelling unit shall contain
at least 150 square feet of habitable floor area for the first occupant, at
least 100 square feet of additional habitable area for each of the next three
occupants, and at least 75 square feet of additional habitable floor area for
each additional occupant. In every dwelling unit and in every rooming unit,
every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at
least 70 square feet of floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of
floor area for each occupant 12 years of age and over, and at least 35 square
feet of floor area for each occupant under 12 years of age.
      (21)   Ceiling height. At least one-half of the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet and six
inches.
      (22)   Cellar. No cellar shall be used for living purposes unless:
         (a)   The floor and walls are substantially watertight;
         (b)   The total window area, total openable window area and ceiling
height are equal to those required for a habitable room;
         (c)   The required minimum window area of every habitable room is
entirely above the grade adjoining such window area, except where the windows
face a stairwell, window well or access way.
   SAFE AND SANITARY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS
      (23)   Exterior foundation, walls and roofs. Every foundation wall,
exterior wall and exterior roof shall be substantially weather-tight and
rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; shall be
capable of affording privacy; shall be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon. Every exterior wall
shall be protected with paint or other protective covering to prevent the
entrance or penetration of moisture or the weather.
      (24)   Interior floors, walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall
and ceiling shall be substantially rodent-proof; shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair; and shall be safe to use and capable of supporting
the load which normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
      (25)   Windows and doors. Every window, exterior door, basement or cellar
door and hatchway shall be substantially weather tight, water tight and rodent
proof; and shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
      (26)   Stairs porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenances thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
      (27)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every bathroom and kitchen floor
surface and water closet compartment floor surface shall be constructed and
maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as to permit such
floor to be easily kept in sound condition and good repair.
      (28)   Supplied facilities. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment
or utility which is required under this chapter shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
      (29)   Drainage. Every yard shall be properly graded so as to obtain
thorough drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water.
   INSECT, RODENT AND INFESTATION CONTROL STANDARDS
      (30)   Screens. For protection against mosquitoes, flies and other
insects every dwelling shall have:
         (a)   Supplied and installed screens on every door opening leading
directly from the dwelling to outdoor space. Except, that sliding doors, doors
with self closing devices, doors on mobile homes with self closing devices and
doors that open into rooms of living spaces that are artificially ventilated or
air conditioned are exempt from this provision.
         (b)   Supplied and installed screens on every window or other device
with an opening to outdoor space, except that this requirement shall not apply
for any room or rooms of a dwelling that are ventilated year round with an
operable and installed heating and air conditioning system.
      (31)   Rodent control. Every basement or cellar window used or intended
to be used for ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might
provide an entry for rodents, shall be supplied with screens installed or such
other approved device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
      (32)   Infestation. Every dwelling shall be maintained in a manner to be
free of any infestations of insects, rodents or other pests. Every occupant of
a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises; and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more
than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination whenever his
dwelling unit is the only one infested. Whenever infestation exists in two or
more of the dwelling units in any dwelling or in the shared or public parts of
any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner.
      (33)   Rubbish storage and disposal.  Every dwelling shall be supplied
with approved containers and covers for storage of rubbish as may be required
by city ordinances, and the owner, operator or agent in control of such
dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      (34)   Garbage storage and disposal. Every dwelling shall be supplied
with an approved garbage disposal facility, which may be an adequate mechanical
garbage disposal unit (mechanical sink grinder) in each dwelling unit or an
incinerator unit, to be approved by the Inspector, in the structure for the use
of the occupants of each dwelling unit, or an approved outside garbage
container as may be required by city ordinances.
      (35)   Smoke detector systems. Every dwelling unit shall be provided with
an approved listed smoke detector installed in accordance with the
manufacturer's recommendations and listing. When activated, the detector shall
provide an audible alarm. The detector shall be tested in accordance with and
meet the requirements of UL 217, Single and Multiple Station Smoke Detectors.
   ROOMING HOUSE STANDARDS
All of the provisions of this chapter, and all of the minimum standards and
requirements of this chapter shall be applicable to rooming houses, and to
every person who operates a rooming house or who occupies or lets to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except as provided in the
following divisions:
      (36)   Water closet, hand lavatory and bath facilities. At least one
water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, properly connected to an
approved water and sewer system and in good working condition, shall be
supplied for each four rooms within a rooming house wherever such facilities
are shared. All such facilities shall be located within the residence building
served, shall be directly accessible from a common hall or passageway and shall
not be more than one story removed from any of the persons sharing such
facilities. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with
hot and cold water at all times. Such required facilities shall not be located
in a cellar.
      (37)   Minimum floor area for sleeping purposes. Every room occupied for
sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least 70 square feet of
floor area, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one
occupant shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor area for each occupant
12 years of age and over and at least 35 square feet of floor area for each
occupant under 12 years of age.
      (38)   Sanitary conditions. The operator of every rooming house shall be
responsible for the sanitary maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and
for the sanitary maintenance of every other part of the rooming house; and
shall be further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire
premises where the entire structure or building within which the rooming house
is contained is leased or occupied by the operator.
      (39)   Sanitary facilities. Every water closet, flush urinal, lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower required by standard (36) above shall be located
within the rooming house and within a room or rooms which afford privacy and
are separate from the habitable rooms, and which are accessible from a common
hall and without going outside the rooming house or through any other room
therein.
[Note: Full compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated
standard is not complied with by a particular dwelling then that dwelling has
failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard. For example, in regard to
standard (10), if all standards are met in a dwelling except that a supply of
hot water is not provided then the dwelling fails to fully comply with standard
(10).]
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.08 DWELLINGS NOT IN COMPLIANCE BUT NOT UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION.
   In any case where the Housing Inspector determines that a dwelling fails to
fully comply with one or more, but less than seven of the above enumerated
standards of dwelling fitness, such dwelling shall not be found to be unfit for
human habitation and shall not be subject to the procedures and remedies as
provided for in this chapter for dwellings unfit for human habitation. Each
such failure or noncompliance, however, shall constitute a violation of the
terms of this chapter and shall subject the violator to the penalties and
enforcement procedures, civil or criminal or both, as provided in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances. In making the determination as described in
this section, the Housing Inspector shall not be required to make notice and
hold the hearing as called for in § 151.06, but the Housing Inspector may do so
if the determination of the severity and classification of dwelling fitness is
not clear to the Housing Inspector upon preliminary investigation. Violation of
this section may constitute an infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
§ 151.09 PROCEDURE AFTER HEARING; ORDER.
   (A)   If, after notice and hearing, the Housing Inspector determines that
the dwelling under consideration is unfit for human habitation in accordance
with the standards set forth above, he or she shall state in writing his or her
findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause to
be served upon the owner thereof an order:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling can be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified, to repair, alter or improve the dwelling in
order to render it fit for human habitation or to vacate and close the dwelling
as a human habitation, based upon the Housing Inspector's standards for closing
dwellings; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a cost of less than 50% of the value of the dwelling, requiring the
owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such
dwelling.
   (B)   If, after notice and hearing the Housing Inspector determines that the
dwelling under consideration is not unfit for human habitation but is not in
full compliance with one or more standards of dwelling fitness as set forth
above, he or she may proceed with the enforcement procedures as provided in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances, civil or criminal or both.
   (C)   Whenever a determination is made pursuant to divisions (A)(1) or (A)
(2) of this section that a dwelling must be vacated and closed, or removed or
demolished, under the provisions of the section, notice of the order shall be
given by first-class mail to any organization involved in providing or
restoring dwellings for affordable housing that has filed a written request for
such notices. A minimum period of 45 days from the mailing of such notice shall
be given before removal or demolition by action of the Inspector, to allow the
opportunity for any organization to negotiate with the owner to make repairs,
lease, or purchase the property for the purpose of providing affordable
housing. The Inspector shall certify the mailing of the notices, and the
certifications shall be conclusive in the absence of fraud. Only an
organization that has filed a written request for such notices may raise the
issue of failure to mail such notices, and the sole remedy shall be an order
requiring the Inspector to wait 45 days before causing removal or demolition.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.10 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to vacate and close the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause the dwelling to be repaired, altered or improved or to be
vacated and closed.
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful." Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter or improve
or to remove or demolish the dwelling, the Housing Inspector may:
      (1)   Cause such dwelling to be vacated and removed or demolished.
      (2)   Cause to be posted on the main entrance of any such dwelling, a
placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for human habitation;
the use or occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and
unlawful." Occupation of a building so posted shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   The duties of the Housing Inspector set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
shall not be exercised until the Board of Commissioners shall have by ordinance
ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
chapter with respect to the particular property or properties which the Housing
Inspector shall have found to be unfit for human habitation and which property
or properties shall be described in the ordinance. No such ordinance shall be
adopted to require demolition of a dwelling until the owner has first been
given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the Housing
Standards. For the purposes of this division, a period of 90 days following the
date of the Housing Inspector's order shall constitute a reasonable
opportunity. This ordinance shall be recorded in the Office of the Register of
Deeds in the county wherein the property or properties are located and shall be
indexed in the name of the property owner in the grantor index.
   (D)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Housing Inspector shall
be a lien against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which
lien shall be filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for
special assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10. If the dwelling
is removed or demolished by the Housing Inspector, he or she shall sell the
materials of the dwelling, and any personal property, fixture or appurtenances
found in or attached to the dwelling, and shall credit the proceeds of the sale
against the cost of the removal or demolition and any balance remaining shall
be deposited in the Superior Court by the Housing Inspector, shall be secured
in a manner directed by the Court, and shall be disbursed by the Court to the
persons found to be entitled thereto by final order of the decree of the Court.
   (E)   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a dwelling,
the Housing Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the city to remove
such occupant. The action to vacate the dwelling shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties-defendant any persons occupying such dwelling. The Clerk of Superior
Court shall issue a summons requiring the defendant to appear before a
magistrate at a certain time, date and place not to exceed ten days from the
issuance of the summons to answer the complaint. The summons and complaint
shall be served as provided in G.S. § 42-29. The summons shall be returned
according to its tenor, and if on its return it appears to have been duly
served, and if at the hearing the Housing Inspector produces the certified copy
of an ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to division (C)
authorizing the Housing Inspector to proceed to vacate the occupied dwelling,
the magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and
that all persons be removed. The judgement ordering that the dwelling be
vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for summary
ejectment entered under G.S. § 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered
hereunder by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. § 7A-228, and the
execution of such judgement may be stayed as provided in G.S. § 7A-227. An
action to remove an occupant of a dwelling who is a tenant of the owner may not
be in the nature of a summary ejectment proceeding pursuant to this division
unless such occupant was served with notice, at least 30 days before the filing
of the summary ejectment proceeding, that the Board of Commissioners has
ordered the Housing Inspector to proceed to exercise his duties under divisions
(A), (B) and (C) of this section to vacate and close or remove and demolish the
dwelling.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.11 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Complaints or orders issued by the Housing Inspector shall be served
upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail. When service
is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or order may
also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if the
registered or certified mail is unclaimed or refused, but the regular mail is
not returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular
mail is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises affected.
   (B)   If the identities of any owners or the whereabouts of persons are
unknown and cannot be ascertained by the inspector in the exercise of
reasonable diligence, or, if the owners are known but have refused to accept
service by registered or certified mail, and the inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, then the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or
other persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general
circulation in the city at least not later than the time at which personal
service would be required under the provisions of this chapter. When service is
made by publication, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises thereby affected.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.12 APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment is hereby appointed as the Housing Appeals
Board to which appeals from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may
be taken. Except where this chapter provides for different rules or procedures,
the Board of Adjustment acting as the Housing Appeals Board shall follow its
rules of procedure, which may be amended to provide specifically for this
function.
   (B)   An appeal from any decision or order of the Housing Inspector may be
taken by any person aggrieved thereby or by any officer, board or commission of
the city. Any appeal from the Housing Inspector shall be taken within ten days
from the rendering of the decision or service of the order by filing with the
Housing Inspector and with the Board a notice of appeal which shall specify the
grounds upon which the appeal is based. Upon the filing of any notice of
appeal, the Housing Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the decision appealed from was made.
When an appeal is from a decision of the Housing Inspector refusing to allow
the person aggrieved thereby to do any such act, his or her decision shall
remain in force until modified or reversed. When any appeal is from a decision
of the Housing Inspector requiring the person aggrieved to do any act, the
appeal shall have the effect of suspending the requirement until the hearing by
the Board, unless the Housing Inspector certifies to the Board after the notice
of appeal is filed with him or her, that because of facts stated in the
certificate (a copy of which shall be furnished the appellant), a suspension of
his or her requirement would cause imminent peril to life or property. In that
case the requirement shall not be suspended except by a restraining order,
which may be granted for due cause shown upon not less than one day's written
notice to the Housing Inspector, by the Board, or by a court of record upon
petition made pursuant to division (E) of this section.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, shall give due notice to the parties, and shall render its decision
within a reasonable time. Any party may appear in person or by agent or
attorney. The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
decision or order appealed from, and may make any decision and order that in
its opinion ought to be made in the matter, and to that end it shall have all
the powers of the Housing Inspector, but the concurring vote of four-fifths of
the members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse or modify any decision
or order of the Housing Inspector. The Board shall have power also in passing
upon appeals, when practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships would result
from carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, to adapt the application
of the chapter to the necessities of the case to the end that the spirit of the
chapter shall be observed, public safety and welfare secured, and substantial
justice done.
   (D)   Every decision of the Board shall be subject to review by proceedings
in the nature of certiorari instituted within 15 days of the decision of the
Board, but not otherwise.
   (E)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued by the Housing Inspector or a
decision rendered by the Board may petition the Superior Court for an
injunction, restraining the Housing Inspector from carrying out the order or
decision and the Court may, upon such petition, issue a temporary injunction
restraining the Housing Inspector pending a final disposition of the cause. The
petition shall be filed within 30 days after issuance of the order or rendering
of the decision. Hearings shall be had by the Court on a petition within 20
days, and shall be given preference over other matters on the Court's calendar.
The Court shall hear and determine the issues raised and shall enter such final
order or decree as law and justice may require. It shall not be necessary to
file bond in any amount before obtaining a temporary injunction under this
division.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.13 ALTERNATIVE REMEDIES.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter nor any of its provisions shall be construed
to impair or limit in any way the power of the city to define and declare
nuisances and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or
otherwise nor shall enforcement of one remedy provided herein prevent the
enforcement of any other remedy or remedies provided herein or in other
ordinances or laws. In addition to the remedies provided for herein, any
violation of the terms of this chapter shall subject the violator to the
penalties and remedies, either criminal or civil or both, as set forth in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   No dwelling shall be hereafter erected, altered, moved, or changed in
occupancy without a certificate of occupancy. In any case where the Housing
Inspector, after notice and hearing as required herein, finds that a dwelling
or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit until
such time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation. In
addition, in any case where the Housing Inspector, after preliminary
investigation as provided for herein, concludes, based upon that investigation,
that a dwelling or dwelling unit is unfit for human habitation and believes
that the occupancy of such dwelling or dwelling unit could cause imminent peril
to life or property from fire or other hazards, he or she shall withhold
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for such dwelling or dwelling unit until
such time that he or she determines that it is fit for human habitation.
   (C)   If any dwelling is erected, constructed, altered, repaired, converted,
maintained, or used in violation of this chapter or of any valid order or
decision of the Housing Inspector or Board made pursuant to any ordinance
adopted under authority of this chapter, the Housing Inspector may institute
any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or occupancy, to restrain, correct or
abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the dwellings, or to prevent
any illegal act, conduct or use in or about the premises of the dwelling.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.14 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
city, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the city's jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.15 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failures to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter above, it shall be unlawful for the owner
of any dwelling or dwelling unit to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or
improve the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the
same, upon order of the Housing Inspector duly made and served as herein
provided, within the time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the
owner of any dwelling, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant
to §
151.09, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
§ 151.16 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Board of Commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section, subsection,
clause, and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2010-O-18, passed 12-14-10)
CHAPTER 152: LAND DEVELOPMENT
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The ordinance titled “Creedmoor Development Ordinance,” shall be the Land
Development Ordinance for the city and the areas within its extraterritorial
jurisdiction. The Creedmoor Development Ordinance, and all future amendments,
attached to Ord. 2012-O-04, passed 6-26-12 is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2012-O-04, passed 6-26-12)
CHAPTER 153: RESERVED
CHAPTER 154: RESERVED
CHAPTER 155: RESERVED
CHAPTER 156: COMMUNITY APPEARANCE
Sections
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Public nuisance
   
156.03   Prohibition of property blight
   
156.04   General conditions
   
156.05   Definitions
Property Blight
   
156.15   Property blight
   
156.16   Unsecured building or structure
   
156.17   Abandoned construction
   
156.18   Attractive nuisance
   
156.19   State of disrepair
   
156.20   Exterior property conditions
   
156.21   Single-family dwelling landscaping
   
156.22   Multi-family dwelling landscaping requirements
   
156.23   Non residential landscaping requirements
   
156.24   Land maintenance weeds
   
156.25   Parkstrips
   
156.26   Inadequate solid waste management
   
156.27   Outdoor storage
   
156.28   Hazardous conditions
Parking, Storing or Maintaining Certain Items
   
156.40   On property designated or used for a residence prohibited
   
156.41   Special mobile equipment
   
156.42   Motor vehicles and boats
   
156.43   Household items
   
156.44   Boxes, lumber, dirt and other debris
   
156.45   Activities prohibited on property designated or used as a residence
   
156.46   Parking restrictions
Cross reference:
   Abandoned, nuisance and junked vehicles, see §
90.01
   Hazardous substances, see §§
95.01 et seq.
   Minimum housing standards, see §§151.01 et seq.
   Tractor trailer parking in residential districts, see §
72.22
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety
and welfare by requiring a minimum level of maintenance of private property to
protect the livability, appearance and social and economic stability of the
city and to protect the public from the health and safety hazards and the
impairments of property values that result from the neglect and deterioration
of property.
   (B)   Further, the city has unique residential and commercial properties and
neighborhoods that define the character and heritage of the city by their
distinct architectural and J structural appearance. The city recognizes the
importance of maintaining and preserving such properties in order to preserve
the city's heritage and physical appearance by adopting reasonable standards of
maintenance and property appearance as contained in this section.
(Ord. 2006-O-23, passed 9-26-06)
§ 156.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any property upon which there exists property blight as set forth in the
provisions of this chapter is hereby declared and determined to be a public
nuisance.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.03 PROHIBITION OF PROPERTY BLIGHT.
   (A)   No person, whether as owner, agent, manager, operator, lessee, tenant,
sublessee, or occupant in possession of a property, shall maintain a blighted
property or cause or permit property to be maintained as a blighted property.
   (B)   No person, whether as owner, agent, manager, operator, lessee,
sublessee, tenant or occupant of a property, shall take any action or allow any
action to be taken at that property in violation of any provision of this
chapter or any order issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.04 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   The presence of any one or more of the following conditions on property
constitutes property blight:
   (A)   Any condition that is detrimental to the public health, safety or
general welfare or that constitutes a public nuisance.
   (B)   Any condition of deterioration or disrepair that creates a substantial
adverse impact on neighboring properties.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOAT. A boat of any kind, whether self-propelled or propelled by any other
means, including sailing vessels and all other structures adapted to be
navigated on water from place to place for recreational purposes or for the
transportation of merchandise or persons.
   CAMPER SHELL. A vehicle accessory designed to be mounted upon a motor
vehicle and to provide facilities for human habitation, camping purposes or
storage.
   DECORATIVE LANDSCAPING. Decorative non-live materials used to cover dirt in
a garden or yard, such as rocks, gravel, or bark and does not include pavement
with asphalt, cement or any other impervious surface.
   GRAFFITI. An unauthorized inscription, word, figure, mark, design or other
inscribed material that is written, marked, etched, scratched, drawn, or
painted on a surface.
   HOUSEHOLD ITEM. Any item, including any part of the item, typically used in
the interior of a dwelling. By way of example and not limitation, the term
“household item” includes washing machines, sinks, stoves, heaters, boilers,
tanks, mattresses, sofas, couches or futons, upholstered chairs, and indoor
carpets.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  A passenger vehicle, truck, recreational vehicle,
motorcycle, motor scooter, golf cart, or other similar self-propelled vehicle.
MOTOR VEHICLE does not mean a motorized wheelchair, bicycle, tricycle or
quadricycle.
   PARKSTRIP.  The area along public streets and avenues between the curb line
(or edge of the roadway if no curb line is present) and the sidewalk line (or
property line if no sidewalk is present).
   PASSENGER VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle designed, used and maintained primarily
for the transportation of persons for noncommercial purposes. A PASSENGER
VEHICLE does not include a motor vehicle designed and equipped for human
habitation.
   POLLUTED WATER. Water that contains any bacterial growth, including algae,
remains of rubbish, fecal matter, untreated sewage, refuse, debris, papers, or
any other foreign matter or material that, because of its nature or location,
constitutes an unhealthy or unsafe condition.
   SEVENTY-TWO HOURS. For purposes of this chapter, an item is unlawfully
parked, kept or stored on a piece of property in excess of 72 hours, when all
of the following conditions have been met:
      (1)   The item is located on the front or side yard of the property or on
a street immediately adjacent to that front or side yard; and
      (2)   That item is visible from a street; and
      (3)   That item has not been removed from the visible front or side yard
of the property or the street immediately adjacent to that front or side yard
to an area that is not visible from a public street for at least 24 consecutive
hours during a 72 consecutive hour period.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10; Am. Ord. 2021-O-19, passed 11-1-21)
PROPERTY BLIGHT
§ 156.15 PROPERTY BLIGHT.
   The existence of any one or more of the conditions or activities described
in this subchapter constitutes property blight.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.16 UNSECURED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Any vacant or abandoned building or structure or portions thereof,
shall be secured at all points of ingress and egress and maintained against
unauthorized entry at all times. Any dangerous, deteriorated, abandoned,
partially destroyed or urifinished building constitutes property blight. A
building or structure is unsecured when either of the following conditions
exist:
      (1)   The building or structure is inhabited, occupied or used without
the consent of the owner or the agent of the owner; or
      (2)   Unauthorized persons can readily gain entry to the building or
structure without the consent of the owner or the agent of the owner.
   (B)   Any wood, metal or other material used for securing a vacated or
abandoned building must be of a material similar to, and consistent with, the
color, texture and character of the vacated or abandoned building.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.17 ABANDONED CONSTRUCTION.
   A partially constructed, reconstructed or demolished building or structure
upon which work has been abandoned constitutes property blight. Work is deemed
abandoned when there is no valid current building or demolition permit for the
work or when there has not been any substantial work on the building or
structure for a period of six months or more.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.18 ATTRACTIVE NUISANCE.
   Any property that is unsecured that constitutes an attraction to children or
a harbor for vagrants, criminals or other unauthorized persons, or is in a
condition such that persons can resort thereto for the purpose of committing a
nuisance or unlawful act constitutes property blight.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.19 STATE OF DISREPAIR.
   (A)   Any building or structure that is in a state of disrepair or where an
owner has failed to property maintain, repair or replace exposed exterior
windows, doors, canopies, awnings, roof, chimneys, painted surfaces, fences,
screen walls, foundations, outdoor stairs, porches and railings, constitutes
property blight. A building or structure is in a state of disrepair when any of
the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Exterior walls or roof coverings have become deteriorated, do not
provide adequate weather protection, or show evidence of the presence of
termite infestation or dry rot; or
      (2)   Broken or missing windows or doors that create a hazardous
condition or a potential attraction to trespassers; or
      (3)   Building exteriors, walls, fences, retaining walls, driveways, or
walkways that are broken or deteriorated to the extent that the disrepair is
visible from a street or neighboring properties, or
      (4)   Any part of the property, including any building or structure
located on the property, that is visible from a street or neighboring property
that is defaced with graffiti.
   (B)   NOTE: Deteriorated above refers to exterior appearance that has wood
and painted surfaces not in good condition, significantly pealing or parts of
the wall missing; and brick or other surface materials not in good condition
with significant deterioration or missing surfaces.
   (C)   In addition to the above, all premises shall be structurally sound and
impervious to moisture and weather elements.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.20 EXTERIOR PROPERTY CONDITIONS.
   The existence of any one or more of the following exterior property
conditions constitutes property blight:
   (A)   The property contains overgrown, diseased, dead or decayed trees,
weeds or other vegetation that:
      (1)   Constitutes a fire hazard or other condition that is dangerous to
the public health, safety, welfare; or
      (2)   Creates the potential for the harboring of rats, vennin, vector, or
other similar nuisances; or
      (3)   Substantially detracts from the aesthetic and property values of
neighboring properties; or
      (4)   Is overgrown onto a public right-of-way at least 12 inches; or
      (5)   Is completely dead, over twelve inches in height, and covers more
than fifty percent of the front or side yard visible from any street.
   (B)   Or, that the property fails to comply with applicable development
permit requirements with respect to any landscaping requirements.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.21 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A residential dwelling(s) subject to a development permit shall be
landscaped in accordance with the requirements of the development permit.
   (B)   Subject to the paved surface limitations set forth in this section, a
residential dwelling(s), not subject to a development permit, shall have
landscaping installed in the non-paved portions of the front and side yards
that are visible from any street. For purpose of this subsection only,
“landscaping” means live trees, shrubs, lawns, other live plant materials or
decorative landscaping have been installed.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.22 MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A multi-family dwelling subject to a development permit shall be
landscaped in accordance with the requirements of the development permit.
   (B)   Subject to the paved surface limitations contained in this section, a
multi-family dwelling, not subject to a development permit, shall have
landscaping installed in the non-paved portions of the front and side yards
that are visible from any street.
   (C)   For purpose of this subsection only, “landscaping” means that at least
50% of the non-paved portions of the front and side yards that are visible from
any street shall be covered with live trees, shrubs, lawns, or other live plant
materials, or shall have decorative landscaping installed.
   (D)   Failure to meet the landscaping requirements of this section
constitutes property blight.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.23 NON RESIDENTIAL LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A non residential building or property shall be landscaped in
accordance with the requirements of the approved site plan or land use permit.
   (B)   All required landscaping shall be maintained in such a manner to
assure healthy plant growth while enhancing the grounds. This should include
weeding, edging, watering, removal of dead and/or unattractive plant materials
and general clean-up of the grounds.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.24 LAND MAINTENANCE AND WEEDS.
   (A)   Any landscaping, visible from public property, or from a public
street, that is dead, significantly damaged, or characterized by uncontrolled
growth, or presents a deteriorated or slum-like appearance, shall be removed
and disposed in a timely manner.
   (B)   No owner or occupant of land shall allow or permit trees, shrubs or
plant growth to impede, obstruct, or interfere with vehicular or pedestrian
passage on any street, sidewalk, or alley or interfere with the visibility of
passing traffic or obstruct traffic control devices.
   (C)   No owner or occupant of a parcel of land shall allow weeds or grass to
reach a height of 12 inches or more.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.25 PARKSTRIPS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to require the responsible
party to keep the parkstrip, public sidewalks, right-of-way, drainage swales,
grass strips, maintained and unnecessarily obstructed.
   (B)   Responsible party. The responsible party including but not limited to;
property owner, lessee,
tenant, or occupant of real property abutting the parkstrip.
   (C)   Lots which are considered in a natural state (§
54.03 Definitions) are not responsible for parkstrip maintenance.
   (D)   Parkstrip ordinance applies to streets within the City of Creedmoor.
   (E)   Damage to persons, persons property, city equipment, city
infrastructure caused by improper
maintenance is at the cost of the responsible parties.
   (F)   Plant material.
      (1)   The parkstrip shall be covered with plant material, including turf
grass and/or deciduous
trees.
      (2)   Turf grass shall be controlled so it does not exceed 12 inches in
height as provided in §
156.24(C). This measurements supersedes previous measurements pertaining to
parkstrips.
      (3)   Deciduous trees are allowed in the parkstrip.
   (G)   Other material. For the purpose of soil stabilization, landscape rock,
one to three inches in diameter, may be used but shall not spill onto the
sidewalk or street and shall be installed flush with adjacent sidewalk or curb
to prevent trip hazards.
   (H)   Maintenance.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the responsible party to ensure
that the parkstrip abutting the property is kept clear of dirt, grass, weeds,
mud, trash, debris and vegetation of any kind to prevent a hazard to the
public.
      (2)   The responsible party that has a drainage swale running along the
street that abuts the responsible party's property shall mow, trim, and
otherwise properly maintain such swale so that it can continue to serve its
proper drainage function.
      (3)   Plant material shall not be allowed to overhang or encroach upon
the sidewalk, curb, or street (Development Ordinance § 11.13 Hazardous Trees,
Ord. 2016-0-18, Amended 9-20-2016).
      (4)   A three-foot radius clear space shall be maintained around the
circumference of fire hydrants, except as otherwise required or approved.
   (I)   Weather event. The responsible party whose property abuts a paved
sidewalk, shall remove snow, hail, sleet and other similar accumulation from
such within 48 hours after the accumulation ceases to fall.
   (J)   Prohibitions on encroachments purpose. These encroachments are
prohibited due to the potential for causing vehicle damage and the increase in
difficulty to maintain and install public improvements.
   (K)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Structural encroachments. Retaining walls, fences, steps, boulders,
concrete or masonry pillars, and other similar structural encroachments are
prohibited in the parkstrip.
      (2)   Permanent sport structures. No permanent placement of basketball
goal, recreation structures or other similar items.
      (3)   Exterior decorative decor; including but not limited to brick
columns, fountains, permanent (immobile) planters, lighting, birdbaths,
decorative edging or borders, lawn ornaments, and fencing.
      (4)   The relocation of snow or ice from the parkstrip to the street is
prohibited as it impedes the normal movement of traffic on the street.
Additionally, it shall be unlawful for any person to relocated yard waste,
grass clippings, leaves, sediment, trash, or debris of any kind into the storm
drainage system of the city, including any streets, storm drains, ditches,
swales, streams, lakes, culverts, rights-of-way, dedicated easements, or in any
other area where it might impede the flow of water through the storm drainage
system of the city (§
96.09 Debris in Stormwater Drainage System).
      (5)   (a)   Mailboxes and/or mailbox clusters that do not meet or Follow
USPS standards. Replacement or new installation of mailboxes is limited to
mailboxes installed on breakaway supports including:
            1.   Four-inch by four-inch wooden post;
            2.   Two-inch diameter steel or aluminum piping;
            3.   Bury post no more than 24 inches deep; or
            4.   Other breakaway supports.
         (b)   Installation of decorative planter boxes around the base of the
mailbox support is restricted in the parkstrip. Follow the United States Postal
Service (USPS) guidelines for placement and installation requirements.
   (L)   Failure to meet the landscaping requirements of this section
constitutes property blight.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10; Am. Ord. 2021-O-19, passed 11-1-21)
§ 156.26 INADEQUATE SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT.
   The accumulation of solid waste constitutes property blight in the following
situations:
   (A)   The accumulation of solid waste is visible from a street or
neighboring property and is present for more than seventy-two consecutive
hours; or
   (B)   The accumulation of solid waste is being stored or disposed of in a
manner that would allow the material to be transported by wind or otherwise
onto or upon any street, or neighboring property, unless the method of storage
or disposal is specifically allowed by this chapter.
   (C)   The accumulation of dirt, litter, or debris in vestibules or doorways
of buildings constitutes property blight if it is visible from any street or
neighboring properties and is present for more than 72 consecutive hours.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.27 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   No person shall deposit or cause to be deposited, store, or maintain any
garbage, junk, debris, trash or litter, on any parcel unless safely stored
within a lawful enclosed building or structure, or screened by a lawful solid-
fence or screen wall in such a manner as to not be visible from the public
right-of-way.
Note: This provision does not pertain to refuse collection facilities
authorized by the city or covered under a permit issued in accordance with the
permit requirements of the city.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.28 HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Any property upon which there exists a hazardous condition constitutes
property blight.
   (B)   A property is considered to have a hazardous condition prohibited by
this chapter if any one or more of the following conditions exists on the
property:
      (1)   Land having a topography, geology, or configuration that, as a
result of grading operations or improvements to the land, causes erosion,
subsidence, unstable soil conditions, or surface or subsurface drainage
problems that pose a threat of injury or are injurious to any neighboring
property.
      (2)   Any condition or object, including without limitation landscaping,
motor vehicles, fencing or signs, that obscures the visibility of traffic,
pedestrians, or street intersections in a manner that constitutes a hazard.
      (3)   Items are present that are inadequately secured or protected and,
due to their accessibility to the public, may prove hazardous including,
without limitation:
         (a)   Unused or broken equipment or machinery;
         (b)   Abandoned wells, shafts, or basements;
         (c)   Unprotected swimming pools, or major excavations;
         (d)   Structurally unsound fences or structures;
         (e)   Lumber, or accumulations of lumber or other construction
materials; or
         (f)   Chemicals, motor oil, or other hazardous or toxic materials.
      (4)   Any swimming pool, pond or other body of water that is abandoned,
unattended, unfiltered, or not otherwise maintained, so that the water has
become or is becoming polluted water.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
PARKING, STORING AND MAINTAINING CERTAIN ITEMS
§ 156.40 ON PROPERTY DESIGNED OR USED FOR A RESIDENCE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The parking, storing or maintaining of any one or more of the
following items on property designed or used as a residence constitutes
property blight:
      (1)   Any construction or commercial equipment, machinery, vehicle having
a manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating of ten thousand pounds or more, or
construction materials, except that the construction equipment, machinery,
vehicle or materials may be temporarily kept within or upon the property for
and during the time that the equipment, machinery, vehicle, or materials are
required in connection with the delivery, pick-up, construction, installation,
repair, or alteration of improvements or facilities on the property, unless the
activity is otherwise prohibited by this code, by any permit issued pursuant to
this code, or by other applicable law.
      (2)   Any un-mounted camper shell, in a front yard or a side yard visible
from a street.
      (3)   Any motor vehicle, boat, or trailer that is defaced with graffiti
and is in an area visible from any street for a period of time in excess of 72
consecutive hours.
      (4)   Any refrigerator or other appliances that is un-operable or not
connected, in an area visible from any street or in an area accessible to the
public.
   (B)   Note: Any discarded icebox, refrigerator, or other appliance or
container which has an airtight door or lid, snap-lock or other locking device
which may not be released from the inside, shall have the door or lid removed
at all times.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.41 SPECIAL MOBILE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No special mobile equipment shall be parked, stored, or maintained in
an area visible from any street for a period of time in excess of 72
consecutive hours.
   (B)   No special mobile equipment shall be parked, stored, or kept within
five feet of any required building exit, including exit windows.
   (C)   Note: For the purpose of this section, special mobile equipment is
defined as construction related equipment, compressors, welders or similar
equipment that is transported on its own wheels or on a flat bed trailer.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.42 MOTOR VEHICLES AND BOATS.
   No motor vehicle or boat that has been wrecked, dismantled or disassembled,
or any part thereof, or any motor vehicle or boat that is disabled or may not
be operated because of the need of repairs or for any other reason shall be
parked, stored, or maintained in an area visible from any street for a period
of time in excess of 72 consecutive hours.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
Cross reference:
   Junked or abandoned vehicle regulations, §
90.01
§ 156.43 HOUSEHOLD ITEMS.
   (A)   No household item(s) shall be stored or maintained in an area visible
from any street for a period of time in excess of seventy-two consecutive
hours.
   (B)   The storage or maintenance of a household item in a side or rear yard
shall either be:
      (1)   In an accessory building constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; or
      (2)   In an area that provides for a five-foot setback from any property
line and, which is not visible from any street.
   (C)   No household item shall be stored, or mamtained outside of a structure
or building that is within five feet of any required building exit, including
exit windows.
   (D)   This section does not prohibit the storage, or maintenance of
machinery installed in accordance with the provisions of this code in the rear
or side yard setback areas for household or recreational use, furniture
designed and used for outdoor activities, or any item stored or kept within an
enclosed storage structure.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.44 BOXES, LUMBER, DIRT, AND OTHER DEBRIS.
   No boxes, lumber, dirt, or other debris shall be stored or maintained in an
area visible from any street for a period of time in excess of seventy-two
consecutive hours.
   The storage or maintenance of boxes, lumber, dirt, or other debris in a side
or rear yard shall either be:
      (1)   In an accessory building constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; or
      (2)   In an area that provides for a five-foot setback from any property
line, and which is not visible from any street. In addition to the setback
requirement, at least 1, 500 square feet, or at least 60% of the remaining rear
yard area, whichever is less, must be maintained as usable outdoor recreational
or open space.
      (3)   No boxes, lumber, dirt, or other debris shall be stored or
maintained within five feet of any required exit, including exit windows.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.45 ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED ON PROPERTY DESIGNED OR USED AS A RESIDENCE.
   The following activities on any property designed or used as a residence
constitute property blight if seen from a street or public-right-of-way:
   (A)   (1)   Wrecking, dismantling, disassembling, manufacturing,
fabricating, building, assembling, repairing, painting, or servicing, in any
setback area, of any airplane, aircraft, motor vehicle, special mobile
equipment, boat, trailer, machinery, equipment, appliance or appliances,
furniture or other personal property in a required building setback area.
      (2)   Note: The setback requirement does not apply if the adjoining
property is owned by the property owner conducting the activities listed above.
      (3)   This section shall not prohibit the following:
         (a)   An owner, lessee, or occupant of the property from repairing,
washing, cleaning, or servicing of personal property that is owned, leased, or
rented by the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property so long as any
repairing or servicing performed shall be completed within a 72 consecutive
hour period; or
         (b)   Repairing or servicing-of a motor vehicle or part thereof within
a completely enclosed building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from
a street.
   (B)   The use of any motor vehicle for living or sleeping quarters in any
place in the city, except in a location lawfully operated as a mobile home park
or travel trailer park, subject to the following:
      (1)   Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to prohibit bona
fide guests of a city resident from occupying a recreational vehicle upon
residential premises with the consent of the resident for a period not to
exceed 72 hours.
      (2)   Any recreational vehicle so used shall not discharge any waste or
sewage into the city's sewer system except through the residential discharge
connection of the residential premises on which the recreational vehicle is
parked.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
§ 156.46 PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Residential parking restrictions. The following parking restrictions
shall apply to all residential properties and residential neighborhoods. On a
property designed or used as a residence, no person shall park or store any
trailer, boat or motor vehicle in the front yard of property that results in:
      (1)   Uncut grass or weeds under or around the trailer, boat or motor
vehicle, or deteriorates the lawn area to the extent that no grass remains
under or adjacent to the trailer, boat or motor vehicle; or
      (2)   Creates an un-vegetated area(s) that allows for standing water or
significant erosion of the area(s) onto a public street or adjoining property.
   (B)   Other parking restrictions. Nothing contained in this part is intended
to nor shall be construed or interpreted to allow parking that is prohibited or
restricted by any other provision of this code or by any other provision of
law.
(Ord. 2010-O-02, passed 1-26-10)
CHAPTER 157: NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS
Section
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Purpose
   
157.03   Findings; authority
   
157.04   Scope; jurisdiction
   
157.05   General definitions and interpretations
   
157.06   Special definitions and interpretations
   
157.07   Office of Non-residential Building or Structure Standards Inspector
created; powers and duties
   
157.08   Duties and responsibilities of owner
   
157.09   Duties and responsibilities of occupant
   
157.10   Relationship of duties and responsibilities to occupancy
   
157.11   Validity
   
157.12   Conflict with other provisions
   
157.13   Amendments
   
157.14   Unlawful to own unsafe building and structures
   
157.15   Buildings and premises not declared unsafe but which are not in
compliance with all standards
   
157.16   Investigation
   
157.17   Complaint and notice of hearing
   
157.18   Order to take corrective action; contents; issuance
   
157.19   Service of complaints and orders of Inspector
   
157.20   Appeal of order of Inspector; finality if not appealed
   
157.21   Failure to comply with order of Inspector
   
157.22   Remedies; lien for cost of demolition and removal
   
157.23   Failure of occupant to comply with order to vacate
   
157.24   Action by Board of Commissioners upon abandonment of intent to repair
   
157.25   Demolition of non-residential buildings by owner
   
157.26   Inspections
   
157.27   Defects in buildings to be corrected
   
157.28   Violations
   
157.29   Procedure is alternative
§ 157.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Non-Residential Building or Structure
Standards" for the City of Creedmoor, and may be cited as such, and will be
referred to hereinafter as "this chapter."
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.02 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the provisions of this chapter to provide a just,
equitable and practicable method to evaluate whether non-residential buildings
or structures fail to meet minimum standards of maintenance, sanitation, and
safety established by the city. The minimum standards address conditions that
are dangerous and injurious to public health, safety, and welfare and identify
circumstances under which a public necessity exists for the repair, closing, or
demolition of such buildings or structures. The provisions of this chapter are
cumulative with and in addition to any other remedy provided by law including
the current editions of standard codes adopted by the City of Creedmoor.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.03 FINDINGS; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 160A-439, it is hereby found and declared that
there exist in the city non-residential buildings or structures which are
unsafe and especially dangerous to life because of liability to fire or because
of bad conditions of walls, overloaded floors, defective construction, decay,
unsafe wiring or heating systems, inadequate means of egress and other causes.
   (B)   In addition, it is hereby found and declared, that there exist in the
city non-residential buildings or structures which, although not meeting the
classification of unsafe and especially dangerous to life, fail to fully comply
with all the minimum standards for non-residential buildings or structures
fitness as established herein and, therefore, have present one or more
conditions which are inimical to the public health, safety and general welfare.
Such conditions, if not corrected, can lead to deterioration and dilapidation
of non-residential buildings or structures which render them unsafe and
especially dangerous to life.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.04 SCOPE; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing non-residential
buildings or structures and to all non-residential buildings or structures
hereafter constructed within the corporate city limits as now or hereafter
established.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.05 GENERAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Unless specifically defined in § 157.06, words used in the non-residential
building or structure standards of this chapter shall have their respective
customary dictionary definitions. For the purpose of these regulations certain
words, terms or phrases used herein are interpreted and defined as follows.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense.
   (B)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and words used in
the plural shall include the singular.
   (C)   The words SHALL and WILL always indicate mandatory. The words SHOULD
and MAY always indicate optional.
   (D)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT and/or PARCEL.
   (E)   The word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE.
   (F)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, corporation and/or individual.
   (G)   The word USE includes the terms arranged, designed, and/or intended
for a use, activity and/or purpose.
   (H)   The term BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT shall always indicate the Board of
Adjustment of the City of Creedmoor, North Carolina as created and appointed by
the Board of Commissioners of the City of Creedmoor.
   (I)   The term BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS shall always indicate the Board of
Commissioners of the City of Creedmoor, North Carolina.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.06 SPECIAL DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any covered structure intended for shelter, housing or enclosure
of persons, animals, facilities, equipment or chattels; the term BUILDING shall
be construed to include the term STRUCTURE; furthermore, it shall be construed
as if followed by the term or part thereof.
   BUILDING, ACCESSORY. A detached subordinate building located on a lot,
parcel or tract whose use is incidental to that of the principal building. A
building cannot be considered accessory unless it accompanies a principal
building on the same lot, parcel or tract.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the lot,
parcel or tract is conducted.
   BUILDING CODE. The North Carolina State Building Code.
   DETERIORATION. The condition of a building or part thereof, characterized by
holes, breaks, rot, crumbling, rusting, peeling paint or other evidence of
physical decay or loss of structural integrity.
   FIRE HAZARD (see also NUISANCE). Any thing or act which increases, or may
cause an increase of, the hazard, likelihood or menace of fire to a greater
degree than reasonable for the conduct of the non-residential use on the
premises, or which may unreasonably obstruct, delay, or hinder, or may
unreasonably become the cause of an obstruction, a delay, a hazard or an
unreasonable hindrance to the prevention, suppression or extinguishment of
fire.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INFESTATION. The haunting or overrunning by rats, snakes, birds, insects or
other destructive vermin or animals that endanger the public health and safety.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURES STANDARDS INSPECTOR.  The person
delegated as such by the Board of Commissioners of the City of Creedmoor.
(Hereinafter referred to as "the Inspector".)
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any public nuisance known as common law or in equity jurisprudence,
or as provided by the statutes of the State of North Carolina, or the
ordinances of the City of Creedmoor; or
      (2)   Any condition including an attractive nuisance which may prove
detrimental to human health or safety whether in a building, on the premises of
a building, or part of a building or upon an occupied lot; or
      (3)   Physical conditions dangerous to human life or detrimental to
health of persons in, on or near the premises where the condition exists; or
      (4)   Unsanitary conditions or conditions that are dangerous to public
health, well-being or the general welfare; or
      (5)   Fire hazards or other safety hazards.
   OCCUPANT. Any person who has charge, care or control of a non-residential
building or structure or a part thereof, whether with or without the knowledge
and consent of the owner, or any person, individually or jointly, entitled to
possession regardless of whether the building or structure is actually occupied
or not.
   OWNER. The holder of the title in fee simple and every mortgagee of record
of a property.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, and corporations who
have interests of record in a non-residential building or structure and any who
are in possession thereof.
   PHYSICAL VALUATION. The estimated cost to replace a building in kind.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplies, facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas burning equipment, water pipes, water heaters, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, vents
and other similar fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer or
gas lines, and water pipes and lines utilized in conjunction with HVAC
equipment.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land including the buildings or
structures thereon, under control by the same owner or occupant, devoted to or
zoned for non residential use.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. Any sanitary sewer owned, operated and maintained by
the City of Creedmoor and available for public use for the disposal of sewage.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage and
ashes, including, but not limited to, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood,
excelsior, rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals,
mineral matter, glass crockery and dust.
   SEWAGE. Waste from a flush toilet, bathtub, sink, lavatory, dishwashing or
laundry machine, or water carried waste from any other fixture, equipment or
machine.
   STRUCTURALLY SOUND. Substantially free from flaw, defect, decay or
deterioration to the extent that such structure or structural member is capable
of adequately or safely accomplishing the purpose for which it was intended or
designed.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground. (Refer to the definition of BUILDING herein.)
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished or provided by, or under control of, the owner
or occupant.
   VACANT INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSE. Any building or structure designed for the
storage of goods or equipment in connection with manufacturing processes, which
has not been used for that purpose for at least one year and has not been
converted to another use.
   VACANT MANUFACTURING FACILITY. Any building or structure previously used for
the lawful production or manufacturing of goods, which has not been used for
that purpose for at least one year and has not been converted to another use.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.07 OFFICE OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE STANDARDS INSPECTOR
CREATED; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   For the purposes of administering and enforcing the provisions of this
chapter the office of Non-Residential Building or Structures Standards
Inspector, (herein called "Inspector"), is hereby created.
   (B)   The Inspector shall be appointed by the City Board of Commissioners
and shall have such powers as may be necessary or convenient to carry out and
effectuate the purposes and provision of this chapter, including without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, in addition to others herein granted,
the following powers:
      (1)   To investigate the non-residential building conditions in the
jurisdiction in order to determine which buildings therein are unsafe, being
guided in such examinations of buildings by the requirements set forth in this
chapter and for the purpose of carrying out the objectives of this chapter with
respect to such non-residential buildings or structures.
      (2)   To administer oaths and affirmations and to examine witnesses and
receive evidence.
      (3)   To enter upon and within premises and buildings for the purpose of
making examinations and investigations; provided, that such entries shall be
made at reasonable hours in such a manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession.
      (4)   To delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this
chapter to such officers and agents as he or she may designate.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.08 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OWNER.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner to maintain all non-
residential buildings or structures in accordance with all standards for non-
residential buildings or structures fitness as stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.09 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OCCUPANT.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the occupant to ensure that:
   (A)   All parts of the premises under the control of the occupant shall be
kept in a safe, clean and sanitary condition consistent with the non-
residential use and the occupant shall refrain from performing any acts which
would render any part of the building or premises unsafe or unsanitary or which
would obstruct any adjacent owner/occupant from performing any duty required,
or from maintaining his or her building or premises in a safe and sanitary
condition.
   (B)   Every occupant shall be responsible for the elimination of infestation
in and on the premises, subject to his or her control.
   (C)   Every occupant shall maintain all supplied plumbing fixtures in a safe
and sanitary condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable
care in the proper use and operation of same.
   (D)   No garbage or solid waste shall be stored or allowed by the occupant
to accumulate on the premises unless contained in a trash receptacle(s) which
is in accordance with the ordinances of the City of Creedmoor.
   (E)   Damage to public sidewalks and/or curb and gutter located in the
public right-of-way shall be repaired or replaced at no expense to the city
when such damage is caused by vehicles making deliveries to the non-residential
use under the control of the occupant.
   (F)   Where the owner would not otherwise know of a defect of any facility,
utility or equipment required to be furnished hereunder and the same is found
to be defective or inoperable, the occupant affected thereby shall, upon
learning of such defect, provide notice to the owner.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.10 RELATIONSHIP OF DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES TO OCCUPANCY.
   The provisions of this chapter that apply to the exterior or exterior
components of a structure or building or to the premises shall be complied with
whether the structure or building or premises is occupied or vacant. All
unoccupied or vacant structures or buildings shall be secured by their owners
to prevent the entry of unauthorized persons or the formation of nuisance
conditions such as infestation.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.11 VALIDITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this chapter is
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this chapter. The Board of Commissioners hereby
declares that it would have passed this chapter and each section, subsection,
clause and phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections sentences, clauses or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.12 CONFLICT WITH OTHER PROVISIONS.
   In the event any provision, standard or requirement of this chapter is found
to be in conflict with any provision of any other ordinance or code of the
city, the provision which establishes the higher standard or more stringent
requirement for the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the
residents of the jurisdiction shall prevail. The North Carolina State Building
Code, current edition, shall serve as the standard for all alterations,
repairs, additions, removals, demolitions and other acts of building made or
required pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.13 AMENDMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time amend, supplement, or
change the provisions and requirements of this chapter. Any such amendment
shall be by ordinance of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.14 UNLAWFUL TO OWN UNSAFE BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any firm, person or corporation to own a
building or a structure situated in the jurisdiction of the City of Creedmoor
which is in such a defective or hazardous condition that it is unsafe and
especially dangerous to life. The Board of Commissioners has determined that
unsafe and especially dangerous buildings and structures are detrimental to the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Creedmoor, that such unsafe and
especially dangerous buildings and structures shall be condemned, and that the
owners of such unsafe and especially dangerous buildings and structures shall
immediately remedy the unsafe, dangerous, hazardous or unlawful conditions or
demolish such buildings or structures.
   (B)   A building or structure shall be found to be especially dangerous to
life and held unsafe by the Inspector if the Inspector finds that any one of
the following conditions exists in such building or structure:
      (1)   Interior walls or vertical studs which seriously list, lean or
buckle to an extent as to render the building unsafe.
      (2)   Supporting member or members which show 33% or more damage or
deterioration, or non-supporting, enclosing or outside walls or covering which
shows 50% or more of damage or deterioration.
      (3)   Floors or roofs which have improperly distributed loads, which are
overloaded or which have insufficient strength to be reasonably safe for the
purpose used.
      (4)   Such damage by fire, wind or other causes as to render the building
unsafe.
      (5)   Dilapidation, decay, unsanitary conditions or disrepair which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or other people of
the jurisdiction.
      (6)   Inadequate facilities for egress in case of fire or panic.
      (7)   Defects significantly increasing the hazards of fire, accident or
other calamities.
      (8)   Lack of adequate ventilation, light, heating or sanitary facilities
to such extent as to endanger the health, safety or general welfare of the
occupants or other residents of the jurisdiction.
      (9)   Lack of proper electrical, heating or plumbing facilities required
by this chapter which constitutes a health or a definite safety hazard.
      (10)   For any building whose occupancy classification requires it, lack
of connection to a potable water supply and/or to the public sanitary sewer or
other approved sewage disposal system. For the purposes of this standard, a
building is not connected to a potable water supply if the water supply has
been "cut off" because of nonpayment of the water bill or otherwise or if the
system for any reason is not receiving a flow of potable water to the tap.
      (11)   Any violation of the State Fire Prevention Code which constitutes
a condition which is unsafe and especially dangerous to life.
      (12)   Any abandoned non-residential building or structure which is found
to be a health or safety hazard by the Inspector as a result of the attraction
of insects or rodents, conditions creating a fire hazard, dangerous conditions
constituting a threat to children, or frequent use by vagrants as living
quarters in the absence of sanitary facilities.
   (C)   In addition to conditions (1) through (12) enumerated in (B) above,
any one of which renders a building or structure unsafe, the Inspector shall
determine that a non-residential building or structure is unsafe if he or she
finds that a building or structure fails to fully comply with any five or more
of the following enumerated standards of building and premises fitness. Full
compliance with a standard means that if any part of the stated standard is not
complied with by a particular building and premises, then that building and
premises has failed to fully comply with the enumerated standard.
   GENERAL
      (1)   Buildings and premises shall be kept clear of accumulations of
garbage, trash, or rubbish which create health and sanitation problems. All
garbage and solid waste shall be in approved containers or stored in a safe and
sanitary way.
      (2)   Flammable, combustible, explosive or other dangerous or hazardous
materials shall be stored in a manner approved for such materials and
consistent with the State Fire Prevention Code.
      (3)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of loose and
insufficiently anchored overhanging objects which constitute a danger of
falling on persons or property.
      (4)   The premises shall be kept free of insufficiently protected holes,
excavations, breaks, projections, obstructions and other such dangerous
impediments on and around fences, walls, walks, driveways, parking lots and
other areas which are accessible to and generally used by persons on the
premises.
      (5)   Building and premise surfaces shall be kept clear of cracked or
broken glass, loose shingles, loose wood, crumbling stone or brick, loose or
broken plastic or other dangerous objects or similar hazardous conditions.
Exterior surfaces shall be maintained in such material or treated in such a
manner as to prevent deterioration.
      (6)   Buildings and premises shall be kept free of objects and elements
protruding from building walls, roof or premises which are unsafe or not
properly secured or which can create a hazard such as abandoned electrical
boxes and conduits, wires, sign brackets and other brackets, and similar
objects.
   APPURTENANCES
      (7)   All chimneys, flues and vent attachments thereto shall be
maintained structurally sound. Chimneys, flues, gas vents or other draft-
producing equipment which are in use shall provide sufficient draft to develop
the rated output of the connected equipment, shall be structurally safe,
durable, smoke-tight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
      (8)   All exterior porches, landings, balconies, stairs and fire escapes
shall be provided with banisters or railings properly designed and maintained
to minimize the hazard of falling, and the same shall be kept structurally
sound, in good repair, and free of defects.
      (9)   All cornices shall be made structurally sound. Rotten or weakened
portions shall be removed and/or replaced. All exposed wood shall be treated or
painted.
      (10)   Gutters and down spouts shall be replaced or repaired as necessary
and shall be appropriately located and securely installed so as not to cause a
hazard to pedestrians, vehicular traffic or property.
      (11)   Attached and unattached accessory structures shall be maintained
in a state of good repair.
      (12)   Advertising sign structures, attached or freestanding, awnings,
marquees and their supporting members and other similar attachments and
structures shall be maintained in good repair and shall not cause a nuisance or
safety hazard.
   STRUCTURAL
      (13)   Walls, partitions, supporting members, sills, joists, rafters or
other structural members shall not list, lean or buckle, shall not be rotted,
deteriorated or damaged, and shall not have holes or cracks which might admit
rodents.
      (14)   Floors or roofs shall have adequate supporting members and
strength to be reasonably safe for the purpose used.
      (15)   Foundations, foundation walls, piers or other foundation supports
shall not be deteriorated or damaged.
      (16)   Interior and exterior steps, railings, landings, porches or other
parts or appurtenances shall be maintained in such condition that they will not
fall or collapse.
      (17)   Where a wall of a building has become exposed as a result of
demolition of an adjacent building said wall must have all doors, windows,
vents or other similar openings closed with material of the type comprising the
wall unless such doors, windows, vents or other similar openings are to be
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or
loose material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted,
stuccoed or bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of
the wall.
   PLUMBING, ELECTRICAL AND SUPPLIED FACILITIES
      (18)   All plumbing fixtures and pipes shall meet the standards of the
State Plumbing Code and shall be maintained in a state of good repair and in
good working order.
      (19)   All electrical fixtures, receptacles, equipment and wiring shall
be maintained in a state of good repair, safe, capable of being used, and
installed in accordance with the State Electric Code.
      (20)   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this chapter or the State Building Code for occupancy or use
shall be so constructed or installed that it will function safely and
effectively and shall be maintained in satisfactory working condition.
   EGRESS
      (21)   Facilities for egress in case of fire or panic shall be adequate
and shall remain clear for such purposes.
      (22)   All windows must be tight-fitting and have sashes of proper size
and design and free from rotten wood, broken joints, or broken or loose
mullions.
      (23)   All windows shall be maintained free of broken glass that could be
dangerous to the public, invitees or third parties ordinarily expected to use
the premises, from falling or shattering.
      (24)   All openings originally designed as windows shall be maintained as
windows, unless specifically approved by the Inspector for enclosure.
   DRAINAGE
      (25)   All yards and premises shall be properly graded and maintained so
as to obtain thorough drainage and so as to prevent the accumulation of
stagnant water.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.15 BUILDINGS AND PREMISES NOT DECLARED UNSAFE BUT WHICH ARE NOT IN
COMPLIANCE WITH ALL STANDARDS.
   In any case where the Inspector determines that a non-residential building
or structure fails to fully comply with one or more but less than five of the
standards of non-residential buildings or structures fitness set forth in §
157.14(C), such building or structure shall not be found to be unsafe and shall
not be subject to the procedures and remedies as provided for in this chapter
for unsafe buildings and premises. Each such failure of non-compliance,
however, shall constitute a violation of the terms of this chapter and shall
subject the violator to the penalties and enforcement procedures, civil or
criminal or both, of §
157.29. In such case the Inspector shall notify the owner as provided for in §
157.19.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.16 INVESTIGATION.
   Whenever it appears to the Inspector that any non-residential building or
structure has not been properly maintained so that the safety or health of its
occupants or members of the general public are jeopardized for failure of the
property to meet the minimum standards established by the Board of
Commissioners, the Inspector shall undertake a preliminary investigation. If
entry upon the premises for purposes of investigation is necessary, such entry
shall be made pursuant to a duly issued administrative search warrant in
accordance with G.S. 15-27.2 or with permission of the owner, the owner's
agent, a tenant, or other person legally in possession of the premises.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.17 COMPLAINT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the preliminary investigation discloses evidence of a violation of the
minimum standards, the Inspector shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of and parties in interest in the non- residential building or structure
a complaint. The complaint shall state the charges and contain a notice that a
hearing will be held before the Inspector (or his or her designated agent) at a
place within the county scheduled not less than ten days nor more than 30 days
after the serving of the complaint; that the owner and parties in interest
shall be given the right to answer the complaint and to appear in person, or
otherwise, and give testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and
that the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling in hearings before the Inspector.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.18 ORDER TO TAKE CORRECTIVE ACTION; CONTENTS; ISSUANCE.
   If, after notice and hearing, the Inspector determines that the non-
residential building or structure has not been properly maintained so that the
safety or health of its occupants or members of the general public is
jeopardized for failure of the property to meet the minimum standards as
established by the Board of Commissioners, the Inspector shall state in writing
the findings of fact in support of that determination and shall issue and cause
to be served upon the owner thereof an order. The order may require the owner
to take remedial action, within a reasonable time specified, subject to the
procedures and limitations herein.
      (A)   An order may require the owner to repair, alter, or improve the
non-residential building or structure in order to bring it into compliance with
the minimum standards established by the Board of Commissioners or to vacate
and close the non-residential building or structure for any use.
      (B)   An order may require the owner to remove or demolish the non-
residential building or structure if the cost of repair, alteration, or
improvement of the building or structure would exceed 50% of its then current
value. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the non-residential
building or structure is designated as a local historic landmark, listed in the
National Register of Historic Places, or located in a locally designated
historic district or in a historic district listed in the National Register of
Historic Places and the Board of Commissioners determines, after a public
hearing as provided by ordinance, that the non-residential building or
structure is of individual significance or contributes to maintaining the
character of the district, and the non-residential building or structure has
not been condemned as unsafe, the order may require that the non-residential
building or structure be vacated and closed until it is brought into compliance
with the minimum standards established by this chapter.
      (C)   An order may not require repairs, alterations, or improvements to
be made to vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial warehouse
facilities to preserve the original use. The order may require such building or
structure to be vacated and closed, but repairs may be required only when
necessary to maintain structural integrity or to abate a health or safety
hazard that cannot be remedied by ordering the building or structure closed for
any use.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.19 SERVICE OF COMPLAINTS AND ORDERS OF INSPECTOR.
   Complaints or orders issued by the Inspector pursuant to this chapter shall
be served upon persons either personally or by registered or certified mail so
long as the means used are reasonably designed to achieve actual notice. When
service is made by registered or certified mail, a copy of the complaint or
order may also be sent by regular mail. Service shall be deemed sufficient if
the registered or certified mail is refused, but the regular mail is not
returned by the post office within ten days after the mailing. If regular mail
is used, a notice of the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the premises affected. If the identities of any owners or the
whereabouts of persons are unknown and cannot be ascertained by the Inspector
in the exercise of reasonable diligence, and the Inspector makes an affidavit
to that effect, the serving of the complaint or order upon the owners or other
persons may be made by publication in a newspaper having general circulation in
the city at least once no later than the time that personal service would be
required under this section. When service is made by publication, a notice of
the pending proceedings shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises
affected.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.20 APPEAL OF ORDER OF INSPECTOR; FINALITY IF NOT APPEALED.
   Any owner who has received an order under §
157.18 may appeal from the order to the City Board of Adjustment by giving
notice of appeal in writing to the Inspector and to the City Clerk within ten
days following issuance of the order. In the absence of an appeal to the Board
of Adjustment within the prescribed time, the order of the Inspector shall be
final. The Board of Adjustment shall hear appeals within a reasonable time
after receipt of the notice of appeal and it may modify and affirm or revoke
the order. Any person aggrieved by a decision or order of the Inspector shall
have the remedies provided in G.S. 160A-446.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.21 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to repair, alter, or
improve or to vacate and close the non-residential building or structure, the
Board of Commissioners may adopt an ordinance ordering the Inspector to proceed
to effectuate the purpose of this section with respect to the particular
property or properties that the Inspector found to be jeopardizing the health
or safety of its occupants or members of the general public. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Inspector may cause the building or structure to be repaired,
altered, or improved or to be vacated and closed. The Inspector may cause to be
posted on the main entrance of any non-residential building or structure so
closed a placard with the following words: "This building is unfit for any use;
the use or occupation of this building for any purpose is prohibited and
unlawful." Any person who occupies or knowingly allows the occupancy of a
building or structure so posted shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor.
   (B)   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove or demolish the
non-residential building or structure, the Board of Commissioners may adopt an
ordinance ordering the Inspector to proceed to effectuate the purpose of this
section with respect to the particular property or properties that the
Inspector found to be jeopardizing the health or safety of its occupants or
members of the general public. No ordinance shall be adopted to require
demolition of a non-residential building or structure until the owner has first
been given a reasonable opportunity to bring it into conformity with the
minimum standards established by the Board of Commissioners. The property or
properties shall be described in the ordinance. The ordinance shall be recorded
in the Office of the Register of Deeds and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner or owners in the grantor index. Following adoption of an
ordinance, the Inspector may cause the building or structure to be removed or
demolished.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.22 REMEDIES; LIEN FOR COST OF DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal or demolition by the Inspector shall be a lien
against the real property upon which the cost was incurred, which lien shall be
filed, have the same priority, and be collected as the lien for special
assessment provided in G.S. Chapter 160A, Article 10.
   (B)   The amount of the costs is also a lien on any other real property of
the owner located within the city limits except for the owner's primary
residence. The additional lien provided in this subdivision is inferior to all
prior liens and shall be collected as a money judgment.
   (C)   If the non-residential building or structure is removed or demolished
by the Inspector, he or she shall offer for sale the recoverable materials of
the building or structure and any personal property, fixtures, or appurtenances
found in or attached to the building or structure and shall credit the proceeds
of the sale, if any, against the cost of the removal or demolition, and any
balance remaining shall be deposited in the superior court by the Inspector,
shall be secured in a manner directed by the court, and shall be disbursed by
the court to the persons found to be entitled thereto by final order or decree
of the court. Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair or limit in
any way the power of the Board of Commissioners to define and declare nuisances
and to cause their removal or abatement by summary proceedings or otherwise.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.23 FAILURE OF OCCUPANT TO COMPLY WITH ORDER TO VACATE.
   If any occupant fails to comply with an order to vacate a non-residential
building or structure, the Inspector may file a civil action in the name of the
city to remove the occupant. The action to vacate shall be in the nature of
summary ejectment and shall be commenced by filing a complaint naming as
parties defendant any person occupying the non-residential building or
structure. The Clerk of Superior Court shall issue a summons requiring the
defendant to appear before a magistrate at a certain time, date, and place not
to exceed ten days from the issuance of the summons to answer the complaint.
The summons and complaint shall be served as provided in G.S. 42-29. The
summons shall be returned according to its tenor, and if on its return it
appears to have been duly served and if at the hearing the Inspector produces a
certified copy of an ordinance adopted by the Board of Commissioners pursuant
to §
157.21 to vacate the occupied non-residential building or structure, the
magistrate shall enter judgment ordering that the premises be vacated and all
persons be removed. The judgment ordering that the non-residential building or
structure be vacated shall be enforced in the same manner as the judgment for
summary ejectment entered under G.S. 42-30. An appeal from any judgment entered
under this division by the magistrate may be taken as provided in G.S. 7A-228,
and the execution of the judgment may be stayed as provided in G.S. 7A-227. An
action to remove an occupant of a non-residential building or structure who is
a tenant of the owner may not be in the nature of a summary ejectment
proceeding pursuant to this subsection unless the occupant was served with
notice, at least 30 days before the filing of the summary ejectment proceeding,
that the governing body has ordered the Inspector to proceed to exercise his or
her duties under §
157.21 to vacate and close or remove and demolish the non-residential building
or structure.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.24 ACTION BY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS UPON ABANDONMENT OF INTENT TO REPAIR.
   (A)   If the Board of Commissioners has adopted an ordinance or the
Inspector has issued an order requiring the building or structure to be
repaired or vacated and closed and the building or structure has been vacated
and closed for a period of two years pursuant to the ordinance or order, the
Board of Commissioners may make findings that the owner has abandoned the
intent and purpose to repair, alter, or improve the building or structure and
that the continuation of the building or structure in its vacated and closed
status would be inimical to the health, safety, and welfare of the municipality
in that it would continue to deteriorate, would create a fire or safety hazard,
would be a threat to children and vagrants, would attract persons intent on
criminal activities, or would cause or contribute to blight and the
deterioration of property values in the area. Upon such findings, the Board of
Commissioners may, after the expiration of the two-year period, enact an
ordinance and serve such ordinance on the owner, setting forth the following:
      (1)   If the cost to repair the non-residential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards is less than or equal to
50% of its then current value, the ordinance shall require that the owner
either repair or demolish and remove the building or structure within 90 days;
or
      (2)   If the cost to repair the non-residential building or structure to
bring it into compliance with the minimum standards exceeds 50% of its then
current value, the ordinance shall require the owner to demolish and remove the
building or structure within 90 days.
   (B)   In the case of vacant manufacturing facilities or vacant industrial
warehouse facilities, the building or structure must have been vacated and
closed pursuant to an order or ordinance for a period of five years before the
Board of Commissioners may take action under this division. The ordinance shall
be recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds in the county wherein the
property or properties are located and shall be indexed in the name of the
property owner in the grantor index. If the owner fails to comply with the
ordinance, the Inspector shall effectuate the purpose of the ordinance.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.25 DEMOLITION OF NON-RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS BY OWNER.
   Where a non-residential building or structure is under the jurisdiction of
this chapter, the building may be demolished by the owner provided that the
following requirements are met:
   (A)   The owner shall obtain a demolition permit from the Building
Inspections Department.
   (B)   All sewer, gas, water and similar taps or connections shall be
properly closed and disconnected.
   (C)   All debris from the building shall be removed from the site. This
requirement is for the removal of all debris that is above the street level of
the building.
   (D)   The lot shall be graded to a smooth, even, finished grade, free from
building material, debris, holes, and/or depressions. Where building debris
remains on the site below street level, the owner must back fill the lot with
12 inches of clean fill which shall be graded to a smooth, even finished grade.
   (E)   Where walls of adjacent buildings become exposed as a result of the
demolition, said walls must have all doors, windows, vents or other similar
openings closed with material of the type comprising the wall, unless such
doors, windows, vents, or other similar openings are to be maintained in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. No protrusions or loose
material shall be in the wall. The exposed wall shall be painted, stuccoed or
bricked and weatherproofed if necessary to prevent deterioration of the wall.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.26 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the intent of this chapter, the
Inspector is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable
times all non-residential buildings and premises, including abandoned
structures. The owner or occupant of every non-residential building or the
person in charge thereof, shall give the Inspector free access to such building
and its premises, at all reasonable times for the purposes of such inspection,
examination and survey. Every occupant of a non-residential building shall give
the owner thereof, or his or her agent or employee, access to any part of such
building and its premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of making
such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance with the
provisions of this chapter or with any lawful order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Inspector may make periodic inspections for unsafe, unsanitary or
otherwise hazardous and unlawful conditions in non-residential structures
within the jurisdiction. In addition, he or she may make inspections when he
has reason to believe that such conditions may exist in a particular structure
or premises.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.27 DEFECTS IN BUILDINGS TO BE CORRECTED.
   When the Inspector finds any defects in a non-residential building, or finds
that a building has not been constructed in accordance with applicable state
and city laws, or that a building because of its condition is dangerous or
contains fire hazardous conditions, it shall be his or her duty to notify the
owner or occupant of the building of its defects, hazardous conditions or
failure to comply with law. The owner or occupant shall each immediately remedy
the defects, hazardous conditions or violations of law in the property he owns.
Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Each day any
violation of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.28 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the conditions, acts or failure to act that constitute
violations specified in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building or structure to fail, neglect or refuse to repair, alter or improve
the same, or to vacate and close or vacate and remove or demolish the same,
upon order of the Inspector duly made and served as herein provided, within the
time specified in such order. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
building, with respect to which an order has been issued pursuant to §
157.18, to occupy or permit the occupancy of the same after the time prescribed
in such order for its repair, alteration or improvement or its vacation and
closing, or vacation and removal or demolition.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10)
§ 157.29 PROCEDURE IS ALTERNATIVE.
   The procedure set forth in this chapter shall be in addition to any other
remedies that may now or hereafter exist under law for the abatement of public
nuisances, and this chapter shall not prevent the city from proceeding in a
criminal action against any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter as provided in G.S. 14-4. In addition to the
remedies provided for herein, any violation of the terms of this chapter shall
subject the violator to the penalties and remedies, either criminal or civil or
both, as set forth in §
10.99 of this Code of Ordinances. Violation of this section may constitute an
infraction in accordance with §
10.99 of this Code and G.S. § 14-4.
(Ord. 2010-O-19, passed 12-14-10; Am. Ord. 2022-O-01, passed 3-1-22)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[RESERVED]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to 1984 Code of Ordinances
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cite Code Section
G.S. Cite                        Code Section
7A-227                           151.10,
                                 157.23
7A-228                           151.10,
                                 157.23
Chapter 14, Article 7A           115.05
Chapter 14, Article 26           115.05
Chapter 14, Article 26A          115.05
Chapter 14, Article 27           115.05
Chapter 14, Article 35           130.01
Chapter 14, Article 37           115.05
Chapter 14, Article 39           115.05
                                 10.99,
                                 70.02,
                                 70.03,
                                 70.16,
                                 70.30,
                                 70.32—
                                 70.39,
                                 71.01,
                                 71.15—
                                 71.17,
                                 71.30,
                                 71.40,
                                 71.50,
                                 72.01,
                                 72.02,
                                 72.15—
                                 72.23,
                                 72.31,
                                 73.01—
                                 73.08,
                                 92.02,
                                 92.03,
                                 92.05—
                                 92.12,
14-4                             92.21—
                                 92.26,
                                 92.40,
                                 92.50,
                                 92.60—
                                 92.62,
                                 93.01—
                                 93.03,
                                 94.02,
                                 94.05,
                                 94.07,
                                 94.08,
                                 95.01,
                                 95.02,
                                 96.01—
                                 96.08,
                                 97.02—
                                 97.08,
                                 111.03,
                                 111.04,
                                 112.01,
                                 112.02,
                                 130.01—
                                 130.04,
                                 151.08,
                                 157.29
14-4(b)                          70.99
14-360 et seq.                   97.02
14-415.11(c)                     92.12
14-415.23                        92.12
15-27.2                          157.16
18B-101                          112.01
18B-101(4)                       130.05
18B-300(c)                       93.01
Chapter 20                       70.01
20-04.01(2b)                     72.22
20-04.01(3d)                     72.22
20-4.01                          70.01
20-4.01(7b)                      70.01
20-4.01(27)                      70.01
20-4.01(27)h                     70.01
20-141(e)                        71.01
20-141(f)                        71.01
20-156                           70.17
20-219.11                        90.09
42-29                            151.10,
                                 157.23
42-30                            151.10,
                                 157.23
Chapter 44A, Art. 1              90.11
Chapter 66, Article 45, Part 1   110.01
66-387                           110.01
105-349                          Charter §
                                 4.6
105-350                          Charter §
                                 4.6
106-645                          97.07
122C-3(11)b                      98.01
Chapter 130A , Article 10        92.02
136-141 et seq.                  90.14
136-143                          90.14
143-145(7)                       151.03
143-215.77A                      95.01
159-25                           Charter §
                                 4.5
Chapter 160A                     51.01
Chapter 160A, Article 7, Part 2  Charter §
                                 4.1
Chapter 160A, Article 16         54.01
Chapter 160A, Article 10         151.10,
                                 157.22
Chapter 160A, Article 19, Part 6 151.01
160A-1                           Charter §
                                 1.2
160A-64                          30.07
160A-67                          30.03
160A-69                          30.03
160A-74                          Charter §
                                 2.6
160A-77                          70.01
160A-78                          10.15
160A-79                          10.14
160A-148                         31.01
160A-164                         31.04
160A-171                         31.02
160A-173                         31.03
160A-174                         151.01
160A-175                         10.99,
                                 111.04
160A-175(c)                      99.09
160A-178                         111.03
160A-182                         97.02
160A-184                         96.01
160A-189                         130.02
160A-190                         130.02
160A-193                         96.08,
                                 96.99
160A-203.1                       97.05
160A-266(c)                      32.05
160A-296                         93.03
160A-300                         70.01
160A-303                         90.01,
                                 90.02
160A-303.1                       50.01
160A-303.2                       90.01,
                                 90.02
160A-314                         54.01,
                                 54.16
160A-314(a1)(1)                  54.04
160A-439                         157.03
160A-444                         151.01
160A-446                         157.20
163-292                          Charter §
                                 3.1
166A-19.15                       Chapter 34
                                 
 
REFERENCES TO 1984 CODE
1984 Code Section 2003 Code Section
1984 Code Section 2003 Code Section
2-1002            30.02
2-1003            30.03
2-1004            30.04
2-1006            30.05
2-1007            30.06
2-1008            30.07
2-1041            10.13
2-1043            10.14
2-1044            10.15
2-1045            30.39
2-2001            31.16
2-2002            31.03
3-2031            91.02
3-3001            34.01—
                  34.05
4-1001            93.08
4-1011            93.03
4-1012            93.03
4-1013            93.03
4-1014            93.03
4-1015            93.03
4-1016            93.03
4-1017            93.03
4-1018            93.03
4-1019            93.03
4-1020            93.03
4-2001            50.01
4-2002            50.02
4-2003            50.03
4-2004            50.04
4-2008            50.18
4-2009            50.19
4-2010            50.20
5-3001            51.01
5-3002            51.01
5-3003            51.01
5-3004            51.01
5-3005            51.01
5-3006            51.01
6-1001            112.01
6-1002            112.02
6-1011            111.01
6-1012            111.02
6-1013            111.03
6-2001            93.02,
                  93.09
6-2002            93.02
6-2003            93.02
6-2004            93.02
6-2005            93.02
6-2021            93.01
6-2022            93.01
6-2023            93.01
6-2024            93.01
6-2025            93.01
6-2031            94.01
6-2032            94.02
6-2033            94.03
6-2034            94.04
6-2035            94.05
6-2036            94.06
6-2037            94.07
6-2038            94.08
6-2039            94.09
7-1001            70.01
7-1011            70.15
7-1012            70.16
7-1013            70.17
7-1021            70.30
7-1022            70.31
7-1023            70.32
7-1024            70.33
7-1025            70.38
7-1026            70.39
7-1027            70.35
7-1028            70.36
7-1029            70.37
7-1030            70.34
7-1041            71.01
7-1051            71.15
7-1052            71.16
7-1053            71.17
7-1061            71.30
7-1062            71.30
7-1072            71.40
7-1073            71.40
7-1074            71.40
7-1075            71.40
7-1081            71.50
7-1082            71.50
7-1101            73.01
7-1102            73.02
7-1103            73.03
7-1104            73.04
7-1105            73.05
7-1106            73.06
7-1107            73.07
7-1108            73.08
7-1121            72.01
7-1122            72.02
7-1131            72.15
7-1132            72.16
7-1133            72.17
7-1134            72.18
7-1135            72.19
7-1141            72.21
7-1142            72.21
7-1143            72.21
7-1151            72.20
7-1152            72.20
7-1153            72.20
7-1154            72.20
7-1155            72.20
7-1161            70.03
7-1171            72.30
7-1173            72.31
7-2001            70.02
7-2002            70.02
8-1001            130.01
8-1002            130.02
8-1003            130.03
8-1004            130.04
8-2004            97.04
8-2005            97.99
8-4001            96.08
8-4005            96.99
8-4006            96.99
8-5001            96.01
8-5002            96.02
8-5003            96.03
8-5004            96.04
8-5005            96.05
8-5006            96.06
8-5007            96.07
9-1001            150.01
9-1002            150.02
9-1003            150.03
9-1004            150.04
9-1005            150.05
9-1006            150.06
9-1007            150.07
9-1008            150.08
9-1009            150.09
9-1021            150.25
9-1022            150.26
9-1023            150.27
9-1024            150.28
9-1025            150.29
9-1026            150.30
9-1027            150.31
9-1041            150.65
9-1042            150.66
9-1043            150.67
9-1044            150.68
9-1045            150.69
9-1046            150.70
9-1047            150.71
9-1048            150.72
9-1049            150.73
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
2009-R-18 12-15-09    30.04
                      92.45,
2010-R-02 1-26-10     92.99,
                      130.02
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
—       1-15-16     130.02
—       8-26-20     150.65
—       6-30-25     70.02
—       5-29-28     72.01
—       9-5-39      93.03
—       4-3-40      93.03
                      72.01,
—       5-26-42     72.15,
                      72.16
—       4-24-62     70.03
—       1-29-63     96.02—
                      96.05
—       4-27-65     112.02
—       1-25-66     112.02
                      150.01—
—       10-6-66     150.07,
                      150.09
—       10-25-66    93.01,
                      96.06
—       9-27-67     71.50
—       2-27-68     150.06
—       4-30-68     72.15,
                      96.01
—       4-29-69     96.07
—       10-28-69    93.01
—       2-24-70     97.99
—       10-23-73    70.03
—       4-23-74     73.07,
                      73.08
—       2-7-75      70.02
—       3-25-80     96.99
—       2-23-82     51.01
86-O-13   6-24-86     72.16;
                      72.30
                      110.01,
87-O-12   11-24-87    110.02,
                      110.99
88-O-10   11-22-88    130.02
89-O-06   5-23-89     95.01
90-O-14   7-24-90     95.02
91-O-06   5-28-91     91.01
97-O-15   10-1-97     30.01
98-O-01   3-24-98     35.05—
                      35.08
2000-O-12 6-27-00     51.15
                      113.001—
                      113.011,
                      113.025—
                      113.038,
                      113.055—
                      113.060,
                      113.075—
—       8-27-02     113.086,
                      113.105—
                      113.112,
                      113.125—
                      113.136,
                      113.155—
                      113.162,
                      113.175
2004-O-22 10-26-04    98.01,
                      98.02
2005-O-02 5-24-05     71.50
2006-O-06 5-23-06     115.01—
                      115.12  
2006-O-21 8-22-06     72.22
                      156.01—
                      156.05,
2006-O-23 9-26-06     156.15—
                      156.28,
                      156.40—
                      156.46
2007-O-10 11-27-07    31.30,
                      31.32
                      70.01—
                      70.03,
                      70.15—
                      70.17,
                      70.30—
                      70.39,
                      70.99,
                      71.01,
                      71.15—
                      71.17,
2009-O-06 7-13-09     71.30,
                      71.40,
                      71.50,
                      72.01,
                      72.02,
                      72.15—
                      72.21,
                      72.30,
                      72.31,
                      73.01—
                      73.08
2010-O-09 7-27-10     96.01
2010-O-11 7-27-10     72.23
2010-O-13 7-27-10     130.05
2010-O-15 12-14-10    10.99
2010-O-16 12-14-10    90.01—
                      90.16
2010-O-17 12-14-10    96.08
2010-O-18 12-14-10    151.01—
                      151.16
2010-O-19 12-14-10    157.01—
                      157.29
2011-O-07 9-27-11     96.01
                      54.01—
2012-O-03 6-26-12     54.05,
                      54.15—
                      54.19
2012-O-04 6-26-12     152.01
2012-O-05 9-25-12     96.09
2013-O-04 4-8-13      96.01
2013-O-06 5-28-13     96.08
2013-O-11 7-8-13      50.17
2014-O-02 5-27-14     96.01
2014-O-05 8-4-14      111.02,
                      111.04
2015-O-01 3-16-15     130.02
                      50.01—
2015-O-02 3-16-15     50.05,
                      50.15—
                      50.20
2015-O-08 6-15-15     99.01—
                      99.10
2015-O-09 6-15-15     10.99
2015-O-11 6-15-15     70.99
2015-O-12 6-15-15     96.01
2015-O-14 7-6-15      52.01
2015-O-15 7-6-15      53.01
2015-O-16 7-20-15     73.01—
                      73.08
2015-O-17 8-3-15      72.15,
                      72.20
                      97.01—
2016-O-14 7-19-16     97.08,
                      97.99
                      30.01—
                      30.08,
                      31.01—
2016-O-22 11-15-16    31.04,
                      32.01,
                      32.05—
                      32.08
2017-O-03 2-21-17     10.01—
                      10.21
2018-O-02 2-20-18     93.01 -
                      93.11
2020-O-01 2-4-20      30.08
2020-O-07 5-11-20     93.01,
                      130.05
                      92.01—
                      92.12,
                      92.20—
                      92.27,
2020-O-12 6-8-20      92.40,
                      92.50,
                      92.60—
                      92.62,
                      92.99
2020-O-14 8-11-20     92.01,
                      93.01
2021-O-04 4-6-21      30.08
2021-O-19 11-1-21     156.05,
                      156.25
                      10.99,
                      70.02,
                      70.03,
                      70.16,
                      70.30,
                      70.32—
                      70.39,
                      70.99,
                      71.01,
                      71.15—
                      71.17,
                      71.30,
                      71.40,
                      71.50,
                      72.01,
                      72.02,
                      72.15—
                      72.23,
                      72.30,
                      72.31,
                      73.01—
                      73.08,
                      92.01—
                      92.03,
                      92.05—
                      92.12,
                      92.20—
2022-O-01 3-1-22      92.26,
                      92.40,
                      92.50,
                      92.60—
                      92.62,
                      92.99,
                      93.01—
                      93.03,
                      94.01,
                      94.02,
                      94.05,
                      94.07,
                      94.08,
                      95.01,
                      95.02,
                      96.01—
                      96.08,
                      96.99,
                      97.01—
                      97.08,
                      97.99,
                      111.03,
                      112.01,
                      112.02,
                      130.01—
                      130.04,
                      151.08,
                      157.29
2022-O-13 12-6-22     99.01—
                      99.10
2023-O-02 1-17-23     30.08
                      Charter
2024-O-01 2-6-24      2.3,
                      3.2
                     
 
 
