DARE COUNTY, NORTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-17 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance passed 2-3-2025; and
State legislation through 2024 Regular Session #3
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
SPECIAL ACTS
Article I.
An Act to Lay Off and Establish a New County by the Name of “Dare.”
§ 1.   County laid off and established; boundaries.
§ 2.   County vested with rights of counties of state.
§ 3.   Certain township trustees to continue in office; vacancies in township
boards of trustees.
§ 4.   Appointment, powers and duties and term of first county commissioners;
submission of question of formation of county to voters.
§ 5.   Appointment and term of first county clerk.
§ 6.   Extension to county of superior court jurisdiction.
§ 7.   Temporary courthouse.
§ 8.   Use of Pasquotank County jail.
§ 9.   Applicability of act relating to townships.
§ 10.   When county allowed first member of house of representatives.
§ 11.   Senatorial district established.
§ 12.   Selection of county seat.
§ 13.   County commissioners to contract for building of courthouse and jail.
§ 14.   Appointment of county surveyors.
§ 15.   Tax levy for purpose of erecting courthouse and jail.
§ 16.   Effective date; ratification.
Article II.
An Act to Authorize the Commissioners of Dare County to Have Transcribed Deeds
and Other Papers or Records in the Counties of Hyde, Tyrrell, etc.
§ 1.   Authority granted.
§ 2.   Effect of transcription and recording of deeds, mortgages, etc.,
requiring registration.
§ 3.   Compensation.
§ 4.   Effective date; ratification.
Article III.
An Act to Establish the Dividing Lines Between Certain Sounds in Dare County,
Relative to the Enforcement of the Laws in the Said Sounds by the Fish
Commissioner.
§ 1.   Line established.
§ 2.   Effective date; ratification.
Article IV.
An Act Allowing Atlantic Township, Currituck County, to Become Part of Dare
County by Act of the Voters of Said Township.
§ 1.   Special election to be held on petition advertising election.
§ 2.   Qualifications of voters and method of conducting special election.
§ 3.   Form of ballots; county and return of votes; reports of result to Dare
County board of commissioners.
§ 4.   Effective date of annexation; name of township; line to be surveyed and
marked.
§ 5.   Annexed property not to be taxed for bonded indebtedness.
§ 6.   Collection of taxes already levied by Currituck County.
§ 7.   Justices of peace to continue to hold office.
§ 8.   Jurisdiction of causes not affected.
§ 9.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 10.   Effective date; ratification.
Article V.
An Act to Increase the Membership of the Board of Commissioners of Dare County.
§ 1.   Board of commissioners to consist of five persons, effective first
Monday in December, 1920; election to be held every two years.
§ 2.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 3.   Effective date; ratification.
Article VI.
An Act to Establish the Line Between Atlantic Township, Dare County, and Poplar
Branch Township,
Currituck County, and to Regulate Fishing in Atlantic Township.
§ 1.   Boundary defined; fisheries commission board to mark and buoy line in
Currituck Sound.
§ 2.   Certain fishing laws repealed.
§ 3.   Effective date; ratification.
Article VII.
An Act to Authorize the Board of County Commissioners of Dare and Currituck
Counties
to Establish and Mark the Dividing Line Between Said Counties.
§ 1.   Commission to be established; each county to bear one-half of expenses;
compensation of commission.
§ 2.   Fisheries commission board to mark boundary.
§ 3.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 4.   Effective date; ratification.
Article VIII.
An Act to Consolidate the Townships of Hatteras and Kennakeet in Dare County,
and to Provide for the Election of One Member of the County Board of
Commissioners
and One Member of the County Board of Education From Such Consolidated
Township.
§ 1.   Townships consolidated; name of consolidated township.
§ 2.   Representation of consolidated township on boards of commissioners and
of education of Dare County.
§ 3.   Nomination of township candidate for board of commissioners.
§ 4.   Nomination of township candidate for board of education.
§ 5.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 6.   Effective date; ratification.
Article IX.
An Act to Create a Fire District for the Purpose of Levying Taxes Therein
Consisting of Roanoke Island Outside of Manteo
and Authorizing Cooperation With Manteo in Fire Protection.
§ 1.   Roanoke Island Fire District created; composition and purpose.
§ 2.   Annual tax levy.
§ 3.   Tax proceeds to be paid to Town of Manteo.
§ 4.   Town of Manteo to use tax funds for providing and maintaining fire
equipment and providing fire protection within fire district.
§ 5.   Town of Manteo to make annual report to Dare County board of
commissioners.
§ 6.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 7.   Effective date; ratification.
Article X.
An Act to Establish a Quasi-Public Corporation to be Known as the Dare County
Community Center.
§ 1.   Dare County Community Center created; purpose.
§ 2.   Composition, selection and terms of board of trustees; vacancies on
board of trustees.
§ 3.   County board of education to convey certain land.
§ 4.   Powers and duties of board of trustees.
§ 5.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 6.   Effective dab; ratification.
Article XI.
An Act to Prohibit the Operation of Motor Vehicles in Certain Beach Areas in
Dare County.
§ 1.   Operation of motor vehicles or aircraft prohibited in described areas.
§ 2.   Exceptions.
§ 2-A.   Removal of waste, etc., from beach after fishing operation.
§ 3.   Penalties.
§ 4.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 5.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XII.
An Act to Prevent the Depositing of Trash, Tin Cans, and Litter upon the Lands
of Another on Roanoke Island
and on the Beach Between Wright Memorial Bridge and Roanoke Island Bridge in
Dare County Without Written Consent.
§ 1.   Depositing trash, debris, litter, etc., upon lands of another prohibited
without owner's consent.
§ 2.   Area to which act applicable.
§ 3.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 4.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XIII.
An Act Relating to the Nomination and the Election of County Commissioners and
Members of the County Board of Education
by Districts in Dare County.
§ 1.   Districts established.
§ 2.   Candidates must reside in district.
§ 3.   Elections.
§ 4.   Members; vacancies.
§ 5.   Representatives of districts.
§ 6.   Additional members; notice of candidacy.
§ 7.   Expiration.
§ 8.   1996 election.
§ 9.   1998 election.
§ 10.   2000 election.
§ 11.   2002 election.
§ 12.   Time of election and expiration.
§ 13.   Chapter repealed.
§ 14.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XIV.
An Act Authorizing the Board of County Commissioners of Dare County to Adopt
Rules and Regulations
Regulating or Prohibiting the use of loudspeakers and Other Public Address and
Broadcasting Systems
Within Certain Beach Areas in Said County.
§ 1.   Authority granted.
§ 2.   Effective date of rules or ordinances adopted pursuant to act.
§ 3.   Penalties for violations of rules or ordinances.
§ 4.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 5.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XV.
An Act for the Protection of Wildlife on Certain Portions of the Beach and on
Roanoke Island in Dare County.
§ 1.   Possession and use of rifles and air rifles restricted in certain areas.
§ 2.   Penalties.
§ 3.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 4.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XVI.
An Act to Authorize the Board of County Commissioners of Dare County to
Establish, Maintain,
Develop and Improve Waterways in Dare County.
§ 1.   Board of commissioners authorized to investigate need for waterways,
etc., upon petition.
§ 2.   Board of commissioners to make findings of fact.
§ 3.   Board of commissioners to proceed with project after findings of fact.
§ 4.   Authority to expend funds.
§ 5.   Authority to participate in matching fund programs, etc.
§ 6.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 7.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XVII.
An Act to Authorize the Board of County Commissioners of Dare County to
Establish the Office of Tax Collector,
and to Transfer All of the Duties, Powers and Responsibilities of Tax
Collection to the Office of Tax Collector,
and to Relieve the Sheriff of Tax Collections.
§ 1.   Authority granted.
§ 2.   Appointment, term, compensation and bond of tax collector; employment of
other personnel.
§ 3.   Powers and duties of tax collector.
§ 4.   Settlement for taxes with tax collector upon appointment.
§ 5.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 6.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XVIII.
An Act Prohibiting the Use of Rifles in the Mainland Area of Dare County from
the Northern Boundary Line
of the Town of Kill Devil Hills to the Northern Boundary Line of the County of
Dare.
§ 1.   Discharge of rifles prohibited.
§ 2.   Act not applicable to law enforcement officers in pursuit of duties.
§ 3.   Act applicable only in certain areas.
§ 4.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 5.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XIX.
An Act Enabling the County of Dare to Establish an Airport Authority.
§ 1.   Airport authority created; powers and jurisdiction generally.
§ 2.   Composition; appointment, terms and qualifications of members; oath;
vacancies.
§ 3.   Members to constitute board of directors; compensation; voting;
officers; meetings.
§ 4.   Specific powers and authority.
§ 5.   Issuance of bonds, etc., by airport authority.
§ 6.   Issuance of bonds by county.
§ 7.   Acquisition from county of property for construction, operation and
maintenance of airport.
§ 8.   Lands owned, occupied, etc., by airport authority declared to be owned,
occupied, etc., for public purpose.
§ 9.   Acquisition of private property or aviation easements.
§ 10.   Annual report to board of commissioners; limitations on powers.
§ 11.   Applicability of state statutes.
§ 12.   Employment of agents, engineers, attorneys, etc.; liability of members
for actions.
§ 13.   Authority of county to appropriate funds.
§ 14.   Airport authority authorized to expend funds enter into contracts, etc.
§ 15.   Authority to deal with representatives of federal government.
§ 16.   Powers not effective until members appointed; formation of authority
not mandatory.
§ 17.   Administration of funds.
§ 18.   Quarterly reports to board of commissioners.
§ 19.   Validity; repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 20.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XX.
An Act to Prohibit Hunting or Taking of Bear in Dare County.
§ 1.   Hunting or taking bear prohibited in Dare and Craven Counties.
§ 2.   Violations.
§ 3.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 4.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXI.
An Act Prohibiting the Running and Chasing of Deer with Dogs between March 1
and June 30 in Dare County.
§ 1.   Running or chasing deer with dogs prohibited between March 1 and June
30.
§ 2.   Allowing dogs to run or chase deer prohibited between March 1 and June
30.
§ 3.   Penalties.
§ 4.   Applicability of act.
§ 5.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXII.
An Act Relating to the Distribution of the Profits from the Operation of the
Dare County Alcoholic Beverage Control Board.
§ 1.   Distribution of profits regulated.
§ 2.   Repeal of conflicting laws.
§ 3.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXIII.
An Act Authorizing the Board of Commissioners of Dare County to Create a Dare
County Game and Wildlife Commission.
§ 1.   Creation of commission authorized; composition.
§ 2.   Appointment and terms of members; officers; quorum; meetings; members
authorized to discuss or vote on own license applications.
§ 3.   Powers and duties generally.
§ 4.   Posting of license.
§ 5.   Hearing and review of licensing disputes; granting, altering,
revocation, etc., of licenses; appeals from decisions of commission.
§ 6.   Penalty.
§ 7.   Enforcement.
§ 8.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXIV.
An Act to Expressly Authorize a Local ABC Board to Enter Into a Contract With a
Local Law Enforcement Agency.
§ 1.   Modification of G.S., § 18A-17(14).
§ 2.   Act applicable only to certain counties and municipalities.
§ 3.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXV.
An Act to Authorize Dare County to Increase its Occupancy Tax, Levy a
Restaurant Tax,
and Create a Tourism Board to Promote Tourism in Dare County.
§ 1.   Occupancy tax.
§ 2.   Definitions.
§ 3.   Additional occupancy tax.
§ 4.   Prepared food and beverage tax.
§ 5.   Penalties.
§ 6.   Dare County Tourism Board.
§ 7.   Use of proceeds of additional occupancy tax and prepared food and
beverage tax.
§ 8.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXVI.
An Act to Permit Municipalities Bordering on the Atlantic Ocean to Regulate
Sewer Tie-Ons Within Their Corporate Limits,
and to Authorize Dare County to Levy an Excise Tax on Instruments Conveying
Real Property in Dare County.
§ 1.   Adding to G.S. Chapter 160A.
§ 2.   Tax.
§ 3.   Terms of Board Members.
§ 4.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXVII.
An Act to Exempt Real Estate Transfer Taxes Transfers to Secured Lenders
Foreclosing Loans
or Accepting Deeds in Lieu of Foreclosure.
§ 1.   Amending G.S. Chapter 45.
§ 2.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXVIII.
An Act to Allow the Dare County Board of Commissioners to Redistrict its
Residency Districts
and Change the Manner of Election of the Board of Commissioners in Time for the
1992 Primary and Elections.
§ 1.   Repealing G.S. § 153A-60(4).
§ 2.   Repealing G.S. § 153A-61.
§ 3.   Rewriting G.S. § 153A-64.
§ 4.   Public hearing.
§ 5.   Repealing G.S. § 153A-22(g).
§ 5.1   Resolution may apply to 1992 primary and general elections.
§ 5.2   Local acts pertaining to establishment of districts repealed.
§ 6.   Act applicable only to Dare County.
§ 7.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXIX.
An Act to Provide for an Election in the Northeasternmost Part of Dare County
on the Question
of Establishing a Duck Area Beautification District
and to Provide for the Levy and Collection of Property Taxes in this District.
§ 1.   Election authorized.
§ 2.   Description of district.
§ 3.   Ballot.
§ 4.   District established; tax levy.
§ 5.   Nature of district; governing body.
§ 6.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXX.
An Act to Provide for an Election Within the Duck Area Beautification District
of Dare County to Authorize the Levy
and Collection of Ad Valorem Property Taxes for the Purpose of Constructing and
Maintaining Sidewalks Within That District.
§ 1.   Election authorized.
§ 2.   Ballot.
§ 3.   Tax levy.
§ 4.   Governing body.
§ 5.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXXI.
An Act to Allow Dare County to Establish a Special Leash Law District, Apply a
Leash Law Within That District,
and Levy a Tax in that District for Enforcement of the Leash Law.
§ 1.   Creation of special districts.
§ 2.   Adoption of ordinance to apply only in special district; definitions.
§ 2.1.   Application of ordinance only in territory of proposed district.
§ 3.   Election authorized; tax levy.
§ 4.   Procedure and results of election.
§ 5.   Ballot.
§ 6.   Vote in favor.
§ 7.   Governing body; audit.
§ 8.   Payment for enforcement.
§ 9.   Act applicable only to Dare County.
§ 10.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXXII.
An Act Making a Qualified Exception from the Public Records Act for the Dare
County
and Pamlico County Geographical Information Systems.
§ 1.   Amending Chapter 285, Section 2 of the 1991 Sessions Law.
§ 2.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXXIII.
An Act to Allow the County of Dare to Acquire Property for Use by the County
Board of Education
§ 1.   Amending General Statutes, Section 153A-158.1(e).
Article XXXIV.
An Act to Permit Certain Beautification Districts to Hold ABC Elections.
§ 1.   Amending G.S. § 18B-600.
§ 2.   Effective date; ratification.
Article XXXV.
An Act to Provide that the Laws Relating to Motor Vehicles Apply on Streets
Owned by the Colington Harbour Association, Inc.,
in Dare County, and to Provide that the Town of Manteo May Regulate Noise in
the Atlantic Ocean
And other Waterways Adjacent to that Portion of the Town Within its Boundaries
or Within its Extra Territorial Jurisdiction.
§ 1.   Applicability of General Statutes relating to the Colington Harbour
Association, Inc..
§ 2.   No interference with ownership.
§ 3.   Speed limits unchanged.
§ 4.   Section 2 of Chapter 84 of 1995 Session Laws.
§ 5.   This act applies only to Dare County.
§ 6.   Effective date; ratification.
Editor’s Note:
   Set out in this part, in chronological order, are certain special acts of
the state legislature relating to Dare County. Except for the addition of
catchlines and the use of a uniform system of capitalization and spelling, such
acts remain unchanged from the original enactments. The original titles of the
acts concerned have been used throughout as article heading. Historical
citations following each section indicate the section of the original act from
which such section is derived and, where applicable, the derivation of any
subsequent amendments to such section, which amendments have been worked into
their proper locations in the text.
ARTICLE I. AN ACT TO LAY OFF AND ESTABLISH A NEW COUNTY BY THE NAME OF “DARE.”
Sec. 1. County laid off and established; boundaries.
   That a new county is hereby laid off and established, to be formed out of
portions of Currituck and Tyrrell and Hyde Counties, bounded as follows, to
wit: Beginning in the north of Long Shoals River at a point on the north side
of said river known as Rawls' Point, thence running up said river to the
dividing line between the Counties of Hyde and Tyrrell, thence running west
said line to Alligator River, thence running the various courses of said river
to its mouth, thence running a course across the Albemarle and Currituck
Sounds, so as to strike a point on the Currituck Sound known as Lone Point of
Marsh, thence running a northeast by east course to the Atlantic Ocean, thence
running south along the sea beach to Hatteras Inlet, thence running a direct
course across the Pamlico Sound to the place of beginning.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 1.)
Sec. 2. County vested with rights of counties of state.
   That the County of “Dare” shall be and is hereby invested with all the
rights of the counties of this state except as are hereafter provided.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Certain Township trustees to continue in office; vacancies in township
boards of trustees.
   When the boundary line of said county shall divide any township heretofore
established in either of the Counties of Currituck, Tyrrell or Hyde, any
officer of the township board [of] trustees heretofore elected who shall reside
within said County of “Dare,” shall continue to hold his office and exercise
all the powers thereof in the County of “Dare” to which he was entitled in the
county in which he was elected, and if there be a vacancy in any township board
of trustees, the governor shall fill said vacancy, and the persons by him
appointed shall hold his office until the first Thursday in August in the year
one thousand eight hundred and seventy-one, and until his successor shall have
qualified; and the regular election for said officers shall be held every two
years thereafter.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Appointment, powers and duties and term of first county commissioners;
submission of question of formation of county to voters.
   That the governor shall, immediately after the passage of this act, appoint
five commissioners for said County of “Dare” who shall, according to section
three, article seven of the constitution, perform the duties therein required
of county commissioners, and report to the next session of the general
assembly, and shall hold and exercise all the powers and authorities, and be
subject to the same penalties that county commissioners of the several counties
in this state are subject to, and said commissioners shall hold their offices
till the first Thursday in August in the year one thousand eight hundred and
seventy-two, and until their successors shall have qualified: Provided, that
before the governor makes such appointment he shall, at such time as he may
deem proper and in such way as he may deem best, submit to the qualified voters
embraced in the County of “Dare,” whether they wish said County of “Dare” to be
established. If a majority of the votes be cast for “Dare,” then he shall at
once organize the county as provided in this act: Provided further, that that
portion of the citizens taken from the County of Currituck and attached to the
County of “Dare,” shall not be released from their proportions of the
outstanding county debt contracted for public improvement before the passage of
this act, to be determined by the county commissioners of Currituck and “Dare”
Counties.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Appointment and term of first county clerk.
   That the judge of the superior court in and for the first judicial district
shall appoint a clerk of said county for the County of “Dare,” and the term of
office of said clerk shall terminate at the same time as if he had been elected
at the general election held in April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-
eight.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 5.)
Sec. 6. Extension to county of superior court jurisdiction.
   That the jurisdiction of the superior court be and the same is hereby
extended to and over said County of “Dare” on the same manner as the said court
has in and over the several counties in this state and the judge for the first
judicial district shall hold the superior court for said County of “Dare” on
the sixteenth Monday after the first Monday in March and October, and all cases
both in civil and criminal within the bounds of said County of “Dare” shall be
tried in the said court: Provided, that actions and suits affecting citizens in
the county created by these acts pending in the superior courts of Currituck,
Tyrrell and Hyde Counties may be continued in those counties at the option of
the parties thereto, or of the solicitor, but when such cases and trials shall
be transferred to the superior court of the County of “Dare,” there shall be no
prejudice by reason of such transfer.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 6.)
Sec. 7. Temporary courthouse.
   That it shall be the duty of the county commissioners to procure a suitable
building on Roanoke Island for the holdings of the courts for said county until
a courthouse shall have been erected.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 7.)
Sec. 8.    Use of Pasquotank County jail.
   That all persons who may be liable to imprisonment under any process either
criminal or civil in “Dare” County, before the completion of the public jail in
said county, shall be committed to the jail in Pasquotank County.
(Pub. Laws 1969-70, ch. 36, § 8.)
Sec. 9. Applicability of act relating to townships.
   That the provisions of an act of the general assembly, ratified the tenth
day of April, one thousand eight hundred and sixty-nine, entitled an act
concerning townships, except when the same are inconsistent with the provisions
of this act, shall be extended to the township to be established in said
county.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 86, § 9.)
Sec. 10. When county allowed first member of house of representatives.
   That the said County of “Dare” shall not be allowed a member in the house of
representatives till the next apportionment in the year one thousand eight
hundred and seventy-two.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 10.)
Sec. 11. Senatorial district established.
   That until after the next apportionment the County of “Dare” shall cast
their votes for state senator with the second senatorial district.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36. § 11.)
Sec. 12. Selection of county seat.
   That the county commissioners appointed shall immediately select a site for
the permanent seat of justice for said county, having in view the convenience
and interest of the people in the county, and when they shall have located said
seat of justice, it shall be the duty of said commissioners to purchase, or
receive by donation for the County of “Dare,” a tract of land containing not
less than one acre to be conveyed to the chairman of the board of county
commissioners of said county and their successors in office, which land, when
so purchased or donated, shall be deemed to be held by said chairman and his
successors absolutely in fee simple for said County of “Dare,” upon which tract
of land the courthouse and jail shall be erected, and where after the
completion of the courthouse the courts of said county shall be held.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 12.)
Sec. 13. County commissioners to contract for building of courthouse and jail.
   That said county commissioners shall have full power to contract for the
building of a suitable courthouse and jail for said county, of such size and
dimensions and upon such plan as said commissioners shall determine upon, they
being required to take bond and approved security from the contractors for the
faithful execution of the work.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 13.)
Sec. 14. Appointment of county surveyors.
   That the county commissioners shall as soon as practicable appoint one or
more suitable persons to make a survey and plat of said County of “Dare,” he or
they first taking an oath before some acting justice of the peace for the
faithful discharge of his duty.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 14.)
Sec. 15. Tax levy for purpose of erecting courthouse and jail.
   That the county commissioners shall have power to levy a sufficient tax upon
the property of said county to erect a suitable courthouse and jail in and for
said County of “Dare”: Provided, that said tax shall be collected in the same
manner as other county taxes.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch. 36, § 15.)
Sec. 16. Effective date; ratification.
   That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   Ratified the 3rd day of February, A.D. 1870.
(Pub. Laws 1869-70, ch.36, § 16.)
ARTICLE II. AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE COMMISSIONERS OF DARE COUNTY TO HAVE
TRANSCRIBED DEEDS AND OTHER PAPERS OR RECORDS IN THESE COUNTIES OF HYDE,
TYRRELL, ETC.
Editor’s Note:
   The preamble to Pub. Laws 1876-77, ch. 118, from which this article is
derived, read as follows:
    “Whereas, the County of Dare was created out of the territories of the
Counties of Hyde, Tyrrell and Currituck; and Whereas, the title deeds to the
lands of the said County of Dare are recorded only in the said Counties of
Hyde, Tyrrell and Currituck; therefore, The General Assembly of North Carolina
do enact”:
Sec. 1. Authority granted.
   That the commissioners of the County of Dare are hereby authorized to have
transcribed from the deed books of the said Counties of Hyde, Tyrrell and
Currituck, all deeds of bargain and sale, deeds of trust, mortgages, bonds to
make title, contracts to sell real estate, decrees or orders of court affecting
the title of any real estate now lying in whole or in part, in the said County
of Dare, and record the same, with all the certificates and probates thereto
attached, on the regular deed books of the register's office for the County of
Dare. All papers so transcribed and recorded shall be duly certified as a true
copy of a deed recorded in the office of register of deeds for the County of
        .
(Pub. Laws 1876-77, ch. 118, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Effect of transcription and recording of deeds, mortgages, etc.,
requiring registration.
   All deeds, deeds of trust, mortgages, or other instruments of writing,
requiring registration, when so transcribed and recorded as above prescribed,
shall, in all respects, have the same effect as if they had been originally
registered in the County of Dare when said County of Dare was first created.
(Pub. Laws 1876-77, ch. 118, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Compensation.
   And said commissioners are hereby authorized to make reasonable compensation
for the same.
(Pub. Laws 1876-77, ch. 118, § 3.)
Sec. 4 Effective date; ratification.
   That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   Ratified the 23rd day of February, A. D. 1877. (Pub. Laws 1876-77, ch. 118,
§ 4.)
ARTICLE III. AN ACT TO ESTABLISH THE DIVIDING LINES BETWEEN CERTAIN SOUNDS IN
DARE COUNTY, RELATIVE TO THE ENFORCEMENT OF THE LAWS IN THE SAID SOUNDS BY THE
FISH COMMISSIONER.
Sec. 1. Line established.
   That the dividing line between Albemarle and Croatan, Croatan and Roanoke,
Croatan and Pamlico, Roanoke and Pamlico Sounds shall be the same as dotted red
lines on chart number one hundred and forty, special issue by the United States
Coast and Geodetic Survey of February, one thousand nine hundred and eleven.
(Pub. Laws 1911, ch. 178, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Effective date; ratification.
   That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   Ratified this the 8th day of March, A. D. 1911.
(Pub. Laws 1911, ch. 178, § 2.)
ARTICLE IV. AN ACT ALLOWING ATLANTIC TOWNSHIP, CURRITUCK COUNTY, TO BECOME PART
OF DARE COUNTY BY ACT OF THE VOTERS OF SAID TOWNSHIP.
Sec. 1. Special election to be held on Petition; advertising election.
   That, upon the written petition submitted to the board of county
commissioners of Currituck County by one-third of the qualified voters of
Atlantic Township, Currituck County, requesting an election to determine
whether or not said Atlantic Township shall be added to Dare County, it shall
be the duty of the said board of county commissioners to call an election to be
held in said Atlantic Township at some time not less than thirty days from the
date of said order, and to advertise said election in some newspaper having
circulation in said township and in at least three public places.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Qualifications of voters and method of conducting special election.
   The qualified voters at the said election shall be those qualified to vote
at the preceding regular November election and those who may become of age and
qualified since the preceding regular November election. The board of county
commissioners of Currituck County shall determine the qualifications of those
entitled to vote in a special election held under this act, and any decision of
the county commissioners on this subject shall be final and conclusive. The
election held under the provisions of this act shall be conducted in the same
manner as is now or may hereafter be prescribed by law for holding elections
for members of the general assembly, except as herein provided: Provided, that
the said board of county commissioners shall appoint registrars of election,
judges, or inspectors, and any other election officers, and that registration
and challenge of voters shall be conducted in the same manner as is now or may
hereafter be provided for the election of members of the general assembly.
(Pub.-Loc; Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Form of ballots; count and return of votes; reports of result to Dare
County board of commissioners.
    That at the said election held under the provisions of this act the ballots
tendered and cast by the voters shall have written or printed upon them “For
Annexation to Dare County,” or “Against Annexation to Dare County”; and all
electors who favor such annexation shall vote a ballot having written or
printed thereon “For Annexation to Dare County,” and those opposed to
annexation shall vote a ballot having written or printed thereon “Against
Annexation to Dare County.” The votes shall be counted at the close of the
polls and returned to the board of county commissioners or clerk of the board
of county commissioners within three days after the election, and said board
shall tabulate and declare the result of the election not later than the next
regular meeting of the said board following the return of the vote of the said
election; all of which shall be recorded in the minutes of the said board of
county commissioners, and no other recording of the same shall be necessary.
The result of the vote shall be counted, declared, and reported to the board of
county commissioners as prescribed by law for the election of the members of
the general assembly. Immediately upon the declaration of the result of the
election the said board of county commissioners of Currituck County shall
notify the board of county commissioners of Dare County of the same.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Effective date of annexation; name of township; line to be surveyed and
marked.
   That if a majority of the votes cast in the said election shall be “For
Annexation to Dare County,” then the said Atlantic Township shall, upon the
first Monday succeeding the declaration by the board of county commissioners of
Currituck County of the result of the election, become and be a part of Dare
County and shall be subject to all laws relating to such county. The said
township shall be known as Atlantic Township, Dare County. The board of
commissioners of the said Counties of Currituck and Dare shall cause a line
between Atlantic Township and Currituck County to be distinctly and definitely
located, surveyed and marked according to the rules for settling county lines
prescribed by the general laws of the state, within six months from the date of
the transfer of the said territory.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, Ch. 163, § 4.)
Editor's note:
    For additional legislative acts concerning establishment of boundary
between Dare and Currituck Counties, see Pub.-Loc. Laws, Extra Session 1920,
ch. 202 (article VI of this part) and Pub.-Loc. Laws 1927, ch. 382 (article VII
of this part).
Sec. 5. Annexed property not to be taxed for bonded indebtedness.
   That the property lying within the said Atlantic Township annexed as
provided in this act shall not be taxed to meet any part of such bonded
indebtedness as may be upon the County of Dare at the time of annexation, and
said Atlantic Township shall be in no way liable for said bonded indebtedness.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 5.)
Sec. 6. Collection of taxes already levied by Currituck County.
   That all taxes that have been levied by the County of Currituck for property
in Atlantic Township and that may be due at the time of transfer shall remain
and be the property of Currituck County and shall be collectible by said
county, and the officers of said County of Currituck shall have full and ample
authority and power to enter upon said territory for the purpose of collecting
or enforcing the payment of such taxes, and to that end shall remain clothed
with all the power heretofore vested in them by law.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 6.)
Sec. 7. Justices of peace to continue to hold office.
   That all justices of the peace residing in the said Atlantic Township at the
time of the said transfer to Dare County shall continue to hold their offices
and shall be to all intents and purpose justices of the peace of Atlantic
Township, Dare County, until the expiration of their terms of office.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 7.)
Sec. 8. Jurisdiction of causes not affected.
   That the jurisdiction of all causes, either civil or criminal, commenced or
pending in the Superior Court of Currituck County prior to the transfer of
territory provided for in this act shall be unaffected by said transfer.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 8.)
Sec. 9. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of this
act are hereby repealed.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 9.)
Sec. 10. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
    Ratified this 7th day of March, A. D. 1919.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1919, ch. 163, § 10.)
   ARTICLE V. AN ACT TO INCREASE THE MEMBERSHIP OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
OF DARE COUNTY.
Sec. 1. Board of commissioners to consist of five persons, effective first
Monday in December, 1920; election to be held every two years.
   That on and after the first Monday in December, one thousand nine hundred
and twenty, the board of commissioners for the County of Dare shall consist of
five persons, to be elected at the next general election to be held in the year
one thousand nine hundred and twenty and every two years thereafter.
(Pub. Laws, Extra Sess. 1920, ch. 96, § 1.)
Editor’s Note:
   For later provisions concerning election of commissioners, see Sess. Laws
1947, ch. 343, as amended (article XIII of this part).
Sec. 2. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.
(Pub. Laws, Extra Sess. 1920, ch. 96, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Effective date; ratification.
   That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   Ratified this 23rd day of August, A.D. 1920.
(Pub. Laws, Extra Sess. 1920, ch. 96, § 3.)
ARTICLE VI. AN ACT TO ESTABLISH THE LINE BETWEEN ATLANTIC TOWNSHIP, DARE
COUNTY, AND POPLAR BRANCH TOWNSHIP, CURRITUCK COUNTY, AND TO REGULATE FISHING
IN ATLANTIC TOWNSHIP.
Editor’s Note:
   See also Pub.-Loc. Laws 1927, ch. 382 (article VII of this part).
Sec. 1. Boundary defined; fisheries commission board to mark and buoy line in
Currituck Sound.
   That the line marking the northern boundary of Atlantic Township (now a part
of Dare County) shall be a line running east and west as agreed upon by E.R.
Johnson and B.G. Crisp, commissioners appointed by the boards of commissioners
of Currituck and Dare Counties, respectively, in pursuance of section four,
chapter one hundred and sixty-three, Public Laws of nineteen and nineteen, as
located upon the land and extending to the middle of Currituck Sound, and the
western boundary of said township shall extend with the middle of Currituck
Sound, southward from said northern limit to Albemarle Sound, and it shall be
the duty of the fisheries commission board to mark and buoy the said line in
Currituck Sound as provided for marking other fishing territory.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws, Extra Sess. 1920, ch. 202, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Certain fishing laws repealed.
   That all laws relating to fishing in Currituck Sound, or any part thereof
now in Dare County so far as the same apply to Atlantic Township as above
defined, are hereby repealed.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws; Extra Sess. 1920, ch. 202, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Effective date; ratification.
   That this act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   Ratified this 26th day of August, A.D. 1920.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws, Extra Sess. 1920, ch. 202, § 3.)
ARTICLE VII. AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE BOARDS OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DARE AND
CURRITUCK COUNTIES TO ESTABLISH AND MARK THE DIVIDING LINE BETWEEN SAID
COUNTIES.
Editor’s Note:
   The preamble to Public-Local Laws 1927, chapter 382, from which this article
is derived, read as follows: whereas, under section four of chapter one hundred
and sixty-three of the Public Laws of one thousand nine hundred and nineteen,
the boards of commissioners of the Counties of Dare and Currituck caused a line
between Atlantic Township, in Dare County, and Currituck County to be located
and marked; and, Whereas, due report of same was made to the boards of
commissioners of said counties but therefore, “The General Assembly of North
Carolina do enact”: See also Pub.-Loc. Laws, Extra Sess. 1920, ch. 202 (article
VI of this part).
Sec. 1. Commission to be established; each county to bear one-half of expenses;
compensation of commission.
   That the boards of commissioners of Dare and Currituck Counties are hereby
authorized and directed to appoint one person from each county to constitute a
commission to establish and mark the dividing line between Atlantic Township,
Dare County, and Currituck County, and make due report thereof to the board of
county commissioners of each county, the same to be recorded in the office of
the register of deeds of each county; each county bearing one-half of the
expenses of said commission. The county commissioners of each county may fix
such compensation for the men so appointed as they deem proper.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1927, ch. 382, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Fisheries commission board to mark boundary.
   That the fisheries commission board shall mark the boundary so established
by the above commission.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1927, Ch. 382, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of this
act are hereby repealed.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1927, ch. 382, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Effective date; ratification.
   That this act shall be in force and effect from and after its ratification.
   Ratified this the 3rd day of March, A.D. 1927.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1927, ch. 382, § 4.)
   ARTICLE VIII. AN ACT TO CONSOLIDATE THE TOWNSHIPS OF HATTERAS AND KENNAKEET
IN DARE COUNTY, AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE ELECTION OF ONE MEMBER OF THE COUNTY
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS AND ONE MEMBER OF THE COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION FROM
SUCH CONSOLIDATED TOWNSHIP.
Sec. 1. Townships consolidated; name of consolidated township.
   That the Townships of Hatteras and Kennakeet in Dare County be and the same
are hereby consolidated into one township to be known as Hatteras-Kennakeet
Township for the purposes set out in this act only.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1933, ch. 465, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Representation of consolidated township on boards of commissioners and
of education of Dare County.
   That Hatteras-Kennakeet Township in its representation on the board of
commissioners of Dare County shall be entitled to one and only one member, and
in its representation on the board of education of Dare County shall be
entitled to one and only one member.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1933, ch. 465, § 2.)
Editor’s Note:
   For later provisions as to composition and election of board of
commissioners and board of education, see Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 343, as amended
(article XIII of this part).
Sec. 3. Nomination of township candidate for board of commissioners.
   That at the regular time for holding primaries in Dare County for the
nomination of candidates for the various county offices of said county there
shall be nominated by the Democratic electors of said township one Democratic
candidate for county commissioner and who, by the board of elections of said
county, shall be regularly and duly certified as one of the Democratic nominees
for said board of commissioners, and whose name shall be placed upon the county
ticket along with the names of all other nominees of said county, to be voted
upon by the electors as a whole in the general election for said county.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1933, ch. 465, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Nomination of township candidate for board of education.
   That at the regular time for holding primaries in Dare County for the
nomination of candidates for the various county offices in said county there
shall be nominated by the Democratic electors of said township one Democratic
candidate for the board of education of Dare County and who, by the board of
elections of said county, shall be regularly and duly certified as one of the
Democratic nominees for the board of education of Dare County.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1933, ch. 465, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1933, ch. 465, § 5.)
Sec. 6. Effective date; ratification.
   That this act shall be in force and effect from and after its ratification.
   Ratified this the 8th day of May, A.D. 1933.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1933, ch. 465, § 6.)
   ARTICLE IX. AN ACT TO CREATE A FIRE DISTRICT FOR THE PURPOSE OF LEVYING
TAXES THEREIN CONSISTING OF ROANOKE ISLAND OUTSIDE OF MANTEO AND AUTHORIZING
COOPERATION WITH MANTEO IN FIRE PROTECTION.
Sec. 1. Roanoke Island Fire District created; composition and purpose.
   A fire district to be known as the Roanoke Island Fire District is hereby
created as a municipal corporation. Said fire district consists of all of
Roanoke Island in Dare County, North Carolina, except that part thereof within
the corporate limits of Manteo. The said fire district is hereby created for
the purpose of providing means to secure fire protection for property within
said district.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1937, ch. 246, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Annual tax levy.
   For the purpose of providing funds for securing fire protection in said
district, the board of commissioners of Dare County are hereby authorized and
empowered to annually levy taxes on all real and personal property within said
district at a rate not exceeding twenty-five cents ($.25) on each one hundred
dollars ($100.00) in value on taxable property therein. The valid tax is to be
levied at the same time other taxes are levied in said county and collected in
the same manner as other taxes are collected.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1937, ch. 246, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Tax proceeds to be paid to Town of Manteo.
   That the board of commissioners of Dare County are authorized, empowered and
directed to cause to be paid over to the governing authorities of the Town of
Manteo all of the proceeds of taxes levied and collected under the authority of
this act, and said taxes so levied and collected shall be used exclusively for
said purpose.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1937, ch. 246, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Town of Manteo to use tax funds for Providing and maintaining fire
equipment and providing fire protection within fire district.
   That the governing authorities of the Town of Manteo are authorized and
empowered to receive the funds collected from taxes levied as aforesaid and use
said funds exclusively for the purpose of providing fire equipment, maintaining
same and providing fire protection within the fire district herein organized,
or using the same in conjunction with taxes levied and collected by the Town of
Manteo and used for maintaining its fire department. The Town of Manteo is
hereby fully authorized and empowered to provide fire protection within the
said fire district and make provision for the purchase of suitable fire
fighting equipment, which may be necessary for providing reasonable fire
protection within said territory. Fire fighting equipment purchased by funds
from taxation within said district shall remain the property of the said
district and shall be plainly designated by proper markings thereon indicating
ownership thereof, but same shall be and remain in the custody and control of
the Town of Manteo for use by its fire department which shall serve jointly the
Town of Manteo and the said fire district.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1937, ch. 246, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Town of Manteo to make annual report to Dare County board of
commissioners.
   The governing authorities of the Town of Manteo shall annually on or before
the first day of June in each year, make a report to the board of commissioners
of Dare County, giving full information as to funds received from the taxes
herein levied and the use and application thereof, and shall at the same time
furnish to the said board of commissioners of Dare County [a report] covering
the activities authorized by and under the provisions of this act.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1937, ch. 246, § 5.)
Editor’s Note:
   The words “[a report]” near the end of this section did not appear in the
original act but ere added by the editor.
Sec. 6. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and parts of laws in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1937, ch. 246, § 6.)
Sec. 7. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall be in full force and effect from and after its ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 10th day of
March, A.D. 1937.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1937, ch. 246, § 7.)
   ARTICLE X. AN ACT TO ESTABLISH A QUASI-PUBLIC CORPORATION TO BE KNOWN AS THE
DARE COUNTY COMMUNITY CENTER.
Sec. 1. Dare County Community Center created; purpose.
   That a quasi-public corporation to be known as the Dare County Community
Center is hereby created for the purpose of acquiring, maintaining and
operating a community building and public grounds in the Town of Manteo in Dare
County.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1930, ch. 542, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Composition, selection and terms of board of trustees; vacancies on
board of trustees.
   The governing body of the Dare County Community Center shall be a board of
trustees composed of five members who shall be elected by the county
commissioners and the county board of education in joint session. Within thirty
days after the ratification of this act the chairman of the board of county
commissioners shall call a joint session of the board of county commissioners
and the board of education for the purpose of selecting five trustees, who
shall serve until the first day of January one thousand nine hundred forty-
three, or until their successors are duly elected and qualified, and thereafter
shall be elected for a term of four years. Any vacancy occurring by death,
resignation or removal for other cause, shall be filled by the county
commissioners and the county board of education in joint session.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1939, ch. 542, § 2.)
Sec. 3. County board of education to convey certain land.
   The board of education of Dare County is hereby authorized and directed to
make, execute and deliver to the Dare County Community Center, without
consideration, a deed conveying the tract of land now owned by the said board
of education of Dare County, upon which the community building now stands, and
which was a part of the tract of land upon which the old Manteo School was
located, the said lot located in the Northeast intersection of the North
Carolina State Highway, number three hundred forty-five and Highway Street in
the Town of Manteo.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1939, ch. 542, § 3.)
  Sec. 4. Powers and duties of board of trustees.
   The board of trustees of the Dare County Community Center shall have full
power and authority to acquire by purchase, gift, or otherwise, lands, property
or equipment for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this act; to
dispose of same by public or private sale; to lease any part of parts of said
building or grounds for such consideration as the board of trustees shall deem
to be adequate, and any money received in consideration of any such lease shall
be used by the board of trustees for the maintenance and improvement of the
buildings and grounds; to mortgage or otherwise encumber its property for the
purpose of borrowing money in carrying out the provisions of this act; to
execute any note or other paper required to complete any loan or other
transaction; and to control, manage and operate its buildings and grounds, and
to make any rules and regulations necessary for the proper administration of
the Dare County Community Center and for the purpose of carrying out the
provisions of this act.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1939, ch. 542, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   That all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of this
act are hereby repealed.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1939, ch. 542, § 5.)
Sec. 6. Effective date; ratification.
   That this act shall be in full force and effect from and after its
ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 3rd day of
April, 1939.
(Pub.-Loc. Laws 1939, ch. 542, § 6.)
   ARTICLE XI. AN ACT TO PROHIBIT THE OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES IN CERTAIN
BEACH AREAS IN DARE COUNTY.
Sec. 1. Operation of motor vehicles or aircraft prohibited in described areas.
   Except as provided in section 2 of this act it shall be unlawful for any
person to operate any motor vehicle, or land or take off in any aircraft,
except in case of emergency, within a beach area in Dare County described as
follows:
    Beginning at a point, the northeast corner of the Wright Memorial Bridge,
running thence in a straight line directly east to the low tidewater line on
the ocean front, thence in a southerly direction along the ocean front with the
low tidewater line, twenty miles more or less to a point in said low tidewater
line, said point being directly east of the southeast corner of the Roanoke
Sound Bridge; thence in a straight line directly west to the southeast corner
of the Roanoke Sound Bridge; thence with the eastern right-of-way line of U. S.
Highway No. 158 to the point of beginning.
   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to that portion of the beach
area beginning at a point in the low tidewater line on the ocean front directly
east of the southeast corner of the Roanoke Sound Bridge and running thence in
a southeasterly direction with the low tidewater line a distance of eight miles
to a point on the low tidewater line, thence in a line directly west to a point
where said line intersects the eastern boundary line of the proposed extension
of the highway leading in a southerly direction toward Oregon Inlet, thence in
a northerly direction along the eastern boundary line of said highway to a
point therein directly west of the point of beginning, thence in a direct
easterly line to the point of beginning.
   The provisions of this chapter shall also apply to that portion of the beach
area beginning at a point on the low tidewater line on the Atlantic Ocean front
which said point is intersected by an extension of the northern margin of the
right of way of U. S. Highway No. 158, extending from Wright Memorial Bridge to
the Dare Beach area and the Atlantic Ocean, and running thence in a northerly
direction along the low tidewater line on the Atlantic Ocean front a distance
of four miles more or less to the northern boundary of that subdivision known
as Hargraves Beach, map or plat of said subdivision being recorded in map book
2, page 3, in the public registry of Dare County, North Carolina, and running
thence in a westerly direction along the northern boundary of Hargraves Beach
to the eastern margin of that North Carolina state paved highway extending from
Kitty Hawk to Duck, North Carolina and running thence in a general southerly
direction along the eastern margin of the aforesaid North Carolina state
highway to its point of intersection with U.S. Highway No. 158 and running
thence in an easterly direction along the northern margin of the right of way
of U.S. Highway No. 158, or an extension thereof, to the point of beginning.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 192, § 1; Sess. Laws 1951, ch. 305, § 1; Sess. Laws 1959,
ch. 503, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Exceptions.
   The prohibitions against the operation of motor vehicles contained in this
act shall not apply to motor vehicles operated upon any regularly established
or dedicated road or driveway nor to the operation of motor vehicles on private
property by the owners of such property, or members or their immediate family,
or by bona fide guest with the written permission of such owner; neither shall
the prohibitions contained in this act apply to the official operation of motor
vehicles or aircraft belonging to or used by the United States Coast Guard
Service.
   The prohibitions contained in this act shall not apply to the operation of
motor vehicles or automotive equipment belonging to and used and operated by
commercial fishermen only while and as such fishermen are actually engaged in
fishing or setting of seines from or in the Atlantic Ocean. Provided, however,
that commercial fishermen engaged in fishing or setting of nets or seines in
the Atlantic Ocean abutting private property shall have the permission of such
abutting property owners and provided that nothing in this act shall be
construed to authorize, permit or allow commercial fishermen or any other
persons to drive across, enter upon or conduct their fishing operations on any
private property other than that owned or leased by them except for permission
of the owners in the above described areas.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 102, § 2; Sess. Laws 1957, ch. 1035, § 1; Sess. Laws
1967, ch. 472, § 1.)
Sec. 2-A. Removal of waste, etc., from beach after fishing operation.
   That commercial fishermen and all other persons fishing or operating nets
and seines on the shore of the Atlantic Ocean in the area above referred to in
Dare County shall immediately after making a haul or completing a fishing
operation in the said area, before leaving the set, remove from the beach and
site of said operation all trash, crabs, skates, dogfish, all waste, residue
and all marine life which is caught and brought ashore in the aforesaid sets or
seines from the Atlantic Ocean in connection with the said operation and the
equipment used in said operation shall likewise be removed from the beach and
the site of said operation. Said deposit, fish and marine life, shall be
cleaned up, removed and carried away from the site and disposed of in a lawful
manner so as not to constitute a nuisance and health hazard to residents and
property owners. The said fish, residue, waste and marine life shall not be
thrown back or deposited in the ocean.
(Sess. Laws 1957, ch. 1035, § 2; Sess. Laws 1967, ch. 472, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Penalties.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this act
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punishable by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisonment for not less than thirty days, or
both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 192, § 3; Sess. Laws 1957, ch. 1035, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 192, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall be in force from and after its ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 28th day of
February, 1947.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 192, § 5.)
   ARTICLE XII. AN ACT TO PREVENT THE DEPOSITING OF TRASH, TIN CANS, AND LITTER
UPON THE LANDS OF ANOTHER ON ROANOKE ISLAND AND ON THE BEACH BETWEEN WRIGHT
MEMORIAL BRIDGE AND ROANOKE ISLAND BRIDGE IN DARE COUNTY WITHOUT WRITTEN
CONSENT.
Sec. 1. Depositing trash, debris, litter, etc., upon lands of another
prohibited without owner’s consent.
   Any person, not being on his own lands, who shall deposit any trash, debris,
garbage, junk, tin cans, litter, or refuse materials of any kind or description
upon the lands of another without the written consent of the owner shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction fined not exceeding fifty dollars
($50.00) or imprisoned not exceeding thirty (30) days.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 233, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Area to which act applicable.
   That this act shall apply to Roanoke Island and the beach between Wright
Memorial Bridge and Roanoke Island Bridge in Dare County only.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 233, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act are
hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 233, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Effective date; ratification.
   An emergency existing with respect to the matters hereinbefore set forth and
the public interest requiring it, this act shall become effective immediately
upon ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 5th day of
March, 1947.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 233, § 4.)
   ARTICLE XIII. AN ACT RELATING TO THE NOMINATION AND THE ELECTION OF COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS AND MEMBERS OF THE COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION BY DISTRICTS IN DARE
COUNTY.
Editor’s note:
   For legislative act allowing the Board of Commissioners to redistrict its
residency districts and change the manner of election of Board of
Commissioners, see Pub. Laws, Extra Sess. 1991, Ch. 2, (article XXVIII of this
part).
Sec. 1. Districts established.
   (A)   Beginning on the first Monday in December of 1994 the Dare County
Board of Education shall consist of seven members. One members shall be an at-
large member and may reside anywhere in the county, and the other six members
shall reside in and represent the following districts.
   District 1: This district shall consist of the mainland portion of the
county and Roanoke Island and shall have two members.
   District 2: This district shall consist of the town of Nags Head and all of
Bodie Island south to Oregon Inlet, and the town of Kill Devil Hills and
adjacent or near unincorporated areas to the west including, but not limited
to, Colington Islands and Baum Bay Harbor. This district shall have two
members.
   District 3: This district shall consist of the towns of Kitty Hawk and
Southern Shores and the remainder of the county west and north of the town of
Southern Shores. This district shall have one member.
   District 4: This district shall consist of Hatteras Island and shall have
one member.
(Sess. Laws 1947, ch. 343, § 1; Sess. Laws. 1979, ch. 654, § 1.)
Sec. 2 Candidates must reside in district.
   Except for the at-large seat, a person must reside in a district to be
eligible to be a candidate, be elected or serve as a member representing that
district.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 2)
Sec. 3 Elections.
   All elections for the Board of Education shall be nonpartisan, with the
results determined by a plurality with no run-offs. All voters in the county
shall be eligible to vote for all seven seats on the board.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 3)
Sec. 4. Members; vacancies
   The three members of the Board of Education elected in 1992 for terms to
expire in 1996 shall serve the remainder of those terms. On the first Monday in
December 1994, Allen Burrus is designated as the member from District 4, David
Daniels as one of the two members from District 2, and Samuel Twiford, Jr., as
the at-large member. If Mr. Burrus or Mr. Daniels resigns, dies, moves from his
district, or otherwise vacates his office, the person appointed to fill the
vacancy shall reside in the same district as the vacating member.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 4)
Sec. 5. Representative of districts.
   Pursuant to Chapter 819 of the Session Laws of 1989, two members were
elected in May 1994 to take office on the first Monday in December 1994. By
July 15, 1994, those two new members shall be designated by the Board of
Education as representatives of the districts described in Section 1 according
to their residency, and upon taking office in December 1994, those two new
members shall be considered representatives of the districts so designated.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 5)
Sec. 6. Additional members; notice of candidacy.
   (a)    Two additional members shall be elected to the Board of Education at
the county general election to be held on November 8, 1994, and shall take
office on the first Monday in December 1994. The seats to be elected in
November shall be determined by the Board of Education after the two members
elected in May 1994 have been designated as representatives of districts
pursuant to Section 5. After determining which of the seven seats on the board,
as described in Section 1, will be filled by the three holdover members elected
in 1992 plus the two new members elected in May 1994, the Board of Education
shall notify the Dare County Board of Elections to conduct the November 1994
election for the remaining two seats necessary to bring the board to the
composition described in Section 1. The Board of Education shall notify the
Board of Elections by July 22, 1994, which two seats are to be elected in
November.
   (b)    The period in which candidates may file notices of candidacy for the
November 1994 Board of Education election shall begin at noon on Monday, August
1, 1994, and close at noon on Friday, August 26, 1994.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 6)
Sec. 7. Expiration.
   The members elected in May or November 1994 shall serve terms to expire in
1998.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 7)
Sec. 8. 1996 election.
   In 1996 three members shall be elected to the board as follows: the at-large
member and one member each from Districts 2 and 4.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 8)
Sec. 9. 1998 election.
   In 1998 four members shall be elected to the board as follows: the at-large
member, two members from District 1, and one member each from Districts 2 and
3. The candidate for the District 1 seat receiving the most votes shall be
elected for a four-year term, and the candidate for the District 1 seat
receiving the second highest number of votes shall be elected for a two-year
term.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 9)
Sec. 10. 2000 election.
   In 2000 and every four years thereafter, four members shall be ejected to
the board as follows: the at-large member and one member each from Districts 1,
2, and 4.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 10)
Sec. 11. 2002 election.
   In 2002 and every four years thereafter, four members shall be elected to
the board as follows: one member each from Districts 1, 2, and 3.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 11)
Sec. 12. Time of election and expiration.
   Elections for the Board of Education in 1996 shall be held in May at the
same time as party primaries for other county offices, and board members shall
take office in December following the election as provided in general State
law. In 1998 and subsequent years, elections shall also be held in May at the
same time as party primaries for other county offices, but board members
elected at that time shall take office at the first regular board meeting in
July following the election. The terms of office of persons elected for terms
to expire in 1998 and thereafter shall expire on the date of the first regular
board meeting in July.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 12)
Sec. 13. Chapter repealed.
   Chapter 819 of the Session Laws of 1989 is repealed, but such repeal shall
not affect the terms of members elected pursuant to that act except as
specifically altered by this act.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 654, § 13)
Sec. 14 Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 1st day of
July, 1994.
(Sess. Laws, 1993, ch. 654, § 14)
   ARTICLE XIV. AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DARE
COUNTY TO ADOPT RULES AND REGULATIONS REGULATING OR PROHIBITING THE USE OF
LOUDSPEAKERS AND OTHER PUBLIC ADDRESS AND BROADCASTING SYSTEMS WITHIN CERTAIN
BEACH AREAS IN SAID COUNTY.
Sec. 1. Authority granted.
   The board of county commissioners of Dare County is hereby authorized and
empowered, in its discretion, to adopt or enact by resolution of the board,
rules and ordinances regulating or prohibiting, as to time and place, the use
of loudspeakers or public address or broadcasting systems within any populated
beach areas designated in such resolution and lying in Dare County between the
Wright Memorial Bridge and Oregon Inlet.
(Sess. Laws 1951, ch. 1234, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Effective date of rules or ordinances adopted pursuant to act.
   Any rule or ordinance adopted or enacted pursuant to this act shall become
effective from and after ten days following its publication in a newspaper
published in Dare County, one such publication being sufficient compliance with
the requirements of this act.
(Sess. Laws 1951, ch. 1234, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Penalties for violations of rules or ordinances.
   Any person, firm, association or corporation violating any rule or ordinance
adopted or enacted pursuant to this act shall, upon conviction or submission,
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not in excess of fifty dollars
($50.00) or imprisonment not in excess of 30 days.
(Sess. Laws 1951, ch. 1234, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1951, ch. 1234, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall become effective upon ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 14th day of
April, 1951.
(Sess. Laws 1951, ch. 1234, § 5.)
   ARTICLE XV. AN ACT FOR THE PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE ON CERTAIN PORTIONS OF THE
BEACH AND ON ROANOKE ISLAND IN DARE COUNTY.
Sec. 1. Possession and use of rifles and air rifles restricted in certain
areas.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or have in his possession any and
all rifles and air rifles, on that part of the beach on the east side of
Highway No. 158 in Dare County, extending in a northwesterly direction from
Oregon Inlet to the dividing line between Currituck and Dare Counties, except
when same are stored or kept in a residence or place of business and while
being transported to and from use elsewhere. It shall also be unlawful for any
person to use or have in his possession any and all rifles and air rifles, on
Roanoke Island, Dare County, except when stored or kept in a residence or place
of business and while being transported to and from use elsewhere.
(Sess. Laws 1955, ch. 610, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Penalties.
   Any person violating the provisions of this act shall, upon conviction, be
fined not more than fifty dollars ($50.00) or imprisoned not more than thirty
(30) days, in the discretion of the court.
(Sess. Laws 1955, ch. 610, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1955, ch. 610, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall be in full force and effect from and after its ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 15th day of
April, 1955.
(Sess. Laws 1955, ch. 610, § 4.)
ARTICLE XVI. AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DARE
COUNTY TO ESTABLISH, MAINTAIN, DEVELOP AND IMPROVE WATERWAYS IN DARE COUNTY.
Sec. 1. Board of commissioners authorized to investigate need for waterways,
etc., upon petition.
   The board of county commissioners of Dare County is hereby authorized, upon
written petition of the citizens and residents of any community in Dare County
requesting a project for the establishment, maintenance, improvement or
development of any canal, ditch, creek, stream, waterway or wharf, to
investigate the need within the county for such proposed project.
(Sess. Laws 1959, ch. 825, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Board of commissioners to make findings of fact.
   The board of commissioners of Dare County, pursuant to the petition set
forth in section 1, shall by resolution, duly adopted, find the following
facts:
   (a)   That the establishment, maintenance, improvement or development of the
waterway project designated in such petition is necessary and desirable to the
economic growth of the community; that it will enhance the livelihood and
earning power of the citizens of the community; and that the project will
encourage investment of capital within the community and county with subsequent
increase in value of taxable properties within the county;
   (b)   That no substantial damage shall accrue to lands and adjacent
waterways by reason of such establishment, maintenance, improvement or
development of the proposed project;
   (c)   That there has been acquired sufficient rights-of-way with a minimum
width of sixty (60) feet for access to and from such project to the public
roads and state highways; and that sufficient lands have been acquired and
dedicated to public use for the establishment, maintenance, improvement or
development of the proposed project;
   (d)   That the citizens or residents of the county or community affected by
such project have provided one-half of the funds necessary for the proposed
project. Provided, however, that there may be included in the community's share
of such project the fair market value of lands acquired, based on the
valuations appearing of record for tax purposes on the county tax books, and
the value of such labor and materials or supplies which may have been donated
and accepted by the contractor awarded the proposed project.
(Sess. Laws 1959, ch. 825, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Board of commissioners to proceed with project after findings of fact.
   After the board of county commissioners of Dare County has adopted a
resolution finding the facts set forth in section 2, then said board of county
commissioners is authorized and empowered to order, provide for and accomplish
the establishment, maintenance, improvement or development of the proposed
waterway improvement project set forth in the petition.
(Sess. Laws 1959, ch. 825, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Authority to expend funds.
   The board of county commissioners of Dare County shall be authorized, in its
discretion, to expend any non-ad valorem tax funds of the county which have
been unappropriated and which may be available for any of the purposes set
forth in this act. The said board shall also be authorized to expend any funds
which may be donated to the county from any other source.
(Sess. Laws 1959, ch. 825, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Authority to participate in matching fund programs, etc.
   The board of county commissioners of Dare County may, in its discretion,
apply for and participate in such matching fund programs, which may from time
to time become available through agencies of the state or the United States.
The said board of commissioners may expend any of the funds provided for under
this act for the purpose of providing Dare County’s part for any waterway
project which has been or may be hereafter approved by the state or federal
government or any agency thereof.
(Sess. Laws 1959, ch. 825, § 5.)
Sec. 6. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of this act are
hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1959, ch. 825, § 6.)
Sec. 7. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall be in full force and effect from and after its ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 9th day of
June, 1959.
(Sess. Laws 1959, ch. 825, § 7.)
   ARTICLE XVII. AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS OF DARE
COUNTY TO ESTABLISH THE OFFICE OF TAX COLLECTOR, AND TO TRANSFER ALL OF THE
DUTIES, POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF TAX COLLECTION TO THE OFFICE OF TAX
COLLECTOR, AND TO RELIEVE THE SHERIFF OF TAX COLLECTIONS.
Sec. 1. Authority granted.
   The board of county commissioners of Dare County is authorized to create and
establish the office of “tax collector” and to relieve the sheriff of Dare
County from all his duties and responsibilities relating to the collection of
taxes and to transfer and assign all of the duties, powers and responsibilities
now vested in the office of sheriff, relating to the collection of taxes, of
whatever kind and nature, both current and delinquent. to the office of “tax
collector.”
(Sess. Laws 1963, ch. 83, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Appointment, term, compensation and bond of tax collector; employment
of other personnel.
   In the event said board of commissioners exercise the authority vested in
them by section 1 hereof, the board shall appoint some qualified person to fill
said office of “tax collector,” to serve at the will of the board and until his
successor is duly appointed and qualified, who shall receive a salary to be
fixed by the board of county commissioners. And the board is further authorized
to employ and pay personnel as it may designate in connection with the office
of “tax collector.” Such officer shall give bond in some surety company
authorized to do business in North Carolina in the sum of at least twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00), which shall be approved by the board of
commissioners, who may pay the premiums thereon.
(Sess. Laws 1963, ch. 83, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Powers and duties of tax collector.
   The duties of the “tax collector” appointed under the provisions of this act
shall include the collection of all taxes of whatever nature, penalties,
interests and costs due the county, both current and delinquent, the collection
of which is now imposed upon the sheriff of Dare County. The “tax collector”
appointed under the provisions of this act is hereby vested with all of the
powers with respect to the methods of collection of taxes and enforcement and
collection of tax liens, now vested by law in the sheriff of Dare County. The
“tax collector” shall take an oath of office as prescribed by law. The “tax
collector” shall regularly, and at least monthly, file full and complete report
with the board of commissioners accounting for all taxes in his hands for
collection. The “tax collector” shall not be allowed to engage in any other
gainful occupation, but shall give his full time to the duties imposed upon him
as “tax collector” by this act, and such additional duties as may be imposed
upon him by the board of commissioners.
(Sess. Laws 1963, ch. 83, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Settlement for taxes with tax collector upon appointment.
   Upon the appointment of the “tax collector” of Dare County, and upon his
qualifying under the provisions of this act, the sheriff of Dare County, or any
other persons having in his hands tax funds or any evidence of uncollected
taxes due Dare County, shall make full and complete settlement for all taxes
with which they are then charged, and thereupon all uncollected tax accounts
owing the said County of Dare shall be turned over to the said “tax collector”
of Dare County, appointed pursuant to this act; provided, however, in its
discretion the board may permit the sheriff to make settlement at the usual
time for the current year, and that the “tax collector” appointed under the
provisions of this act may assist the sheriff and other persons charged with
the collection of taxes, until such settlement is made as provided herein.
(Sess. Laws 1963, ch. 83, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1963, ch. 83, § 5.)
Sec. 6. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall be in full force and effect upon its ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 22nd day of
March, 1963.
(Sess. Laws 1963, ch. 83, § 6.)
   ARTICLE XVIII. AN ACT PROHIBITING THE USE OF RIFLES IN THE MAINLAND AREA OF
DARE COUNTY FROM THE NORTHERN BOUNDARY LINE OF THE TOWN OF KILL DEVIL HILLS TO
THE NORTHERN BOUNDARY LINE OF THE COUNTY OF DARE.
Sec. 1. Discharge of rifles prohibited.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than while upon his own property,
to discharge a rifle.
(Sess. Laws 1969, ch. 306, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Act not applicable to law enforcement officers in pursuit of duties.
   This act shall not apply to any law enforcement officer in the pursuit of
his duties.
(Sess. Laws 1969, ch. 306, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Act applicable only in certain areas.
   This act shall apply only in that area of Dare County which lies north of
the north line of the municipality of the Town of Kill Devil Hills, North
Carolina, and south of the dividing line between Dare County and Currituck
County, and bounded on the east by the Atlantic Ocean, and on the west by Kitty
Hawk Bay and Currituck Sound.
(Sess. Laws 1969, ch. 306, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1969, ch. 306, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall be in full force and effect from and after its ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 25th day of
April, 1969.
(Sess. Laws 1969, ch. 308, § 5.)
   ARTICLE XIX. AN ACT ENABLING THE COUNTY OF DARE TO ESTABLISH AN AIRPORT
AUTHORITY.
Sec. 1. Airport authority created; powers and jurisdiction generally.
   There is hereby created the “Dare County Airport Authority” for brevity
hereinafter referred to as the “airport authority” which shall be a body
corporate and politic, having the powers and jurisdiction hereinafter
enumerated and such other and additional powers as shall be conferred upon it
by future acts of the general assembly.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Composition; appoint, terms and qualifications of members; oath;
vacancies.
   The airport authority shall consist of nine members who shall be appointed
to staggered terms of four years by the Dare County board of commissioners. Any
member may be removed without cause by the affirmative vote of five members of
the board of commissioners after written notice to the member that the member's
removal will be considered by the board of commissioners. The written notice
shall be provided to the member at least 15 days before the board of
commissioners may remove the member. All of the members shall be residents of
the County of Dare. Each of the members and their successors so appointed shall
take and subscribe to an oath of office before the clerk of the superior court
of Dare County and file same with the county commissioners of Dare County. Upon
the occurrence of any vacancy on said authority, said vacancy shall be filed
within sixty (60) days after notice thereof at a regular meeting of the board
of county commissioners.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 2; Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 161, § 1.; Sess. Laws
1993, ch. 251, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Members to constitute board of directors; compensation; voting;
officers; meetings.
   The members shall, for the purpose of doing business, constitute a board of
directors, which may adopt suitable bylaws for its management. The members of
the board shall receive compensation, per diem, as fixed by the board of
commissioners of Dare County from time to time, and shall be allowed and paid
their actual traveling expenses incurred in transacting the business and at the
instance of the said airport authority. A majority of said board shall control
its decisions. Each member of said board, including the chairman, shall have
one vote. At the first meeting of said board and annually thereafter, it shall
elect from among its members a chairman and a secretary and a treasurer. The
said board shall meet at such places and time as the chairman shall designate.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Specific powers and authority.
   The said airport authority shall constitute a body, both corporate and
politic, and shall have the following powers and authority:
   (1)   To purchase, acquire, establish, construct, own, control, lease,
equip, improve, maintain, operate and regulate airports or landing fields for
the use of airplanes and other aircraft within the limits of the County of Dare
and for any of such purposes to purchase, improve, own, hold, lease and/or
operate real or personal property.
   (2)   To sue or be sued in the name of said airport authority, to acquire by
purchase and to hold lands for the purpose of constructing, maintaining or
operating any airport within the limits of said county, and to make such
contracts and to hold such personal property as may be necessary for the
exercise of the powers of the said airport authority. The said airport
authority may acquire by purchase, or otherwise, any existing lease, leasehold
right or other interest in any existing airport located in the County of Dare.
   (3)   To charge and collect reasonable and adequate fees and rents for the
use of the airport property or for services rendered in the operation thereof.
   (4)   To make all reasonable rules and regulations as it deems necessary for
the proper maintenance and operation of the said airport; to provide penalties
for the violation of such rules and regulations; provided said rules and
regulations and schedules of fees be not in conflict with the laws of the State
of North Carolina, and the rules and regulations of the federal government.
      (a)   To adopt ordinances applying to lands or property owned by or
administered by the Authority to the same extent that Dare County could adopt
such ordinance if it owned or administered the lands or property.
   (5)   To issue bonds, notes, or other securities for the purpose of
providing funds for the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement,
betterment, or extension of airport facilities of the airport authority, or for
the acquisition of property for such facilities. The airport authority is
hereby further authorized to issue revenue refunding bonds, notes, or other
securities for the purpose of refunding any bonds, notes or other securities
then outstanding which shall have been issued under the provisions of this act
or the Revenue Bond Act of 1938, including the payment of any redemption
premium thereon and any interest accrued or to accrue to the date of redemption
of such bonds, notes or other securities, and, if deemed advisable by the board
of directors of the airport authority, to provide for the issuance of its
revenues refunding bonds, notes, or other securities for the combined purpose
of refunding any bonds, notes, or other securities then outstanding which shall
have been issued by the authority under the provisions of this act or the
Revenue Bond Act and financing in whole or in part the reconstruction,
improvement, betterment, or extension of the undertaking or facility for which
the bonds, notes, or other securities to be refunded shall have been issued, or
the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or
extension of any undertaking or facility combined or to be combined with the
undertaking or facility for which the bonds, notes, or other securities to be
refunded shall have been issued. The issuance of such bonds, notes, or other
securities the maturities and other details thereof, and the rights, duties,
and obligations of the airport authority in respect of the same shall be
governed by the provisions of this act insofar as the same may be applicable.
Such bonds, notes, or other securities shall be issued in such form and
denomination, shall mature at such time or times not exceeding 50 years from
their date or dates, may be made redeemable at such price or prices and under
such terms and conditions, and shall bear interest at such rate or rates,
payable annually or semiannually, as the board of directors may determine by
resolution. The board of directors shall also determine by resolution the form
and manner of execution of any such bonds, notes, or other securities,
including any interest coupons attached thereto; provided, however, that at
least one manual signature must appear on every bond, note, or other security
which signature may be the manual signature of the representative of the local
government commission to the certificate of the commission on such bond, note,
or other security.
   No bonds, notes, or other securities issued by the airport authority under
the provisions of this act shall be obligations of the County of Dare but no
such bonds, notes, or other securities shall be issued without the approval of
the board of commissioners for the County of Dare.
   The sale of any such bonds, notes, or other securities shall be made by and
with the approval of the local government commission. The board of
commissioners for the County of Dare shall not be required to approve any such
sale.
   Upon the request of the board of directors, any such bonds, notes, or other
securities may be sold by the local government commission in exchange for real
property; provided, however, that the value of any such real property to be
acquired by the airport authority shall have been either judicially determined
or determined by at least two certified appraisals approved by the board of
commissioners for the County of Dare prior to such exchange and that the
exchange shall have been approved by the local government commission.
   Upon the filing with the local government commission of a resolution of the
board of directors requesting that its bonds, notes, or securities issued
pursuant to this act be sold at private sale and without advertisement and upon
the approval of such request by said commission, such bonds, notes, or
securities may be sold by said commission at private sale and without
advertisement to any purchaser or purchasers thereof, such sale to be for such
price as said commission shall determine to be for the best interest of the
airport authority and as shall be approved by the board of directors.
   (6)   The airport authority is hereby authorized and empowered to pledge to
the payment of the principal of and the interest on any bonds, notes, or other
securities all or any part of the revenues, rents, income, and tolls arising
out of the use of or in connection with any airport property or any specific
part of the airport property. Such bonds, notes, or other securities shall be
issued upon such terms, covenants, and conditions as the board of directors may
determine by resolution.
   (7)   Bonds, notes, or other securities issued by the airport authority
under this act shall be exempt from all state, county, or municipal taxes or
assessments, direct or indirect, general or special. and the interest paid on
such bonds, notes, or other securities shall not be subject to taxation as
income.
   (8)   To sell or otherwise dispose of, any property, real or personal,
belonging to the airport authority, but no sale of real property shall be made
without the approval of the board of county commissioners of Dare County.
   (9)   To purchase such insurance as the airport authority shall deem
necessary.
   (10)   To deposit or invest and reinvest any of its funds as provided by
G.S. 159-28.1, a part of the Local Government Act, as it may be amended from
time to time, for the deposit or investment of unit funds.
   (11)   To purchase any of its outstanding bonds or notes.
   (12)   To operate, own, lease, control, regulate, or grant to others the
right to operate on any airport premises, restaurants, snack bars and vending
machines, food and beverage dispensing outlets, rental car services, catering
services, novelty shops, insurance sales, advertising media, merchandising
outlets, motels, hotels, barbershops, automobile parking and storage
facilities, automobile service stations, garage service facilities, motion
picture shows, personal service establishments, and all other types of
facilities as may be directly or indirectly related to the maintenance and
furnishing to the public of a complete air terminal installation.
   (13)   To possess the same exemptions in respect to payment of taxes and
license fees as provided for municipal corporations by the laws of the State of
North Carolina.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 4; Sess. Laws. 1979, ch. 892, § 1.)
Sec. 5. Issuance of bonds, etc., by airport authority.
   The airport authority is hereby declared to be a “municipality” within the
meaning of the Revenue Bond Act of 1938 having the power to issue revenue bonds
for airport purposes under and pursuant to the provisions thereof. In addition
to the power conferred upon the airport authority by the Revenue Bond Act to
issue revenue refunding bonds for the purposes set forth in said act, the
airport authority is hereby authorized to issue revenue refunding bonds under
the Revenue Bond act for the purpose of refunding any revenue bonds then
outstanding which shall have been issued under the provisions of the Revenue
Bond Act or any bonds, notes, or other securities then outstanding which shall
have been issued under the provisions of this act, or any combination thereof,
including the payment of any redemption premium thereon and any interest
accrued or to be accrued to the date of redemption of such bonds, notes, or
other securities, and, if deemed advisable by the board of directors, to
provide for the issuance of revenue refunding bonds under the Revenue Bond Act
for the combined purpose of (a) refunding any bonds then outstanding which
shall have been issued under the provisions of the Revenue Bond Act or any
bonds, notes, or other securities then outstanding which shall have been issued
under the provisions or this act, or any combination thereof, and (b) financing
in whole or in part the reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension
of the undertaking or facility for which the bonds, notes or other securities
to be refunded shall have been issued, or the acquisition, construction,
reconstruction, improvement, betterment, or extension of any undertaking or
facility combined or to be combined with the undertaking or facility for which
the bonds, notes, or other securities to be refunded shall have been issued.
The issuance of any such revenue refunding bonds by the airport authority under
the provisions of the Revenue Bond Act shall be governed by the provisions of
the Revenue Bond Act insofar as the same may be applicable. The powers
contained in the Revenue Bond Act and hereby conferred on the airport authority
shall be deemed to be in addition to and not in substitution for the powers
conferred on the airport authority by this act so that the airport authority
may, at its option, proceed under the Revenue Bond act without regard to any
restrictions or limitations imposed by this act or proposed under this act
without regard to any restrictions or limitations imposed by the Revenue Bond
Act; provided, however, that in no event shall any bonds, notes, or other
securities, including any revenue bonds issued under the Revenue Bond Act, be
issued by the airport authority without the approval of the board of
commissioners for the County of Dare.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 5.)
Sec. 6. Issuance of bonds by county.
   For the purpose of aiding the airport authority in the financing of
improvements at the airport facilities of the airport authority, the County of
Dare is hereby authorized to issue bonds, under and pursuant to the County
Finance Act, for airport purposes as provided in section 153-77 of said act the
same as if such bonds were to be issued to finance improvements at an airport
owned and operated by the County of Dare. The proceeds of the sale of any such
bonds may be expended by the County of Dare or by the airport authority as may
be determined by the board of commissioners for the County of Dare.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 6.)
Sec. 7. Acquisition from county of property for construction, operation and
maintenance of airport.
   The airport authority is hereby authorized and empowered to acquire from the
County of Dare by agreement therewith, and such county is hereby authorized and
empowered to grant and convey, either by gift or for such consideration as it
may be deemed wise, any real or personal property which is now owns or may
hereafter be acquired, and which may be necessary for the construction,
operation and maintenance of any airport located in the County of Dare.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 7.)
Sec. 8. Lands owned, occupied, etc., by airport authority declared to be owned,
occupied, etc., for public purpose.
   Any lands acquired, owned, controlled or occupied by said airport authority
shall and are hereby declared to be acquired, owned, controlled and occupied
for a public purpose.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 8.)
Sec. 9. Acquisition of private property or aviation easements.
   Private property needed by said airport authority for any airport, landing
field or facilities of same may be acquired by gift or devise, or may be
acquired by private purchase or by the exercise of the power of eminent domain,
pursuant to the provisions of chapter 40 of the General Statutes of North
Carolina, as amended.
   Aviation easements needed by the airport authority for any airport, landing
field or facilities of same may likewise be acquired by gift, devise, or
private purchase or by the exercise of the power of eminent domain by said
authority, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 40 of the General Statutes of
North Carolina.
(Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 503, § 9.)
Sec. 10. Annual report to board of commissioners; limitations on powers.
   The said airport authority shall make an annual report to the Dare County
commissioners setting forth in detail the operations and transactions conducted
by it pursuant to this act. The said airport authority shall be regarded as the
corporate instrumentality and agent for the County of Dare for the purpose of
developing airport facilities in the County of Dare but it shall have no power
to pledge the credit of the County of Dare or any subdivision thereof, or to
impose any obligation upon the County of Dare or any subdivision thereof,
except and when such power is expressly granted by statute or the consent of
the County of Dare.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 10.)
Editor’s Note:
   As to quarterly reports to board of commissioners, see section 18 of this
act.
Sec. 11. Applicability of state statutes.
   All rights and powers given to the counties or municipalities by the
statutes of North Carolina, which may now be in effect or be enacted in the
future relating to the development, regulation and control of airports and the
regulations of aircraft are hereby vested in said airport authority, and the
County of Dare may delegate its powers under the said acts to the authority and
the authority shall have concurrent right with the County of Dare to control,
regulate, and provide for the development of aviation in the County of Dare.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 11.)
Sec. 12. Employment of agents, engineers, attorneys, etc.; liability of members
for actions.
   The said airport authority is hereby authorized to employ such agents,
engineers, and attorneys and other persons whose services may be deemed by the
airport authority to be necessary or useful in carrying out the provisions of
this act.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 12; Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 251, § 3.)
Sec. 13. Authority of county to appropriate funds.
   The governing body of said county is hereby authorized to appropriate and
use from the net proceeds derived from the operation by said county, of any
public utility, or from funds derived from any source other than ad valorem
taxes, sums sufficient to carry out the provisions of this act as to the
establishing and maintenance of any airport in such proportion and upon such
basis as may be determined by said county.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 13.)
Sec. 14. Airport authority authorized to expend funds, enter into contracts,
etc.
   Said authority shall have the right and is empowered to expend such funds as
are appropriated from time to time by the said governmental unit for airport
purposes and is empowered to enter into contracts and pledge the credit of the
authority to the extent of the moneys appropriated by the said governmental
unit for airport purposes.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 14.)
Sec. 15. Authority to deal with representatives of federal government.
   The said board shall have authority to deal with the Federal Aviation
Administration of the United State government and any other representative of
the United States government relative to the grading, constructing, equipping,
improving, maintaining and operating of airports and landing fields established
or acquired under the authority of this act.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 15.)
Sec. 16. Powers not effective until members appointed; formation of authority
not mandatory.
   The powers granted to the authority shall not be effective until such time
as the members of the authority have been appointed by the Dare County
commissioners and nothing herein contained shall require the Dare County
commissioners to make initial appointments to said authority, it being the
specific intent of this legislation to enable but not require the formation of
the authority.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 16.)
Sec. 17. Administration of funds.
   The airport authority shall administer all funds under the supervision of
the county accountant in accord with duly existing regulations regarding the
expenditure of public funds provided that the signature upon the checks drawn
on such funds shall bear the signature of the chairman or secretary of the
airport authority and the signature of the county accountant.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 17.)
Sec. 18. Quarterly reports to board of commissioners.
   The airport authority is required to report quarterly to the Dare County
board of commissioners about the plans of the authority, the operation and
maintenance of the airport, improvements to the airport facility, together with
such recommendations as the authority may offer.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 18.)
Editor’s Note:
   As to annual report to board of commissioners, see section 10 of this act.
Sec. 19. Validity; repeal of conflicting laws.
   If any part or parts of this act shall be held to be unconstitutional, such
unconstitutionality shall not affect the validity of the remaining parts of
this act, and all laws and clauses of laws in conflict with the provisions of
this act are hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 19.)
Sec. 20. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall take effect from and after its ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 3rd day of
June, 1971.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 503, § 20.)
ARTICLE XX. AN ACT TO PROHIBIT HUNTING OR TAKING OF BEAR IN DARE COUNTY.
Editor’s Note:
   This was the original title of the act set out in this article, although in
actuality such act applies to both Dare and Craven Counties.
Sec. 1. Hunting or taking bear prohibited in Dare and Craven Counties.
   The seasons for hunting black bears in Tyrell and Washington counties in
1988 and succeeding years, and in Dare county in 1990 and succeeding years,
shall be established as authorized by Chapter 113 of the General Statues;
provided, however, there shall be no season for the year for hunting black
bears in a county if the board of commissioners of that county adopts an
ordinance stating the county's objection to the season that would otherwise be
established for that year as authorized by Chapter 113 of the General Statutes.
(Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 258, § 1; Sess. Laws. 1979, ch. 837, § 2.)
Sec. 2. Violations.
   Violation of this act shall be a misdemeanor punishable by fine or
imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
(Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 258, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 258, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall become effective upon ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 24th day of
April, 1973.
(Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 258, § 4.)
   ARTICLE XXI. AN ACT PROHIBITING THE RUNNING AND CHASING OF DEER WITH DOGS
BETWEEN MARCH 1 AND JUNE 30 IN DARE COUNTY.
Editor’s Note:
   The preamble to Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 259, from which this article is
derived, read as follows:
   “Whereas, the wildlife resources commission indicates that the peak of the
fawn drop in eastern North Carolina is from March 1 through June 30 and that
does and fawns are highly vulnerable during this period; and
   Whereas, one of the primary causes for the decrease in the deer population
in eastern North Carolina is the unnecessary killing of doe deer by dogs when
the deer are heavy with fawn and unable to escape the dogs;
   Now, therefore, “The General Assembly of North Carolina enacts”:
Sec. 1. Running or chasing deer with dogs prohibited between March 1 and June
30.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by or with the use of dogs, to run or
chase deer between March 1 and June 30.
(Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 259, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Allowing dogs to run or chase deer prohibited between March 1 and June
30.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow dogs to run or chase deer
between March 1 and June 30. (Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 259, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Penalties.
   Violation of this act shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days,
or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 259, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Applicability of act.
   This act shall apply to all of Dare County except the mainland and Durants
Island.
(Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 259, § 4; Sess. Laws. 1979, ch. 961, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall become effective upon ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 24th day of
April, 1973.
(Sess. Laws 1973, ch. 259, § 5.)
   ARTICLE XXII. AN ACT RELATING TO THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROFITS FROM THE
OPERATION OF THE DARE COUNTY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONTROL BOARD.
Sec. 1. Distribution of profits regulated.
   After making the distributions provided in subsections (b) and (c) of G.S.
18B-805, the Dare County alcoholic beverage control board shall determine and
retain from the remaining gross receipts a sufficient and proper amount
necessary to be retained as working capital, within the limits set by rules of
the Commission.
   The entire remaining gross receipts shall be paid over to the Dare County
board of county commissioners to be allocated as follows:
   (1)   An amount equal to forty-two and one-half percent (42.5%) shall be
allocated to the County of Dare to be administered by the Dare County
Department of Social Services, through use of a special revenue fund account,
to be used to supplement the operating cost of an in-county out-of- home group
care facility for abused, neglected, and dependent children;
   (2)   Up to twenty percent (20%) may be allocated to the Dare County
alcoholic beverage control board for capital improvement;
   (3)   Fifteen percent (15%) shall be allocated to and divided among the
incorporated towns within Dare County, such sums to go to the general fund of
each of the incorporated towns to be used for any governmental purpose deemed
necessary by the governing body of each town; and
   (4)   The balance of gross receipts not allocated under the foregoing
subdivisions shall be allocated to the general fund of the county to be
expended for any lawful purpose.
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 202, § 1; Sess. Laws 1979, Ch. 1132, § 1; Sess. Laws
1981, Ch. 995, § 1; Sess. Laws 1995, ch. 679, § 1)
Sec. 2. Repeal of conflicting laws.
   All other laws and clauses of laws in conflict with this act are hereby
repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 202, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall become effective July 1, 1977.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 15th day of
April, 1977.
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 202, § 3.)
   ARTICLE XXIII. AN ACT AUTHORIZING THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS OF DARE COUNTY
TO CREATE A DARE COUNTY GAME AND WILDLIFE COMMISSION.
Sec. 1. Creation of commission authorized; composition.
   The Dare County board of commissioners is hereby authorized, subject to the
provisions of this act, to create, in its discretion, a commission composed of
11 residents of Dare County to be known as the “Dare County Game and Wildlife
Commission.”
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 435, § 1; Sess. Laws 1979, ch. 588, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Appointment and terms of members; officers; quorum; meetings; members
authorized to discuss or vote on own license applications.
   All members of the initial commission, as well as vacancies occurring
thereon by reason of death, resignation or otherwise, shall be filled by a
majority vote of the county commissioners. To the initial commission, the
county commissioners shall appoint three members for a one-year term, four
members for a two-year term, and four members for a three-year term.
Thereafter, all members of the commission shall serve three-year terms.
   The initial chairman of the commission shall be chosen by the county
commissioners from among those persons appointed for a three-year term and
shall be chairman for three years. Thereafter the chairman of the commission
shall be chosen by a majority vote of the commission members to serve for a
three-year term. In the event the initial chairman or a subsequent chairman
resigns as chairman or ceases to be a member of the commission for any reason,
the commission shall choose a member of the commission to serve out the
remaining term as chairman.
   The commission shall elect from its membership a vice-chairman and a
secretary-treasurer, each of whom shall serve a one-year term. Vacancies in the
office of vice-chairman and secretary-treasurer shall be filled in the same
manner as that of chairman.
   No officer of the commission shall succeed himself for more than three
successive terms.
   A quorum of the commission shall be six and a simple majority of those
present shall be necessary to take official action.
   The commission shall meet at least twice in each calendar year in Dare
County and it shall meet upon call of the chairman or upon written request of
any five members.
   It shall not be a conflict of interest for a commission member to discuss or
vote upon his own license application.
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 435, § 2; Sess. Laws 1979, ch. 588, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Powers and duties generally.
   The commission shall have full authority in the licensing of devices for
concealing a person or persons hunting migratory waterfowl and licensing of
exclusively geographic locations in Dare County for the purpose of hunting
migratory waterfowl from a blind, box or other permanent or semipermanent
structure or device located thereon. No such exclusive geographic location
shall be located on the shoreline of any game land owned or managed by the
Wildlife Resources Commission, nor shall the periphery of any such location
extend to any point within five yards of the shoreline of any such game land.
   The commission shall maintain a map and record system defining site
locations and licensees.
   The commission shall collect a fee of $25 per new license issued and $10 per
renewal license issued. Within 30 days of the close of each fiscal year the
secretary-treasurer of the commission shall pay one-half of the total license
fees collected during the previous fiscal year to the Wildlife Resources
Commission as reimbursement for the cost of enforcement as required by Section
6 of this Article. The other one-half of the license fees so collected shall be
used to defray expenses in the printing of licenses and any other necessary or
proper expenses of the commission. All funds retained by the commission shall
be held, accounted for, and audited annually as required by the General
Statutes for units of local government and public authority.
   Licenses shall be issued for the period July 1 through June 30 each year and
the balance in the account of the commission on June 30 shall be paid to the
general fund of Dare County.
   The commission shall, after a public hearing to discuss proposed rules and
regulations, establish, adopt and publish written rules and regulations, which
shall be available to the public for a reasonable fee, governing the issuance
and reissuance of licenses.
   The commission shall adopt an official seal, a facsimile of which shall be
exhibited on all licenses.
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 435, § 3; Sess. Laws 1979, ch. 588, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Posting of license.
   It shall be unlawful to use said blind, box, or other structure for hunting
unless the license or renewal thereof is posted in a conspicuous place on said
blind, box, or other structure. Violations of this posting requirement shall be
punishable according to the provisions of Section 6 by a fine not to exceed
$200 or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or both.
(Sess. Laws 1979, ch. 588, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Hearing and review of licensing disputes; granting, altering,
revocation, etc., of licenses; appeals from decisions of commission.
   The commission shall have authority to hear and review all licensing
disputes, shall have authority to subpoena witnesses, and shall notify all
direct parties in interest by certified mail at least 10 days prior to the
hearing. The commission shall have power to grant, alter, revise or revoke
licenses in accord with its rules and regulations.
   Appeals from decisions of the commission shall be to the district court,
where they shall be heard de novo.
   The granting of a license is a privilege and not a vested property right.
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 435. § 4; Sess. Laws 1979, ch. 588, § 5.)
Sec. 6. Penalty.
   It shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $200 or
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days or both for any person to hunt migratory
waterfowl in Dare County within an exclusive geographic location licensed by
the Dare County Game and Wildlife Commission except from a location licensed in
the name of one of the hunters using such location or when in possession of
written permission of the licensee of such location; provided that this section
shall not apply to the shoreline of or within five yards of the shoreline of
any game land owned or managed by the Wildlife Resources Commission.
(Sess. Laws 1979, ch. 588, § 6)
Sec. 7 Enforcement.
   The Wildlife Resources Commission shall enforce the provisions of Section 6.
(Sess. Laws 1979, ch. 588, § 7)
Sec. 8. Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 18th day of
May, 1979.
(Sess. Laws 1971, ch. 435, § 6; Sess. Laws 1979, ch. 588, § 8.)
   ARTICLE XXIV. AN ACT TO EXPRESSLY AUTHORIZE A LOCAL ABC BOARD TO ENTER INTO
A CONTRACT WITH A LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
Sec. 1. Modification of G.S., § 18A-17(14).
   G.S. 18A-17(14), as the same appears in the 1975 Replacement Volume 1C, is
hereby amended in line 6 after the word “officers.” by inserting the following:
   “In lieu of, or in addition to the previous provisions of this subdivision
any county or municipal board is authorized to enter into a contract or
agreement with a local law enforcement agency to provide for enforcement of the
alcoholic beverage control laws within the territorial jurisdiction of that
local law enforcement agency.”
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 606, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Act applicable only to certain counties and municipalities.
   This act shall apply only to Alamance, Dare, New Hanover, Lenoir and
Rockingham Counties and to the Town of Brevard.
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 606, § 2; Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 728, § 1.)
Sec. 3. Effective date; ratification.
   This act shall become effective upon ratification.
   In the general assembly read three times and ratified, this the 17th day of
June, 1977.
(Sess. Laws 1977, ch. 606, § 3.)
   ARTICLE XXV. AN ACT TO AUTHORIZE DARE COUNTY TO INCREASE ITS OCCUPANCY TAX,
LEVY A RESTAURANT TAX, AND CREATE A TOURISM BOARD TO PROMOTE TOURISM IN DARE
COUNTY.
Sec. 1. Occupancy Tax.
   (a)   Authorization and scope. The Dare County board of commissioners may by
resolution, after not less than 10-days' public notice and after a public
hearing held pursuant thereto, levy a room occupancy tax of 3% of the gross
receipts derived from the rental of the following in Dare County:
      (1)   Any room, lodging, or similar accommodation subject to sales tax
under G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(3); and
      (2)   A campsite.
   This tax does not apply to accommodations furnished by nonprofit charitable,
educational, or religious organizations when furnished in furtherance of their
nonprofit purpose. This tax is in addition to any State or local sales tax.
   (b)   Collection. Every operator of a business subject to the tax levied
under this act shall, on and after the effective date of the levy of the tax,
collect the tax. This tax shall be collected as part of the charge for
furnishing a taxable accommodation. The tax shall be stated and charged
separately from the sales records, and shall be paid by the purchaser to the
operator of the business as trustee for and on account of Dare County. The tax
shall be added to the sales price and shall be passed on to the purchaser
instead of being borne by the operator of the business. The Dare County Tax
Collector shall design, print, and furnish to all appropriate businesses and
persons in the county the necessary forms for filing returns and instructions
to ensure the full collection of the tax.
   (c)   Administration. The county shall administer a tax levied under this
act. A tax levied under this act is due and payable to the county tax collector
in monthly installments on or before the 15th day of the month following the
month in which the tax accrues. Every person, firm, corporation, or association
liable for the tax shall, on or before the 15th day of each month, prepare and
render a return on a form prescribed by the county. The return shall state the
total gross receipts derived in the preceding month from rentals and sales upon
which the tax is levied. A return filed with the Dare County Tax Collector
under this act is not a public record as defined by G.S. § 132-1 and may not be
disclosed except as required by law.
   (d)   Use and distribution of tax revenue. Dare County shall distribute two-
thirds of the net proceeds of the tax, on a monthly basis, to the Towns of Kill
Devil Hills, Kitty Hawk, Manteo, Nags Head, and Southern Shores in proportion
to the amount of ad valorem taxes levied by each town for the preceding fiscal
year. The county shall retain the remaining one-third of the net proceeds.
Revenue distributed to a town or retained by the county under this subsection
may be used only for tourist-related purposes, including construction and
maintenance of public facilities and buildings, garbage, refuse, and solid
waste collection and disposal, police protection, and emergency services.
   (e)   Repeal. A tax levied under this act may be repealed by a resolution
adopted by the Dare County board of commissioners. Repeal of a tax levied under
this act shall become effective on the first day of a month and may not become
effective until the end of the fiscal year in which the repeal resolution was
adopted. Repeal of a tax levied under this act does not affect a liability for
a tax that attached before the effective date of the repeal, nor does it affect
a right to a refund of a tax that accrued before the effective date of the
repeal.
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch. 449, § 1; Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 177, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Definitions.
   The definitions in G.S. § 105-164.3 apply in this act. In addition, the
following definitions apply in this act.
   (1)   Net proceeds. Gross proceeds less the cost to the county of
administering and collecting the tax.
   (2)   Prepared food and beverages. Meals, food, and beverages which a
retailer has added value to or whose state has been altered (other than solely
by cooling) by preparing, combining, dividing, heating, or serving, in order to
make them available for immediate consumption.
(Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 177, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Additional Occupancy Tax.
   In addition to the tax authorized by Section 1 of this act, the Dare County
Board of Commissioners may levy a room occupancy and tourism development tax of
one percent (1%) of the gross receipts derived from the rental of
accommodations taxable under that section. The county may not levy a tax under
this section unless it also levies the tax under Section 1 of this act. The
county may levy a tax under this section only if it also levies a tax under
Section 4 of this act to become effective on the same date. A tax levied under
this section may not become effective before the later of (i) the first day of
the second month after the resolution levying the tax is adopted or (ii)
January 1, 1992. The levy, collection, administration, and repeal of the tax
authorized by this section shall be in accordance with Section 1 of this act,
except that the county may repeal a tax levied under this section only if it
also repeals the tax levied under Section 4 of this act effective on the same
date. The county shall distribute the net proceeds of the tax as provided in
Section 7 of this act.
(Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 177, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Prepared Food and Beverage Tax.
   (a)   Authorization. The Dare County Board of Commissioners may, by
resolution, after not less than 10-days' public notice and a public hearing
held pursuant thereto, levy a prepared food and beverage tax of up to one
percent (1%) of the sales price of prepared food and beverages sold within the
county at retail for consumption on or off the premises by a retailer subject
to sales tax under G.S. § 105-164.4(a)(1). The county may levy a tax under this
section only if it also levies a tax under Section 3 of this act to become
effective on the same date. This tax is in addition to State and local sales
tax.
   (b)   Exemptions. The prepared food and beverage tax does not apply to the
following sales of prepared food and beverages:
      (1)   Prepared food and beverages served to residents in boarding houses
and sold together on a periodic basis with rental of a sleeping room or
lodging.
      (2)   Retail sales exempt from taxation under G.S. § 105-164.13.
      (3)   Retail sales through or by means of vending machines.
      (4)   Prepared food and beverages served by a business subject to the
occupancy tax levied pursuant to this act if the charge for the meals or
prepared food or beverages is included in a single, nonitemized sales price
together with the charge for rental of a room, lodging, or accommodation
furnished by the business.
      (5)   Prepared food and beverages furnished without charge by an employer
to an employee.
      (6)   Retail sales by grocers or by grocery sections of supermarkets or
other diversified retail establishments other than sales of prepared food and
beverages in the delicatessen or similar departments of the grocer or grocery
section.
   (c)   Collection. Every retailer subject to the tax levied under this
section shall, on and after the effective date of the levy of the tax, collect
the tax. This tax shall be collected as part of the charge for furnishing
prepared food and beverages. The tax shall be added and charged separately from
the sales records, and shall be paid by the purchaser to the retailer as
trustee for and on account of the county. The tax shall be added to the sales
price and shall be passed on to the purchaser instead of being borne by the
retailer. The county shall design, print, and furnish to all appropriate
businesses and persons in the county the necessary forms for filing returns and
instructions to ensure the full collection of the tax.
   For the convenience of retailers the county shall determine the amount to be
added to the sales price of sales subject to the prepared food and beverage
tax. The amounts shall be set forth in a bracket system and distributed to each
retailer responsible for collecting the prepared food and beverage tax. The use
of the bracket system does not relieve the retailer from the duty of collecting
and remitting an amount equal to the prepared food and beverage tax.
   (d)   Administration. The county shall administer a tax levied under this
section. A tax levied under this section is due and payable to the county
finance officer in monthly installments on or before the fifteenth day of the
month following the month in which the tax accrues. Every person, firm,
corporation, or association liable for the tax shall, on or before the
fifteenth day of each month, prepare and render a return on a form prescribed
by the county. The return shall state the total gross receipts derived in the
preceding month from sales upon which the tax is levied. A return filed with
the county finance officer under this section is not a public record as defined
by G.S. § 132-1 and may not be disclosed except as required by law.
   (e)   Refunds. The county shall refund to a nonprofit or governmental entity
the prepared food and beverage tax paid by the entity on eligible purchases of
prepared food and beverages. A nonprofit or governmental entity's purchase of
prepared food and beverages is eligible for a refund under this subsection if
the entity is entitled to a refund under G.S. § 105-164.14 of the sales and use
tax paid on the purchase. The time limitations, application requirements,
penalties, and restrictions provided in G.S. § 105-164.14(b) and (d) shall
apply to refunds to nonprofit entities; the time, limitations, application
requirements, penalties, and restrictions provided in G.S. § 105-164.14(c) and
(d) shall apply to refunds to governmental entities. When an entity applies for
a refund of the prepared food and beverages tax paid by it on purchases, it
shall attach to its application a copy of the application submitted to the
Department of Revenue under G.S. § 105-164.14 for a refund of the sales and use
tax on the same purchases. An applicant for a refund under this subsection
shall provide any information required by the county to substantiate the claim.
   (f)   Use of proceeds. The county shall distribute the net proceeds of the
tax as provided in Section 7 of this act.
   (g)   Effective date of levy. A tax levied under this section shall become
effective on the date specified in the resolution levying the tax. That date
must be the first day of a calendar month, however, and may not be before the
later of (i) the first day of the second month after the date the resolution is
adopted or (ii) January 1, 1992.
   (h)   Repeal. A tax levied under this section may be repealed by a
resolution adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners. The county may
repeal the tax, however, only if it also repeals the tax levied under Section 3
of this act, effective on the same date. Repeal of a tax levied under this
section shall become effective on the first day of a month and may not become
effective until the end of the fiscal year in which the repeal resolution was
adopted. Repeal of a tax levied under this section does not affect a liability
for a tax that was attached before the effective date of the repeal, nor does
it affect a right to a refund of a tax that accrued before the effective date
of the repeal.
(Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 177, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Penalties.
   A person, firm, corporation, or association who fails or refuses to file a
return required by this act shall pay a penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) for
each day's omission, up to a maximum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month
or fraction thereof. In case of failure or refusal to file the return or pay
the tax for a period of 30 days after the time required for filing the return
or for paying the tax, there shall thereafter be an additional tax for each
additional period of 30 days or fraction thereof, as a penalty, of five percent
(5%) of the tax due in addition to any other penalty until the tax is paid. The
board of commissioners may, for good-cause shown, compromise or forgive the
additional tax and civil penalties imposed by this section. A person who
willfully attempts in any manner to evade a tax imposed under this act or who
willfully fails to pay the tax or make and file a return shall, in addition to
all other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000) and
imprisonment not to exceed six months.
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch. 449, § 1; Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 177, § 5.; Sess. Laws
1991, ch. 906, § 1.)
Sec. 6. Dare County Tourism Board.
   (a)   Appointment and membership. When the Dare County board of
commissioners adopts a resolution levying a tax under Section 3 and Section 4
of this act, it shall also adopt a resolution creating a tourism board to be
known as the Dare County Tourism Board, which shall be a public authority under
the Local Government Budget and Fiscal Control Act. The tourism board shall
consist of 13 members appointed by the board of commissioners as provided
below. Members of the tourism board must be residents of Dare County. Members
shall serve two-year terms except as provided below. No member may serve more
than two successive two-year terms.
      (1)   One member shall be a member of the board of directors of the Outer
Banks Chamber of Commerce selected from nominees submitted by the board of
directors of the Chamber of Commerce. This member shall serve an initial term
of one year.
      (2)   One member shall be a member of the board of directors of the Dare
County Restaurant Association selected from nominees submitted by the board of
directors of the Dare County Restaurant Association. This member shall serve an
initial term of two years.
      (3)   One member shall be a member of the board of directors of the Dare
County Hotel/Motel Association selected from nominees submitted by the board of
directors of the Dare County Hotel/Motel Association. This member shall serve
an initial term of one year.
      (4)   One member shall be a member of the board of directors of the Dare
County Board of Realtors selected from nominees submitted by the board of
directors of the Dare County Board of Realtors. This member shall serve an
initial term of two years.
      (5)   Five members shall be one member from each of the town boards of
Southern Shores. Kitty Hawk, Kill Devil Hills, Nags Head, and Manteo, who shall
serve initial terms respectively of one year, two years, one year, two years,
and one year, and who shall be selected from nominees submitted by each of the
respective town boards.
      (6)   One member shall be a Dare County commissioner. This member shall
serve an initial term of two years.
      (7)   Three members “at large” shall be from anywhere within Dare County.
One of these members must be a resident of Hatteras Island. Two of these
members shall serve initial terms of one year, and one shall serve an initial
term of two years. The board of commissioners may remove a member of the
tourism board only for good cause. Members shall serve the full term for which
appointed regardless whether the member is no longer a member of the
appropriate board designated above. The Dare County board of commissioners
shall determine the compensation to be paid to members of the tourism board.
   (b)   Duties. The tourism board shall elect a Chair and other officers from
among its members to serve one-year terms. The tourism board shall meet at
least quarterly at the call of the Chair and shall adopt rules of procedure to
govern its meetings. The tourism board shall promote year-round travel and
tourism in Dare County as provided in Section 7 of this act and perform other
duties required by law.
(Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 177, § 6.)
Sec. 7. Use of proceeds of additional occupancy tax and prepared food and
beverage tax.
   Dare County shall remit the net proceeds of the taxes levied under Sections
3 and 4 of this act on a monthly basis to the Dare County Tourism Board. The
tourism board may deduct the cost of its annual audit from the proceeds emitted
to it. The tourism board shall use the remainder of the proceeds as follows:
   (1)   Seventy-five percent (75%) shall be used for the cost of
administration and to promote tourism. The tourism board's expenditures may
include (i) advertising to promote less-than-peak-season events and programs,
(ii) marketing research, (iii) a mail and telephone inquiry response program,
and (iv) welcoming and hospitality functions.
   (2)   Twenty-five percent (25%) shall be used for services or programs
needed due to the impact of tourism on the county.
   The tourism board may expend funds only for public purposes. The tourism
board shall report quarterly and at the close of the fiscal year to the board
of commissioners on its receipts and expenditures for the preceding quarter and
for the year in such detail as the board may require. The tourism board may not
use the proceeds distributed to it to purchase real property or for the
purposes set out in subdivision (2) above without prior approval by the Dare
County board of commissioners.
(Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 177, § 7.)
Sec. 8. Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 30th day of
May, 1991.
(Sess. Laws 1991, ch. 177, § 8.)
   ARTICLE XXVI. AN ACT TO PERMIT MUNICIPALITIES BORDERING ON THE ATLANTIC
OCEAN TO REGULATE SEWER TIE-ONS WITHIN THEIR CORPORATE LIMITS, AND TO AUTHORIZE
DARE COUNTY TO LEVY AN EXCISE TAX ON INSTRUMENTS CONVEYING REAL PROPERTY IN
DARE COUNTY.
Sec. 1. Adding to G.S. Chapter 160A.
   Chapter 160A of the General Statutes is amended by adding a new section to
read:
   “§ 160A-196. Sewage tie-ons. Cities that (in whole or in part) are adjacent
to, adjoining, intersected by or bounded by the Atlantic Ocean and Pamlico
Sound may by ordinance regulate the tie-ons to sewage systems within their
corporate limits.”
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch. 525, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Tax.
   (a)   Authorization. The Dare County board of commissioners may, by
resolution, levy an excise tax on instruments conveying certain interests in
real property in Dare County. The tax imposed may not exceed one dollar ($1.00)
on each one hundred dollars ($100.00) or fraction thereof of the total
consideration or value of the interest conveyed, including, in the case of a
sale, the value of any lien or encumbrance remaining on the property at the
time of sale. This tax is in addition to the tax levied by Article 8E of
Chapter 105 of the General Statutes. The value of a lease subject to this tax
shall be computed on the basis of the present value of the fixed lease payments
and, if the lease payments are based in whole or in part on the lessee's
receipts, the estimated amount of the lessee's receipts.
   (b)   Scope. A tax levied under this section applies to all instruments
conveying an interest in real property in Dare County except an instrument:
      (1)   Conveying an interest in real property from the United States, the
state, or a political subdivision of the state;
      (2)   Recording a lease for a term of ten years or less, unless:
         a.   The lease gives the lessee an option to renew the lease for a
period that, when added to the term of the lease, exceeds the ten-year
limitation; or
         b.   The lease is for substantially the same property and is between
the same parties as a lease previously recorded, and the term of the new lease,
when added to that of the previous lease, exceeds the 10-year limitation; or
         c.   The lease requires or permits the property to be transferred to
the lessee for less than the fair market value of the property;
      (3)   Securing indebtedness; or
      (4)   Recording a transfer in which no consideration was paid or is due
the transferor by the transferee.
   In addition, this tax does not apply to conveyances of an interest in real
property by operation of law, by will, or by intestacy.
   (c)   Collection. A tax levied under this section is payable by the
transferor of the interest to the Dare County Tax Collector. This tax must be
paid at the tax collector's office before the instrument conveying the interest
is recorded. The tax collector shall stamp or otherwise mark each instrument
subject to the tax to indicate that the tax has been paid. The Dare County
Register of Deeds may not accept for recordation an instrument subject to a tax
levied under this section unless the instrument bears the tax collector's mark
indicating that the tax has been paid.
   (d)   Appeal. A person who is liable for a tax levied under this section who
disputes the amount of tax due shall pay the tax stated by the tax collector to
be due, but may appeal the payment of the tax to the Land Transfer Tax Appeals
Board by filing a written notice of appeal with the tax collector within 30
days after paying the tax. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal, the tax
collector shall forward a copy of the notice of appeal to the chairman of the
Land Transfer Tax Appeals Board. A notice of appeal shall state the reason for
the appeal and the amount of tax the appellant contends is due.
      (1)   The Land Transfer Tax Appeals Board is established to determine
appeals of taxes imposed under this section. The Board shall consist of seven
members, two of whom shall be appointed by the Dare County board of
commissioners, one of whom shall be appointed by the governing body of Kill
Devil Hills, one of whom shall be appointed by the governing body of Kitty
Hawk, one of whom shall be appointed by the governing body of Manteo, one of
whom shall be appointed by the governing body of Nags Head, and one of whom
shall be appointed by the governing body of Southern Shores. The county
commissioners shall designate a chairman of the board from the membership of
the board. The expenses of the board are an administrative expense and shall be
paid from the proceeds of the tax.
      (2)   Members of the board shall serve staggered four-year terms, with
the term of one of the members appointed by the board of commissioners and the
terms of the members appointed by the governing bodies of Nags Head and
Southern Shores ending on June 30 of one four-year period, and the terms of the
remaining members ending on June 30 of the four-year period ending the second
year following the year in which the terms of the other three members ended.
Members shall serve until their successors are appointed. A vacancy shall be
filled by the appointing authority of the member who created the vacancy.
      (3)   The Land Transfer Tax Appeals Board shall meet at the call of the
chairman and shall meet as often as needed to hear appeals. All appeals to the
board shall be heard by the board within 45 days of the date the tax collector
receives a notice of appeal. The Board shall issue a written decision within 20
days after hearing an appeal and shall send a copy of the decision to the
appellant and to the tax collector. If the decision states that an appellant
paid more tax than was due, the tax collector shall immediately refund to the
appellant the amount of the overpayment. The appellant and the tax collector
may appeal the decision of the Board in an action brought in the superior court
of the county. An appeal to the superior court shall be heard de novo.
   (e)   Use and distribution of tax revenue. For the first 12 fiscal years in
which a tax levied under this section is in effect, all proceeds of the tax
shall be retained by the county and shall be placed in a special Capital
Reserve Fund in the general fund of the county. Revenue in this fund may be
used by the county only for capital expenditures for the following: courts,
jails and detention facilities, emergency medical services, libraries,
recreation, education, administration, water, sewage, health, and social
services. Beginning with the 13th fiscal year in which a tax levied under this
section is in effect, the county shall distribute one-third (1/3) of the net
proceeds of the tax on a quarterly basis to the Towns of Nags Head, Kill Devil
Hills, Kitty Hawk, Southern Shores, and Manteo in Dare County in proportion to
the amount of ad valorem taxes levied by each town for the preceding fiscal
year. Revenue distributed to a town may be used only for capital expenditures.
The remaining two-thirds (2/3) of the net proceeds shall be retained by the
county and placed in the Special Capital Reserve Fund established under this
subsection, to be used only for the purposes listed above. As used in this
subsection, “net proceeds” means gross proceeds less the cost to the county of
administering and collecting the tax.
   (f)   Penalties. A person who knowingly fails to pay a tax levied under this
section, who knowingly aids another to fail to pay a tax levied under this
section, or who, to avoid paying part or all of the tax due under this section,
knowingly misstates the total consideration for an interest conveyed is guilty
of a misdemeanor and is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years and a
fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000).
   (g)   Taxes recoverable by action. If a transferor fails to pay a tax
imposed by this section within 30 days of the tax collector's demand that he
pay the tax, the tax may be recovered by Dare County in an action brought in
the superior court of the county. In an action to recover a tax imposed under
this section, costs of court shall include a fee to the county of $25 for the
expense of collection.
   (h)   Effective date; application. A tax levied under this section shall
become effective on the first day of a month, as designated in the resolution
levying the tax, and may not become effective for at least 30 days after the
adoption of the resolution. A tax levied under this section applies to
instruments that are executed on or after the effective date of the levy,
except instruments executed on or after that date that convey an interest in
real property pursuant to a recorded written contract made before the effective
date.
   (i)   Repeal. A tax levied by this section may be repealed by a resolution
adopted by the Dare County board of commissioners. Repeal of a tax levied under
this section shall become effective on the first day of a month and shall apply
to instruments recorded on or after the effective date of the repeal. Repeal of
a tax levied under this section does not affect a liability for this tax that
attached before the effective date of the repeal.
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch. 525, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Terms of board members.
   Notwithstanding subsection (d) of Section 2 of this act, the initial term of
one of the members to the Land Transfer Tax Appeals Board appointed by Dare
County board of commissioners and the initial terms of the members appointed by
the governing bodies of Nags Head and Southern Shores shall end on June 30 of
the second year after their term begins.
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch. 525, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 1st day of
July, 1985.
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch. 525, § 4.)
   ARTICLE XXVII. AN ACT TO EXEMPT REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAXES TRANSFERS TO
SECURED LENDERS FORECLOSING LOANS OR ACCEPTING DEEDS IN LIEU OF FORECLOSURE.
Sec. 1. Amending G.S. Chapter 45.
   Chapter 45 of the North Carolina General Statutes is amended by adding a new
section as follows:
   “§ 45-45.2. Transfer taxes not applicable. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, no excise tax on instruments conveying an interest in real
property, except that levied by Article 8E of Chapter 105 of the General
Statutes, shall apply to instruments conveying an interest in property as the
result of foreclosure or in lieu of foreclosure to the holder of the security
interest being foreclosed or subject to being foreclosed.”
(Sess. Laws 1987, ch. 685, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification and applies to instruments executed
on or after the date of ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 27th day of
July, 1987.
   ARTICLE XXVIII. AN ACT TO ALLOW THE DARE COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS TO
REDISTRICT ITS RESIDENCY DISTRICTS AND CHANGE THE MANNER OF ELECTION OF THE
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS IN TIME FOR THE 1992 PRIMARY AND ELECTIONS.
Sec. 1. Repealing G.S. § 153A-60(4).
   G.S. § 153A-60(4) is repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 1.)
Sec. 2. Repealing G.S. § 153A-61.
   G.S. § 153A-61 is repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 2.)
Sec. 3. Rewriting G.S. § 153A-64.
   G.S. § 153A-64 reads as rewritten:
   “§ 153A-64. Filing copy of resolution.
   If the resolution is approved under G.S. § 153A-60, a certified true copy of
the resolution shall be filed with the Secretary of State, Supreme Court
Library, and with the Legislative Library.”
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 3.)
Sec. 4. Public hearing.
   Before adopting any resolution under Part 4 of Article 4 of Chapter 153A of
the General Statutes, or taking any action under G.S. 153A-22, a county board
of commissioners shall hold a public hearing on that resolution, and shall
publish notice of the hearing at least 10 days before it is held.
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 4.)
Sec. 5. Repealing G.S. § 153A-22(g).
   G.S. § 153A-22(g) is repealed.
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 5.)
Sec. 5.1. Resolution may apply to 1992 primary and general elections.
   Notwithstanding G.S. § 153A-22(e), a resolution adopted under that section
before the opening of the 1992 filing period for the Date County Board of
Commissioners, may apply to the 1992 primary and general elections.
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 5.1)
Sec. 5.2. Local acts pertaining to establishment of districts repealed.
   That all local acts, including but not limited to Chapter 562, 1965 Session
Laws and Chapter 879, 1981 Session Laws, pertaining to the establishment of
districts for the election of county commissioners of Dare County are repealed
upon adoption of a redistricting resolution authorized by this act except that
incumbent commissioners elected under existing local acts shall continue to
serve the term to which elected.
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 5.2.)
Sec. 6. Act applicable only to Dare County.
   This act applies to Dare County only.
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 6.)
Sec. 7. Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification, but only applies to the 1992
primary and general election if the appropriate resolution is adopted before
the opening of the 1992 filing period for the Dare County Board of
Commissioners.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 14th day of
January, 1992.
(Sess. Laws 1991, Extra Session, chapter 2, § 7.)
ARTICLE XXIX. AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR AN ELECTION IN THE NORTHEASTERNMOST PART OF
DARE COUNTY ON THE QUESTION OF ESTABLISHING A DUCK AREA BEAUTIFICATION DISTRICT
AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE LEVY AND COLLECTION OF PROPERTY TAXES IN THIS DISTRICT.
Sec. 1. Election Authorized.
   The Board of County Commissioners of Dare County may call an election in the
Duck Area District, described in Section 2 of this act, to submit to the voters
in the district the single issue of establishing the Duck Area Beautification
District and authorizing the annual levy and collection of a special ad valorem
tax on all taxable property in the district to beautify the district and
protect the citizens of the district by providing for the installation of
underground power lines. The Dare County Board of Elections shall conduct this
election, in accordance with Chapter 163 of the General Statutes, and shall
certify the results of the election to the Dare County Board of Commissioners.
(Sess. Laws 1983, ch. 991, § 1)
Sec. 2. Description of District.
   The Duck Area District consists of that part of Dare County beginning at the
point at which the Dare County boundary, the Currituck County boundary, and the
Atlantic Ocean intersect, then proceeding southward along the Dare County
boundary to the Town of Southern Shores, then westward along the boundary of
the Town of Southern Shores to Currituck Sound and continuing westwardly across
the sound to the boundary separating Currituck and Dare Counties, and then
northward and eastward along the Dare County boundary to the point of
beginning.
(Sess. Laws 1983, ch. 991, § 2)
Sec. 3. Ballot.
   The Dare County Board of Elections shall prepare ballots in the following
form for an election called under Section 1 of this act:
“[]   FOR creation of the Duck Area Beautification District and the levy of an
ad valorem tax, not to exceed ten cents (10¢) for each one hundred dollars
($100.00) taxable valuation, to beautify the district and protect the citizens
of the district by providing for the underground installation of power lines.
[]   AGAINST creation of the Duck Area Beautification District and the levy of
an ad valorem tax, not to exceed ten cents (10¢) for each one hundred dollars
($100.00) taxable valuation, to beautify the district and protect the citizens
of the district by providing for the underground installation of power lines.”
(Sess. Laws 1983, ch. 991, § 3)
Sec. 4. District Established; Tax Levy.
   If a majority of the qualified voters voting in an election called under
Section 1 of this act vote in favor of creating the Duck Area Beautification
District and authorizing the levy and collection of an ad valorem tax in the
district, the Dare County Board of Commissioners shall, upon receipt of a
certified copy of the election results, adopt a resolution creating the Duck
Area Beautification District and shall file a copy of the resolution with the
clerk of superior court of Dare County. Upon establishing the Duck Area
Beautification District, the Dare County Board of Commissioners may annually
levy an ad valorem tax on all taxable property in the district in an amount the
board considers necessary to provide for the installation of underground power
lines, not to exceed ten cents (10¢) for each one hundred dollars ($100.00)
taxable valuation of property. The proceeds of this tax shall be used only to
provide for the underground installation of power lines in the district.
(Sess. Laws 1983, ch. 991, § 4)
Sec. 5. Nature of District; Governing Body.
   If created, the Duck Area Beautification District shall be a body politic
and corporate and shall have the power to provide for the installation of
underground power lines and do all acts reasonably necessary to fulfill this
purpose. The Dare County Board of Commissioners shall serve, ex officio, as the
governing body of the district, and the officers of the board of county
commissioners shall likewise serve as the officers of the governing body of the
district. A simple majority of the governing body constitutes a quorum, and
approval by a majority of those present is sufficient to determine any matter
before the governing body, if a quorum is present.
(Sess. Laws 1983, ch. 991, § 5)
Sec. 6. Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified, this the 27th day of
June, 1984.
(Sess. Laws 1983, ch. 991, § 6)
   ARTICLE XXX. AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR AN ELECTION WITHIN THE DUCK AREA
BEAUTIFICATION DISTRICT OF DARE COUNTY TO AUTHORIZE THE LEVY AND COLLECTION OF
AD VALOREM PROPERTY TAXES FOR THE PURPOSE OF CONSTRUCTING AND MAINTAINING
SIDEWALKS WITHIN THAT DISTRICT.
Sec. 1. Election Authorized.
   The Dare County Board of Commissioners may call an election in the Duck Area
Beautification District established pursuant to Chapter 991 of the 1983 Session
Laws to submit to the voters in the district the single issue of authorizing
the annual levy and collection of a special ad valorem tax on all taxable
property in the district to protect the general public by providing for the
construction and maintenance of sidewalks within the district. The Dare County
Board of Elections shall conduct this election in accordance with Chapter 163
of the General Statutes and shall certify the result of the election to the
Dare County Board of Commissioners.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 610, § 1)
Sec. 2. Ballot.
   The Dare County Board of Elections shall prepare ballots in the following
form for an election called for under
Section 1 of this article:
[]FOR []AGAINST
The levy of an ad valorem tax not to exceed five cents (5¢) for each one
hundred dollars ($100.00) taxable valuation each tax year for two consecutive
years to protect the general public of the Duck Area Beautification District by
constructing sidewalks within the district, and thereafter the annual levy of
an ad valorem tax not to exceed one cent (1¢) for each one hundred dollars
($100.00) taxable valuation to maintain these sidewalks.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 610, § 2)
Sec. 3. Tax Levy.
   If a majority of the qualified voters voting on the question in an election
called under Section 1 of this article vote in favor of authorizing the levy
and collection of ad valorem taxes in the district, the Dare County Board of
Commissioners may levy the ad valorem tax on all taxable property in the
district in an amount the Board considers necessary to construct the sidewalks
within the district not to exceed five cents (5¢) for each one hundred dollars
($100.00) taxable valuation of property for two consecutive years beginning no
later than the second fiscal year that begins after the election, and
thereafter the Board may annually levy an ad valorem tax in the amount
necessary to maintain the sidewalks but not to exceed one cent (1¢) for each
one hundred dollars ($100.00) taxable valuation of property. The proceeds of
these taxes shall be used only to construct and maintain the sidewalks within
the district.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 610, § 3)
Sec. 4. Governing Body.
   All matters relative to the construction and maintenance of the sidewalks
shall be decided by the Dare County Board of Commissioners, which is the
governing body of the Duck Area Beautification District as provided in Chapter
991 of the 1983 Session Laws.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 610, § 4)
Sec. 5. Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 1st day of
July, 1994.
(Sess. Laws 1993, ch. 610, § 5)
   ARTICLE XXXI. AN ACT TO ALLOW DARE COUNTY TO ESTABLISH A SPECIAL LEASH LAW
DISTRICT, APPLY A LEASH LAW WITHIN THAT DISTRICT, AND LEVY A TAX IN THAT
DISTRICT FOR ENFORCEMENT OF THE LEASH LAW.
Section 1. Creation of Special Districts.
   The board of commissioners of a county may, after approval of the voters of
the area of that proposed district under Section 3 of this act, create within
that county one or more special districts under this act, except that no
territory may be within more than one such special district. The special
district shall be known as the “              Leash Law District” or as the
“              Dog Restraint District”, with the name of the county and/or
geographical area and/or number of the district filled in by the ordinance. No
such district shall contain less than 600 acres of surface area.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 1)
Sec. 2 Adoption of Ordinance to Apply Only in Special District; Definitions.
   (a)   The board of commissioners of a county may adopt an ordinance to apply
only in a special district created under this act, which requires that no owner
or keeper of any do g shall permit such dog to run at large. For the purpose of
that ordinance, the following definitions apply:
      (1)   “Owner or keeper” means any person or persons, or firm, association
or corporation, owning, keeping, or harboring a dog;
      (2)   “At large” is intended to mean off the premises of the owner or
keeper and not under restraint;
      (3)   “Under restraint” means:
         a.    Controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like device;
         b.    On or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or
         c.    Within a secure enclosure which prevents the dog from injuring
persons; and
      (4)   “Premises” means land and buildings.
   (b)   The ordinance may be enforced as provided for county ordinances under
Chapters 67 or 153A of the General Statutes, or under any other public or local
act applicable in that county.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 2)
Sec. 2.1. Application of Ordinance only in Territory of Proposed District.
   Notwithstanding Sections
1 and
2 of this act, a county board of commissioners may, not earlier than adoption
of the resolution calling an election as provided by this act, adopt an
ordinance authorized by this act, applicable only in the territory of the
proposed district, with funds for enforcement of such ordinance to be paid out
of general county revenues, but if the voters do not approve creation of the
district as provided by this act, then the ordinance shall cease to be
effective (except for violations committed prior to its expiration) at the end
of the fiscal year ending after the next general county election held after
adoption of the ordinance.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 2.1)
Sec. 3. Election Authorized; Tax Levy.
   The board of county commissioners of a county may by resolution call an
election to be conducted by the board of elections of that county in a special
district established under Section
1 of this act for the purpose of submitting to the voters therein the single
issue of establishing the district and levying and collecting annually a
special ad valorem tax on all taxable real and personal property in the special
district for the purpose of enforcing an ordinance authorized by Section
2 of this act. The tax levied and collected for the purpose herein specified
shall not exceed five cents (5¢) on each one hundred dollars ($100.00)
valuation of taxable property in the special district.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 3)
Sec. 4. Procedure and Results of Election.
   The election shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 163 of the
General Statutes. The board of elections of a county shall determine and
declare the results of said election and certify the same to the board of
county commissioners of a county and the same shall thereupon be spread upon
the minutes of the said board.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 5)
Sec. 5. Ballot.
   The ballot shall contain the date of the election, the name of the proposed
special district, and the following language:
“FOR creation of the                           District and the levy of an ad
valorem tax not to exceed five cents (5¢) on the one hundred dollar ($100.00)
taxable valuation for the enforcement within that district of an ordinance
requiring that no owner or keeper of any dog shall permit such dog to run at
large.
AGAINST creation of the                 District and the levy of an ad valorem
tax not to exceed five cents (5¢) on the one hundred dollar ($100.00) taxable
valuation for the enforcement within that district of an ordinance requiring
that no owner or keeper of any dog shall permit such dog to run at large.”
   The ballot shall contain the facsimile signature of the chairman of the
board of elections of that county.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 5)
Sec. 6. Vote in Favor.
   If a majority of the qualified voters voting at said election shall vote in
favor of creating the district and the levying of a tax as aforesaid for the
enforcement of the ordinance, as provided by this act, the board of county
commissioners of that county shall upon receipt of the certified copy of the
results of said election from the board of elections adopt a resolution
creating the district and shall file a copy of the said resolution so adopted
with the clerk of the superior court of the county. Upon creation and
establishment of the district, the board of county commissioners of the county
may levy and collect an ad valorem tax on all taxable property in said district
in such amount as it may deem necessary to pay expenses necessitated under
Section 8 of this act, not exceeding five cents (5¢) on each one hundred dollar
($100.00) taxable valuation of property in said district from year to year, and
shall cause the same to be kept in a separate and special fund, to be used only
for the enforcement within that district of the ordinance authorized by Section
2 of this act.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 6)
Sec. 7. Governing Body; Audit.
   The district shall constitute a political subdivision of the State of North
Carolina and shall be a body corporate and politic, exercising public power.
The special district is a public authority under the Local Government Budget
and Fiscal Control Act, but the audit required under G.S. 159-34 may be done as
part of the audit of the county which established the special district, and the
finance officer of that county shall be ex officio the finance officer of the
special district. The board of commissioners of that county shall be ex officio
the governing board of the special district.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 7)
Sec. 8. Payment for Enforcement.
   (a)   The special district shall pay for the enforcement of the ordinance
adopted under Section 2 of this act within that district. The special district
may contract with the county for the enforcement of that ordinance.
   (b)   The district may:
      (1)   Sell, convey, and dispose of any real or personal property owned by
the special district, acquired from any source whatsoever, in accordance with
Article 12 of Chapter 160A of the General Statutes.
      (2)   Erect, repair, construct, replace and alter buildings owned by the
special district, and to improve, manage and maintain and control all real and
personal property owned by the special district or under its supervision and
control.
      (3)   Employ such officers, agents, consultants, and other employees as
it may desire, and to determine their qualifications, duties and compensation.
      (4)   Expend the funds collected by the special tax provided by this act
and any and all other funds coming into the hands of the special district
thereof by gift, donation, contribution, or otherwise, for the enforcement of
the ordinance adopted under Section 2 of this act.
      (5)   Do any and all other acts and things reasonably necessary and
requisite to the purpose of the special district in accordance with the
provisions of this act.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 8)
Sec. 9. Act Applicable to Only Dare County.
   This act applies to Dare County only and is supplemental to any private or
public acts.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 9)
Sec. 10. Effective Date; Ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 18th day of
July, 1990.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 963, § 10)
   ARTICLE XXXII. AN ACT MAKING A QUALIFIED EXCEPTION FROM THE PUBLIC RECORDS
ACT FOR THE DARE COUNTY AND PAMLICO COUNTY GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEMS.
Sec. 1. Amending Chapter 285, Section 2 of the 1991 Sessions Law.
   Section 2 of Chapter 285 of the 1991 Session Laws, as amended by Chapter 845
of the 1991 Session Laws and Chapter 642 of the 1993 Session Laws, reads as
rewritten:
   “Sec. 2. This act applies to Brunswick, Catawba, Dare, Johnston, Lincoln,
Orange, and Pamlico Counties and the Cities of Chapel Hill, Carrboro, Conover,
Hickory, Lincolnton, and Newton only.”
(Sess. Laws 1995, ch. 95, § 1)
Sec. 2. Effective Date; Ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 22nd day of
May, 1995.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 95, § 2)
   ARTICLE XXXIII. AN ACT TO ALLOW THE COUNTY OF DARE TO ACQUIRE PROPERTY FOR
USE BY THE COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION.
Sec. 1. Amending General Statutes, Section 153A-158.1(e).
   (e)   Scope. This section applies to Alleghany, Ashe, Avery, Bladen,
Brunswick, Cabarrus, Carteret, Chowan, Columbus, Currituck, Dare, Duplin,
Edgecombe, Forsyth, Franklin, Greene, Halifax, Harnett, Haywood, Iredell,
Jackson, Johnston, Lee, Macon, Madison, Moore, Nash, Orange, Pasquotank,
Pender, Randolph, Richmond, Rowan, Sampson, Scotland, Stanly, Union, Wake, and
Watauga Counties.
(Sess. Laws 1995, ch. 702, § 1)
   ARTICLE XXXIV. AN ACT TO PERMIT CERTAIN BEAUTIFICATION DISTRICTS TO HOLD ABC
ELECTIONS.
Sec. 1 Amending G.S. § 18B-600.
   (g)   Beautification District Elections. In a county where ABC stores have
been approved by an election and a beautification district has been created
after May, 1984, and prior to June 30, 1986, an election is authorized by
subsection (a) of this section may be called in the beautification district.
The election shall be called in accordance with G.S. § 18B-601(b), conducted,
and the results determined in the same manner as county elections held under
this Article. For purposes of this Article, beautification districts holding
any election shall be treated on the same basis as counties, and municipalities
located within those beautification districts shall be treated on the same
basis as cities.
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch 919 § 1)
Sec. 2 Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 7th day of
July, 1986.
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch. 919 § 2)
ARTICLE XXXV. AN ACT TO PROVIDE THAT THE LAWS RELATING TO MOTOR VEHICLES APPLY
ON STREETS OWNED BY THE COLINGTON HARBOUR ASSOCIATION, INC., IN DARE COUNTY,
AND TO PROVIDE THAT THE TOWN OF MANTEO MAY REGULATE NOISE IN THE ATLANTIC OCEAN
AND OTHER WATERWAYS ADJACENT TO THAT PORTION OF THE TOWN WITHIN ITS BOUNDARIES
OR WITHIN ITS EXTRA TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
Sec. 1 Applicability of General Statutes relating to the Colington Harbour
Association, Inc.
   The provisions of Chapter 20 of the General Statues relating to the use of
the highways of the State and the operation of motor vehicles are applicable to
the drives, driveways, roads, roadways, streets, courts, extensions, alleys,
and parking lots, by whatever name known, on the properties owned by or under
the control of The Colington Harbour Association, Inc., and shown on the
several plats recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of Dare County.
For purposes of this act, drives, driveways, roads, roadways, streets, courts,
extensions, alleys, and parking lots, by whatever name known shall have the
same meaning as highways and public vehicular areas pursuant to G.S. 20-4.01. A
violation of any of those laws is punishable as prescribed by those laws.
(Sess. Laws 1995, ch. 196)
Sec. 2 No interference with ownership.
   This act shall not be construed as in any way interfering with the ownership
and control of the drives, driveways, roads, roadways, streets, courts,
extensions, alleys, and parking lots, by whatever name known, of The Colington
Harbour Association, Inc., nor does this require the removal of the private
guard gate belonging to the Association.
(Sess. Laws 1995, ch. 1996)
Sec. 3 Speed limits unchanged.
   The speed limits shall be the same as those in effect at the time of
ratification of this act and contained on a list in the office of the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. Any proposed change in the speed limits shall be
submitted to and approved by the Dare County Board of Commissioners pursuant to
G.S. 20-141.
(Sess. Laws 1995, ch. 196)
Sec. 4 Section 2 of Chapter 84 of the 1995 Session Laws:
   “Sec. 2. This act applies to the Towns of Kill Devil Hills, Kitty Hawk,
Manteo, Nags Head, and Southern Shores only.”
(Sess. Laws 1995, ch. 196)
Sec. 5 This act applies only to Dare County.
(Sess. Laws, 1995, ch. 196)
Sec. 6 Effective date; ratification.
   This act is effective upon ratification.
   In the General Assembly read three times and ratified this the 7th day of
June, 1995.
(Sess. Laws 1995, ch. 196)
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Amendments to code
   
10.20   County seal
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for Dare County shall be designated
as the Code of Dare County and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS or BOARD. The Board of Commissioners of Dare
County, North Carolina.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This County Code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Dare County, North Carolina.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this county unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of North Carolina.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VIOLATION. Failure to perform or comply with the provisions of a County
code, rule or regulation.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the
words YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
Statutory reference:
   Similar statutory definitions, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this county shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the Board
of Commissioners or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
Statutory reference:
   Similar statutory rules of construction, see G.S. § 12-3
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in 1 section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this county exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the county for the transaction of all county business.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Board of Commissioners requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anywise be effected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Board of Commissioners shall desire to amend any existing
chapter or section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically
repealed and a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment,
substituted in its place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and any amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed
1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a G.S. cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. Example:
(G.S. § 153A-114) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 31.10 COUNTY ATTORNEY.
      The Office of County Attorney is hereby established.
   Statutory reference:
      County Attorney by Board of Commissioners, see G.S. § 153A-114
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.19 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances passed subsequent to this code, which amend, repeal or
in any way affect any section or subsection of this code, shall be numbered
consecutively but shall refer specifically to the section or subsection
affected and printed for inclusion therein. When subsequent ordinances repeal
any chapter, section or subsection or any portion thereof, the repealed
portions shall be excluded from this code by omission from reprinted pages. The
subsequent ordinances, as numbered and printed, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of the subsequent ordinances until such
time as this code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are readopted
as a new code by the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   Amendments of any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following manner: “That section           of the Dare County Code
is hereby amended to read as follows: .” The new provisions shall be then set
out in full.
   (C)   In the event a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to
be added, the following language shall be used: “That the Dare County Code is
hereby amended by adding a new section to be numbered section              ,
which said section shall read as follows: .” The new section shall then be set
out in full.
   (D)   All sections, subchapters, chapters or provisions desired to be
repealed shall be specifically repealed by section, subchapter or chapter
number in the following language: “That section, chapter or article          
of the Dare County Code is hereby repealed.”
(Prior Code, § 10.19)
§ 10.20 COUNTY SEAL.
   The official corporate seal of the county shall be the seal located in the
office of the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners and used for such purpose.
(Prior Code, § 10.210)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided, violation of any provision of
this code or any other county ordinance shall be a misdemeanor, as provided by
G.S. § 14-4.
   (B)   Any provision of this code or any other county ordinance may be
enforced by an appropriate equitable remedy issuing from a court of competent
jurisdiction. In such case, the general court of justice shall have
jurisdiction to issue such orders as may be appropriate, and it shall not be a
defense to the application of the county for equitable relief that there is an
adequate remedy at law.
   (C)   (1)   Any provision of this code or any other county ordinance that
makes unlawful a condition existing upon or use made of real property may be
enforced by injunction and order of abatement, and the general court of justice
shall have jurisdiction to issue the orders. When a violation of such a
provision occurs, the county may apply to the appropriate division of the
general court of justice for a mandatory or prohibitory injunction and order of
abatement commanding the defendant to correct this unlawful condition upon or
cease the unlawful use of the property. The action shall be governed in all
respects by the laws and rules governing civil proceedings, including the Rules
of Civil Procedure.
      (2)   In addition to an injunction, the court may enter an order of
abatement as a part of the judgment in the cause. An order of abatement may
direct that buildings or other structures on the property be closed, demolished
or removed; that fixtures, furniture or other movable property be removed from
buildings on the property; that grass and weeds be cut; that improvements or
repairs be made or that any other action be taken that is necessary to bring
the property into compliance with this code or such ordinance. If the defendant
fails or refuses to comply with an injunction or with an order of abatement
within the time allowed by the court, he or she may be cited for contempt, and
the county may execute the order of abatement. The county shall have a lien on
the property for the cost of executing an order of abatement in the nature of a
mechanic’s and material person’s lien. The defendant may secure cancellation of
an order of abatement by paying all costs of the proceedings and posting a bond
for compliance with the order. The bond shall be given with sureties approved
by the Clerk of Superior Court in an amount approved by the judge before whom
the matter is heard and shall be conditioned on the defendant’s full compliance
with the terms of the order of abatement within a time filed by the judge.
Cancellation of an order of abatement shall not suspend or cancel an injunction
issued in conjunction therewith.
   (D)   The provisions of this code and any other county ordinance may be
enforced by any one, all, or a combination of the remedies authorized and
prescribed by this section.
   (E)   Except as otherwise specifically provided, each day’s continuing
violation of any provision of this code or any other county ordinance shall be
a separate and distinct offense.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
   (F)   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-123, and unless this code provides
otherwise, violation of any provision hereof shall be a Class 3 misdemeanor as
provided in G.S. § 14-4, punishable upon conviction by a fine not exceeding $50
or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days. An ordinance may provide by express
statement that the maximum fine or term of imprisonment imposed for its
violation shall be some figure or number of days less than the maximum
penalties prescribed by G.S.§ 14-4.
   (G)   As authorized by G.S. § 153A-123, the violation of the provisions of
this code shall subject the person or entity violating such provisions to a
civil penalty of $50 per day for each of the first 15 days such violations
continues after written notice of the violation from the County has been
issued, $100 per day for the sixteenth through the thirtieth day such violation
continues after the initial written notice from the County and $500 or the
maximum amount authorized under the provisions of the North Carolina General
Statutes, whichever is greater for each day after 30 days that such violation
continues after initial written notice from the County.
   (H)   If any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this chapter, the County, in addition to other remedies
may institute appropriate action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful action
or use to restrain, correct or abate any violation and to prevent the occupancy
of the building, structure, or land or prevent any illegal use of the building,
structure, or land.
   (I)   The imposition and collection of the foregoing civil penalties shall
be in addition to all other remedies available to the County at law or in
equity, authorized under the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes,
including by not limited to, the suspensions of licenses and permits and
actions to abate, enjoin, or otherwise remedy violations of this Code and all
such remedies shall be cumulative. The imposition of civil penalties or the use
of other civil remedy available to the County shall be in addition to, and not
exclusive of, any criminal proceeding and/or penalties available and/or imposed
for the violation of this Code.
   (J)   This section shall amend
Chapter 153, Title XV of this Code by adding the provisions set forth in §
10.99(A) through (I) above in addition to items detailed in
§
153.99(A) and
§
153.99(B).
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
      
31.   COUNTY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   PERSONNEL POLICIES
      
34.   COUNTY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Rules of procedure for the Board of County Commissioners
   
30.03   Districts for selection of county commissioners; staggered terms
   
30.04   Vacancies on Board of Commissioners in certain counties
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meeting dates of the Board of Commissioners shall be the
first and third Mondays of each month.
   (B)   The time for calling a meeting to order shall be 9:00 a.m. for the
first meeting of the month, and 3:00 p.m. for the second meeting of the month.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. passed 6-8-1948; Am. Ord. passed 3-7-1967; Am. Res.
R01-1-4a, passed 1-2-2001)
§ 30.02 RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR THE BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Rule 1. Applicability of Rules. These rules apply to all meetings of
the Board of Commissioners at which the Board is empowered to exercise any of
the executive, quasi-judicial, administrative or legislative powers conferred
on it by law.
   (B)   Rule 2. Meetings to be Open.
      (1)   It is the public policy of North Carolina and Dare County that the
hearings, deliberations and actions of the Board and its committees be
conducted openly.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in these rules and in accordance with
applicable law, each official meeting of the Board of Commissioners shall be
open to the public and any person is entitled to attend the meeting.
      (3)   For the purposes of the provisions of these rules concerning open
meetings, an official meeting of the Board is defined as any gathering together
at any time or place or the simultaneous communication by conference telephone
or other electronic means of a majority of Board members for the purpose of
conducting hearings, participating in deliberations or voting upon or otherwise
transacting public business within the jurisdiction, real or apparent, of the
Board.
   (C)   Rule 3. Closed Sessions.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Rule 2 (division (B)) above, the
Board may hold a closed session and exclude the public under the following
circumstances and no others:
         (a)   To prevent the disclosure of information that is privileged or
confidential pursuant to the law of this state or of the United States, or is
not considered a public record within the meaning of G.S. Ch. 132;
         (b)   To consult with the County Attorney or another attorney employed
or retained by the county in order to preserve the attorney-client privilege;
         (c)   To discuss matters relating to the location or expansion of
industries or other businesses in the county;
         (d)   To consider and take action with respect to the position to be
taken by the county in negotiating the price or other material terms of an
agreement for the acquisition or lease of real property;
         (e)   To consider the initial employment or appointment of an
individual to any office or position, other than a vacancy in the Board of
Commissioners or any other public body, and to consider the qualifications,
competence, performance, character and fitness of any public officer or
employee, other than a member of the Board of Commissioners or of some other
public body;
         (f)   To hear or investigate a charge or complaint by or against an
individual public officer or employee; and
         (g)   To plan, conduct or hear reports concerning investigations of
alleged criminal misconduct.
      (2)   The Board may go into closed session only upon motion made and
adopted at an open meeting. A motion to go into closed session must cite one or
more of the permissible purposes listed in
§ 30.02(C)(1) above. In addition a motion to go into closed session pursuant to
§ 30.02(C)(1)(a) above must state the name or citation of the law that renders
the information to be discussed privileged or confidential, and a motion to go
into closed session pursuant to
§ 30.02(C)(1)(b) above must identify the parties in each existing lawsuit, if
any, concerning which the Board expects to receive advice during the closed
session.
      (3)   Unless the motion to go into closed session provides otherwise, the
County Manager, County Attorney and Clerk to the Board may attend the closed
session. No other person may attend the closed session unless specifically
invited by the majority vote of the Board.
   (D)   Rule 4. Organizational Meeting.
      (1)   Even-numbered years. The Board shall hold an organizational meeting
at its regular meeting place at 9:00 a.m. on the first Monday in December of
each even-numbered year. The agenda for this organizational meeting shall be
limited to induction of newly elected members of the Board of County
Commissioners and other elected county officials and organization of the Board
for the ensuing year. The organizational meeting shall be convened and
concluded before the regular December meeting is convened. The Clerk of the
Board of Commissioners shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until
a chair is elected. If they have not already been sworn and inducted into
office, the newly elected members of the Board shall take and subscribe the
oath of office as the first order of business. As the second order, the Board
shall elect a chair and vice-chair from among its members. As the third order,
the Board shall approve the bonds of any newly elected Sheriff or Register of
Deeds.
      (2)   Odd-numbered years. At the first regular meeting in December of
each odd-numbered year, the first order of business shall be election of the
chair and vice-chair for the ensuing year.
   (E)   Rule 5. Election of the Chair. The Chair of the Board shall be elected
for a term of 1 year and shall not be removed from the office of chair unless
he or she becomes disqualified to serve as a member of the Board.
   (F)   Rule 6. Regular and Special Meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings. The Board shall hold a regular meeting on the
first and third Monday of each month. If a regular meeting day is a holiday on
which county offices are closed, the meeting shall be held on the next business
day or such succeeding day as may be specified in the motion adjourning the
immediately preceding regular meeting. Regular meetings shall be held at the
Administrative Annex located at 204 Ananias Dare Street, Manteo, North Carolina
and shall begin at 9:00 a.m. The Board may change the place or time of a
particular regular meeting or all regular meetings within a specified time
period by resolution adopted, posted and noticed no less than 7 days before the
change takes effect. Such a resolution shall be filed with the Clerk to the
Board and posted at or near the regular meeting place, and copies shall be sent
to all persons who have requested notice of special meetings of the Board.
      (2)   Special meetings. The Chair or a majority of the members of the
Board may at any time call a special meeting of the Board by signing a notice
stating the time and place of the meeting and the subjects to be considered.
The person or persons who call the meeting shall cause the notice to be posted
on the door of the regular meeting place and delivered to the Chair and all
other Board members or left at the usual dwelling place of each member at least
48 hours before the meeting. In addition, the notice shall be mailed or
delivered to individual persons and news media organizations who have requested
such notice as provided in
§ 30.02(F)(4). Only those items of business specified in the notice may be
transacted at a special meeting.
      (3)   Emergency meetings. If a special meeting is called to deal with an
unexpected circumstance that requires immediate consideration by the Board, the
notice requirements of this rule do not apply. However, the person or persons
who call an emergency meeting shall take reasonable action to inform the other
members and the public of the meeting. Local news organizations who have
requested notice of special meetings as provided in
§ 30.02(F)(4), shall be notified of such emergency meetings by the same method
used to notify Board members. Only business connected with the emergency may be
discussed at the meeting.
      (4)   Sunshine list. Any individual person and any newspaper, wire
service, radio station and television station may file with the Clerk of the
Board of Commissioners a written request for notice of all special meetings of
the Board. Requests made by news media organizations and individuals must be
renewed annually on or before June 30 and are not subject to any fee.
      (5)   Work sessions and committee meetings.
         (a)   The Board may schedule work sessions, committee meetings or
other informal meetings of the Board or a majority of the members of the Board
at such times and with respect to such subject matter as may be established by
resolution or order of the Board. A schedule of any such meetings that are held
on a regular basis shall be filed in the same place and manner as the schedule
of regular meetings. Work sessions and other informal official meetings not
held on a regular schedule are subject to the same notice requirements as
special Board meetings.
         (b)   Unofficial meetings, i.e. meetings with less than a majority of
Board members, are not subject to any notice requirement. However, if at any
such unofficial meeting, other Board members attend in any capacity and there
becomes a majority of Board members present, then the meeting becomes an
official meeting and is subject to notice requirements.
   (G)   Rule 7. All Meetings Within the County. All meetings shall be held
within the boundaries of Dare County except as otherwise provided herein, or as
otherwise allowed by the General Statutes of North Carolina.
      (1)   A joint meeting with the governing board of any other political
subdivision of the state or any other state may be held within the boundaries
of either subdivision as may be stated in the call of the meeting. At any such
joint meeting, this Board reserves the right to vote separately on all matters
coming before the joint meeting.
      (2)   A special meeting called for the purposes of considering and acting
upon any order or resolution requesting members of the General Assembly
representing all or any portion of the county to support or oppose any bill
pending in the General Assembly or proposed for the introduction therein may be
held in Raleigh or such other place as may be stated in the call of the
meeting.
   (H)   Rule 8. Broadcasting and Recording Meetings.
      (1)   Except as provided in this rule, any radio or television station is
entitled to broadcast all or any part of an official meeting of the Board that
is required to be open to the public. Any person may photograph, film, tape-
record or otherwise reproduce any part of a meeting required to be open.
      (2)   Any radio or television station wishing to broadcast or record for
broadcast any portion of an official meeting of the Board shall so notify the
County Manager no later than 24 hours before the meeting unless waived by the
County Manager. If the number of requests or the quantity and size of the
necessary equipment is such that the meeting cannot be accommodated in the
designated meeting room and no suitable alternative site is available, the
County Manager may require the news media to pool equipment and personnel.
   (I)   Rule 9. Agenda.
      (1)   The Clerk of the Board shall prepare the agenda, subject to the
approval of the Chairperson, for each regular, special and emergency meeting. A
request to have an item of business placed on the agenda for a regular meeting
must be received at least 2 working days, but preferably 6 working days, before
the meeting. Any Board member may request that an item be placed on the agenda.
      (2)   The agenda packet shall include the agenda document, any proposed
ordinances or amendments to ordinances and supporting documentation and
background information relevant to items on the agenda. A copy of the agenda
packet shall be delivered to each member of the Board at least 24 hours, but
preferably 2 working days, before the meeting. Documents in the agenda packet,
if not previously available for public inspection, shall become so when packets
have been delivered to each Board member or left at his or her usual dwelling.
      (3)   The Board may, by majority vote, add an item that is not on the
agenda.
      (4)   If a non-agenda request for funding is made during the conduct of
business at a regular meeting, or by a Commissioner when speaking under the
agenda section “Commissioners’ Business,” such request will be tabled and set
out as an agenda item at the next regular meeting of the Board. However, if the
matter is time-sensitive or of an emergency nature, by a majority vote of the
Board, the request may be debated and voted on at the meeting when it is
introduced. Items requesting funding which are on the regular agenda, with
supporting documentation, will be considered, debated and voted on as scheduled
on the agenda.
   (J)   Rule 10. Informal Public Comments. The Clerk to the Board shall
include on the agenda of each regular meeting a period for comments from
members of the public in attendance. The Chair or his or her designee will
first recognize individuals or groups who have made a prior appointment to be
heard, and then may recognize others. The Chair may specify the time allotted
to each speaker.
   (K)   Rule 11. Order of Business. At regular meetings, the Board shall
proceed with business by following the agenda which was disseminated and
published in the newspaper prior to the meeting. Without objection, the Chair
may call items in any order most convenient for the dispatch of business.
   (L)   Rule 12. Powers of the Chair. The Chair shall preside at all meetings
of the Board. A member must be recognized by the chair in order to address the
Board. The Chair shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To rule on points or parliamentary procedure, including the right
to rule out of order any motion patently offered for obstructive or dilatory
purposes;
      (2)   To determine whether a speaker has gone beyond reasonable standards
of courtesy in his or her remarks and to entertain and rule on objections from
other members on this ground;
      (3)   To call a brief recess at any time; and
      (4)   To adjourn in an emergency.
   (M)   Rule 13. Presiding Officer When the Chair is in Active Debate. If the
Chair wishes to present a particular proposal, he or she shall designate
another Board member or staff member to preside. The Chair shall resume the
duty to preside as soon as action on the matter is concluded.
   (N)   Rule 14. Action by the Board. The Board shall proceed by motion. Any
member, except the Chair, may make a motion. The Chair may invite another
member to make a motion by saying “The Chair will entertain a motion that...”
   (O)   Rule 15. Second Required. A motion shall require a second.
   (P)   Rule 16. One Motion at a Time. A member may make only 1 motion at a
time.
   (Q)   Rule 17. Substantive Motion. A substantive motion is out of order
while another substantive motion is pending.
   (R)   Rule 18. Adoption by Majority Vote. A motion shall be adopted if
approved by a majority of the votes cast, a quorum being present, unless an
extraordinary majority is required under these rules or the laws of North
Carolina.
   (S)   Rule 19. Debate. The Chair shall state the motion and then open the
floor to debate, presiding over the debate according to these general
principles:
      (1)   The member making the motion or introducing the ordinance,
resolution or order is entitled to speak first.
      (2)   A member who has not spoken on the issue shall be recognized before
someone who has already spoken.
      (3)   To the extent possible, the debate shall alternate between
opponents and proponents of the measure.
      (4)   The number of times each member may debate a given motion may, at
the Chair’s discretion, be limited.
   (T)   Rule 20. Procedural Motions.
      (1)   In addition to substantive proposals, the procedural motions listed
in
§ 30.02(T)(2) below, and no others, shall be in order. Unless otherwise noted,
each motion is debatable, may be amended, and requires a majority vote for
adoption.
      (2)   With no order of priority, the procedural motions are:
         (a)   To adjourn; (The motion may be made only at the conclusion of
action on a pending matter. It may not interrupt deliberation of a pending
matter.)
         (b)   To take a recess;
         (c)   To call to follow the agenda; (The motion must be made at the
first reasonable opportunity or it is waived.)
         (d)   To suspend the rules; (The motion requires a vote equal to a
quorum.)
         (e)   To divide a complex motion and consider it by paragraph;
         (f)   To defer consideration; (A motion to defer consideration of a
substantive motion must specify the date on or before which the motion is to be
brought back to the Board. The date shall not be longer than 100 days.)
         (g)   To call the previous question; (The motion is not in order until
each member has had at least 1 opportunity to speak.)
         (h)   To postpone to a certain time or day;
         (i)   To refer to committee; (A motion to refer to committee shall
specify the date by which the committee must report back to the Board the
status and/or action taken on the referred proposal.)
         (j)   To amend; (An amendment to a motion must be germane to the
subject of the motion, but it may not achieve the opposite effect of the
motion. There may be an amendment to the motion and an amendment to an
amendment, but no further amendments.)
         (k)   To revive consideration; (The motion is in order at any time
within 100 days of a vote deferring consideration of it.)
         (l)   To reconsider; and (The motion must be made at the same meeting
at which the original vote was taken and by a member who voted with the
prevailing side. The motion cannot interrupt deliberation on a pending matter
but is in order at any time before adjournment.)
         (m)   To prevent reconsideration for 3 months. The motion shall be in
order immediately following the defeat of a substantive motion and at no other
time. The motion requires a vote equal to a quorum and is valid for 3 months or
until the next regular election of County Commissioners, whichever occurs
first.
   (U)   Rule 21. Renewal of Motion. A defeated motion may not be renewed at
the same meeting.
   (V)   Rule 22. Withdrawal of Motion. A motion may be withdrawn by the
introducer at any time before the Chair puts the motion to a vote.
   (W)   Rule 23. Duty to Vote. When in attendance at a meeting, it is the duty
of each member to vote unless excused by a majority vote according to law.
Abstention from voting shall not be allowed under these rules. The Board may
excuse members from voting on matters involving their own financial interest or
official conduct or on matters on which the member is prohibited from voting
under G.S. § 14-234. A member who wishes to be excused from voting shall so
inform the Chair, who shall take a vote of the remaining members. A member who
fails to vote, not having been excused, shall be recorded as voting with the
majority.
   (X)   Rule 24. Prohibition of Secret Voting. No vote may be taken by secret
ballot. If the Board decides to vote by written ballot, each member shall sign
his or her ballot and the minutes shall record the vote of each member. These
ballots shall be retained and made available for public inspection until the
minutes of that meeting have been approved, at which time they may be
destroyed.
   (Y)   Rule 25. Action by Reference. The Board shall not deliberate, vote or
otherwise take action upon any matter by reference to a letter, number or other
designation, or other secret device or method, with the intention of making it
impossible for persons attending a meeting of the public body to understand
what is being deliberated, voted or acted upon. However, this does not prohibit
a public body from deliberating, voting or otherwise taking action by reference
to an agenda, if copies of the agenda, sufficiently worded to enable the public
to understand what is being deliberated, voted or acted upon are available for
public inspection at the meeting.
   (Z)   Rule 26. Introduction of Ordinances, Resolutions and Orders. A
proposed ordinance shall be deemed introduced at the first meeting at which it
is on the agenda regardless of whether it is actually considered by the Board
and its introduction shall be recorded in the minutes.
   (AA)   Rule 27. Adoption, Amendment or Repeal of Ordinances. To be adopted
at the meeting when first introduced, an ordinance or any action with the
effect of an ordinance, or any ordinance amending or repealing an existing
ordinance (except the budget ordinance, a bond order or another ordinance
requiring a public hearing before adoption) must be approved by all members of
the Board of Commissioners. If the proposed measure is approved by a majority
of those voting but not by all the members of the Board, or if the measure is
not voted on at the meeting where introduced, it shall be considered at the
next regular meeting of the Board. If the proposal receives a majority of the
votes cast at the next meeting, it is adopted.
   (BB)   Rule 28. Quorum. A majority of the Board membership shall constitute
a quorum. The number required for a quorum is not affected by vacancies. If a
member has withdrawn from a meeting without being excused by majority vote of
the remaining members present, he or she shall be counted as present for the
purposes of determining whether a quorum is present. The Board may compel the
attendance of an absent member by ordering the Sheriff to take the member into
custody.
   (CC)   Rule 29. Public Hearings. Public hearings required by law or deemed
advisable by the Board shall be organized by a special order, adopted by a
majority vote, setting forth the subject, date, place and time of the hearing.
The Board may publish rules regarding the length of time allotted to each
speaker and designating representatives to speak for large groups. At the
appointed time, the Chair or his or her designee shall call the hearing to
order and preside over it. When the allotted time expires, the Chair shall
declare the hearing ended and the Board shall resume the regular order of
business.
   (DD)   Rule 30. Quorum at Public Hearings. A quorum of the Board shall be
required at all public hearing required by law.
   (EE)   Rule 31. Minutes. Minutes shall be kept of all Board meetings.
   (FF)   Rule 32. Appointments. The Board shall use the following procedure to
make appointments to fill vacancies in boards and public offices over which the
board has power of appointment. The Chair shall open the floor to nominations,
whereupon the members shall put forward and debate names of possible
appointees. When debate ends, the Chair shall call the roll of the members and
each Board member shall vote for no more nominees than the number of seats
available. The votes shall not be tallied until each member has had the
opportunity to vote. Nominees receiving the highest number of votes will be
appointed, provided they receive a majority of the votes.
   (GG)   Rule 33. Reference to Robert’s Rules of Order. To the extent not
provided for in, and not conflicting with the spirit of these rules, the Chair
shall refer to Robert’s Rules of Order to resolve procedural questions.
(Prior Code, § 30.02) (Ord. passed 5-5-1997; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-1998; Am. Ord.
passed 2-4-2004)
Statutory reference:
   Meetings of public bodies, see G.S. §§ 143-318.9 et seq.
§ 30.03 DISTRICTS FOR SELECTION OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS; STAGGERED TERMS.
   (A)   At the primary and general election to be held in 1994, and
quadrenially thereafter, the County Board of Commissioners shall be composed of
7 members who shall reside in and represent the following districts:
      (1)   District 1: The mainland and Roanoke Island;
      (2)   District 2: Town of Nags Head and all of Bodie Island south to
Oregon Inlet, Town of Kill Devil Hills and adjacent or nearby unincorporated
areas to the west including, but not limited to Colington Islands and Baum Bay
Harbor;
      (3)   District 3: Town of Kitty Hawk, Town of Southern Shores, all the
remainder of Dare County west and north of the Town of Southern Shores;
      (4)   District 4: Hatteras Island; and
      (5)   District 5: All of Dare County.
   (B)   At the primary and general election to be held in 1994, and
quadrenially thereafter, there shall be nominated and elected 1 Commissioner
from each of the Districts 1, 2 and 5 as set out in division (A) of this
section. At the primary and general election to be held in 1996 and
quadrenially thereafter, there shall be nominated and elected 1 Commissioner
from each of Districts 1, 2, 3 and 4 as set out in division (A) of this
section.
   (C)   The candidate in the primary from each respective district shall be
voted on by all of the qualified voters of the county, and the candidate from
each respective district who receives the largest number of votes shall be
declared to be the nominee of his or her party, duly nominated as the candidate
for the district at the general election, and the candidates shall be voted on
at the general election by all of the qualified voters of the county.
   (D)   The districts described in division (A) shall be shown on a map of the
county on which the district lines are drawn which map is incorporated in
division (A) of this section by reference. The map shall be entitled “Districts
of Dare County for the Election of County Commissioners,” shall be dated the
same date as adoption of this resolution and shall bear the original signature
of the Chairperson of the Board of Commissioners. The map shall be filed with
the Dare County Board of Elections and in the office of the Clerk to the Board
of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 30.03) (Res. R92-2-3, passed 2-7-1992)
§ 30.04 VACANCIES ON BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS IN CERTAIN COUNTIES.
   (A)   If a vacancy occurs on the Board of Commissioners, the remaining
members of the Board shall appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy. If
the number of vacancies on the Board is such that a quorum of the Board cannot
be obtained, the Chairperson of the Board shall appoint enough members to make
up a quorum, and the Board shall then proceed to fill the remaining vacancies.
If the number of vacancies on the Board is such that a quorum of the Board
cannot be obtained and the office of Chairperson is vacant, the Clerk of
Superior Court of the County shall fill the vacancies upon the request of any
remaining member of the Board or upon the petition of any registered voters of
the county.
   (B)   If the member being replaced was serving a 2-year term, or if the
member was serving a 4-year term and the vacancy occurs later than 60 days
before the general election held after the first 2 years of the term, the
appointment to fill the vacancy is for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Otherwise, the term of the person appointed to fill the vacancy extends to the
first Monday in December next following the first general election, held more
than 60 days after the day the vacancy occurs; at that general election, a
person shall be elected to the seat vacated for the remainder of the unexpired
term.
   (C)   To be eligible for appointment to fill a vacancy, a person must be a
member of the same political party as the member being replaced, if that member
was elected as the nominee of a political party, and be a resident of the same
district as the member being replaced, if the county is divided into electoral
districts.
   (D)   If the member who vacated the seat was elected as a nominee of a
political party, the Board of Commissioners, the Chairperson of the Board, or
the Clerk of the Superior Court, as the case may be, shall consult the County
Executive Committee of the appropriate political party before filling the
vacancy, and shall appoint the person recommended by the County Executive
Committees of the political party of which the Commissioner being replaced was
a member, if the party makes a recommendation within 30 days of the occurrence
of the vacancy.
   (E)   Whenever because of G.S. § 153A-58(3)(b). or because of any local act,
only the qualified voters of an area which is less than the entire county were
eligible to vote in the general election for the member whose seat is vacant,
the appointing authority must accept the recommendation only if the county’s
Executive Committee restricted voting to Committee members who represent
precincts all or part of which were within the territorial area of the district
of the County Commissioner.
   (F)   The provisions of an local act which provides that a County Executive
Committee of a political party shall fill any vacancy on a Board of County
Commissioners are repealed.
   (G)   Counties subject to this section are not subject to G.S. § 153A-27.
   (H)   This section shall apply only in the following counties: Alamance,
Alleghany, Avery, Beaufort, Brunswick, Buncombe, Cabarrus, Caldwell, Cateret,
Cherokee, Clay, Cleveland, Dare, Davidson, Davie, Edgecombe, Graham, Guilford,
Haywood, Henderson, Hyde, Jackson, Lee, Lincoln, Madison, McDowell,
Mecklenburg, Moore, New Hanover, Onslow, Pender, Polk, Randolph, Richmond,
Rockingham, Rutherford, Sampson, Stokes, Surry, Transylvania, Wake, Washington,
Wayne, and Yancey.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 296, § 1) (Prior Code, § 30.04)
Statutory reference:
   Vacancies, see G.S. § 153A-27.1
CHAPTER 31: COUNTY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Legal services for county officers, employees and the like;
reimbursement; indemnification
§ 31.01 LEGAL SERVICES FOR COUNTY OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND THE LIKE;
REIMBURSEMENT; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Defense.
      (1)   The county may provide legal services for the defense of any of its
officers, officials, agents or employees, excluding the Board of Education and
its employees, when a suit against them arises out of an of official act if the
requirements of this section are met. Whether a defense will be provided by the
county will be determined by the Board of Commissioners pursuant to a
determination of merit in each case. Such a defense will not necessarily be for
the benefit of the officer or employee but merely in support of his or her
actions on behalf of the county. An attorney may be hired especially for the
purpose of any such defense at county expense, or these services may be
provided by the Legal Department, or there may be reimbursement for the costs
of legal services incurred.
      (2)   The services or reimbursement may be provided to both past and
present officers and employees as long as the cause of action arose as a result
of acts or omissions occurring during their tenure of office or employment. The
defense or reimbursement may be provided although it may be ultimately
determined that the officer or employee exceeded his or her legal rights and
authorities. The defense may so be provided even though the result at a trial
at law clearly shows that the acts were illegal.
      (3)   Before a defense may be provided for an officer or employee, the
decision of the Board of Commissioners must be supported by findings, in the
record, qualifying the action as in conformity with the standards established
by this section.
   (B)   Indemnification. Any officer, official, agent or employee of the
county may be indemnified for all costs and judgments which he or she is
actually obligated or called upon to pay if the act or omission resulting in
judgment is 1 for which the individual would have been eligible for legal
services or reimbursement for legal services under this section.
   (C)   County not a party. Legal services, reimbursement and indemnification
may be provided by the county under this section irrespective of whether or not
the county is either a party to the cause or itself subject to liability.
   (D)   Findings prior to authorization. Before authorizing the defense,
reimbursement or indemnification the Board of Commissioners must affirmatively
find the following:
      (1)   The official or employee must have been active in a matter in which
the county had an interest;
      (2)   The official or employee must have been active in the discharge of
a duty imposed or authorized by law; and
      (3)   The official or employee must have acted in good faith.
   (E)   Insurance. This section and policy shall not be interpreted in any way
to relieve any insurance company of its obligations under any insurance policy
to protect the interests of any insured under such policy or to reduce or
eliminate the rights of any officer or employee of the county against any other
party. Furthermore, this section shall not be interpreted as a waiver of any
rights the county has against any party.
(Prior Code, § 31.01) (Ord. passed 5-7-1979)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
   
32.01   Definition
   
32.02   Meetings
§ 32.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC BODIES. Shall include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   County Airport Authority;
      (2)   Board of Elections;
      (3)   County Planning Board;
      (4)   Zoning Board of Adjustment;
      (5)   Board of Commissioners;
      (6)   Board of Equalization and Review;
      (7)   Board of Health;
      (8)   Board of Social Services;
      (9)   ABC Board;
      (10)   Jury Commission;
      (11)   County Library Board of Trustees;
      (12)   Motor Vehicle Valuation Review Board;
      (13)   Criminal Justice Board;
      (14)   Transfer Tax Appeals Board;
      (15)   Tourism Board; and
      (16)   Animal Control Advisory Board.
(Prior Code, § 32.01) (Ord. passed 9-7-1978)
§ 32.02 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All public bodies, as defined in G.S. §§ 143-318.9 et seq., should
forthwith and fully comply with the requirements of the article, relative to
open meetings.
   (B)   Every public body which adopts a schedule of regular meetings shall
file, prior to October 1, 1978, a copy of the schedule with the Clerk of the
Board of Commissioners and shall designate the regular meeting place of the
public body. If no public schedule is adopted, all meetings shall be considered
special meetings.
   (C)   (1)   Every public body shall file, prior to October 1, 1978, with the
Clerk of the Board of Commissioners the following information:
         (a)   What person is to receive requests for inclusion on the special
meetings notice list, including mailing address and office phone number;
         (b)   What person is to post and mail or deliver notices of special
meetings; and
         (c)   At what place special meeting notices will be posted.
      (2)   Requests for notice of special meetings must be renewed annually in
writing.
      (3)   No charge will be made for inclusion on the special meetings notice
list.
   (D)   Every public body shall maintain in emergency meeting notice list on
which only local news media may appear. LOCAL NEWS MEDIA shall be defined
broadly as entitles for the primary purpose of disseminating written or
broadcast news information, having home offices in the county and engaging in
the news dissemination at least twice weekly.
(Prior Code, § 32.02) (Ord. passed 9-7-1978)
CHAPTER 33: PERSONNEL POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Adoption by reference
§ 33.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of Ord. passed 1-14-1985 and revised 1-6-1992 are hereby
adopted as the personnel policies of the county and are made a part of this
code the same as if set forth in full herein. Copies of the personnel policies
are on file in the office of the Personnel Director and are available for
public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. passed 1-14-1985; Am. Ord. passed 1-6-1992; Am.
Ord. passed 1-5-1998)
CHAPTER 34: COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Cooperation between law enforcement agencies authorized
   
34.02   Prohibition on tobacco use in all Dare County facilities, property and
vehicles
§ 34.01 COOPERATION BETWEEN LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   In accordance with these rules, policies and guidelines the Sheriff of
Dare County is hereby authorized to enter into mutual assistance arrangements
with municipal, county and state law enforcement agencies provided that the
requests and authorizations shall comply with G.S. §§ 160A-288, 160A-288.2 and
90-95.2, as applicable.
   (B)   The Sheriff is authorized to permit deputies to work temporarily with
officers of the requesting agency including in an undercover capacity; and, the
Sheriff may lend the equipment and supplies to requesting agencies as he or she
deems advisable.
   (C)   While working with a requesting agency, a deputy shall have the same
jurisdiction, powers, rights, privileges and immunities (including those
relating to the defense of civil actions and payment of judgments) as the
officers of the requesting agency in addition to those he or she normally
possesses.
   (D)   The Sheriff shall submit to the Board of Commissioners copies of all
such agreements entered into and while no further ratification is required,
each agreement shall be subject to nullification upon repeal of the authority
granted by this section.
(Prior Code, § 34.01) (Am. Ord. passed 12-1-1988)
§ 34.02 PROHIBITION ON TOBACCO USE IN ALL DARE COUNTY FACILITIES, PROPERTY AND
VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definitions, taken directly from G.S. §§
130A-492 and 14-313(a) and to be amended by any amendments to G.S. §§ 130A-492
or 14-313(a), apply to this section:
      EMPLOYEE. A person who is employed by an employer, or who contracts with
an employer or third person to perform services for an employer, or who
otherwise performs services for an employer with or without compensation.
      GROUNDS. An unenclosed area owned, leased, or occupied by local
government.
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT BUILDING. A building owned, leased as lessor, or the
area leased as lessee and occupied by a local government.
      LOCAL VEHICLE. A passenger-carrying vehicle owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by local government and assigned permanently or temporarily by local
government to local government employees, agencies, institutions, or facilities
for official local government business.
      SMOKING. The use or possession of a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar,
lighted pipe, or any other lighted tobacco product.
      TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any product that contains tobacco and is intended for
human consumption, and any other items containing or reasonably resembling
tobacco or tobacco products.
   (B)   Areas in which smoking and tobacco use are prohibited. Smoking and the
use of tobacco products is prohibited:
      (1)   In any local government building, except in outside areas
designated by the County Manager at local government buildings that are not:
         (a)   Occupied by, operated by or used to perform services by the Dare
County Department of Health and Human Services*; or
         (b)   Buildings operated by or occupied by the Dare County Parks and
Recreation Department;
      (2)   In any local government building in which smoking is prohibited as
of April 16, 2012;
      (3)   In any local vehicle owned, leased, or operated by Dare County; and
      (4)   On any grounds that are owned, leased, occupied, or operated by
Dare County except specific areas upon grounds which may be designated by the
County Manager, adjoining a local government building, to serve as the smoking
area for those buildings in which smoking may be permitted under the provisions
of division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Implementation.
      (1)   Persons in charge of a building, vehicles and grounds or his or her
designee shall post signs that meet all the requirements in division (D) below.
      (2)   The person in charge of a building and grounds or his or her
designee shall remove all ashtrays and other smoking receptacles.
      (3)   The person in charge of a building, vehicle or grounds or his or
her designee who sees an individual using a tobacco product who is in violation
of this ordinance must ask that individual to stop using the tobacco product.
   (D)   Signage.
      (1)   The signs required by division (C) above must:
         (a)   State that tobacco use is prohibited and the sign must include
the international “No Smoking and Smokeless Tobacco” symbol (which consists of
a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette and smokeless tobacco product
enclosed in a red circle with a red bar across it);
         (b)   In areas where smoking may be permitted, the sign must include
the language “No Smoking and Smokeless Tobacco Except In Designated Areas” and
the international no smoking symbol (which consists of a pictorial
representation of a burning cigarette and smokeless tobacco product enclosed in
a red circle with a red bar across it);
         (c)   Be posted at each building entrance and on the grounds at a
height and location easily seen; and
         (d)   Be in legible font type.
      (2)   Persons in charge of vehicles identified in division (B) above or
his or her designee shall post signs in the vehicles explaining the
prohibition. The signs must be displayed in areas where passengers will be able
to see the signs but the placement of the signs must not interfere with the
safe operation of the vehicle.
      (3)   Nothing in this section prohibits a person in charge of buildings,
grounds and vehicles from posting additional signs in areas where smoking is
prohibited. For example, signs may be posted in other areas where people are
likely to want to use tobacco products, such as in bathrooms or in dining
areas.
      (4)   The person in charge of buildings, grounds and vehicles must
determine whether signs should be posted in languages other than English.
   (E)   Enforcement; penalties.
      (1)   Violations by employees. Employees who violate this section shall
be subject to sanctions consistent with Dare County human resources policies.
      (2)   Violations by other persons. Any person who, following oral or
written notice by the person in charge of the area or the person’s designee,
continues to smoke or to use tobacco products in an area where smoking or
tobacco use is prohibited by division (B) above commits an infraction. Pursuant
to G.S. § 130A-498(c1), the person committing the infraction may be punished by
a fine of not more than $50 and may not be assessed court costs. Conviction of
an infraction under this section has no consequence other than payment of a
penalty.
      (3)   Any amendments to the enforcement or penalty provisions listed in
G.S. § 130A-498(c1) apply to this section.
(Prior Code, § 34.02) (Ord. passed 10-4-1993; Am. Ord. passed 4-4-1994; Am.
Ord. passed 4-16-2012; Am. Ord. passed 1-20-2015; Am. Ord. passed 3-7-2022)
Penalty, see §
10.99
*Note:
   Medicaid prohibits the use of tobacco and/or tobacco products, as defined in
Dare County Code of Ordinances Section 34.02 Paragraph A Definitions, on or
around the facilities of any provider of services who bills Medicaid for said
services.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to prohibit smoking, see G.S. §§ 143-595 et seq.
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Appeals
Permit Provisions
   
50.15   Solid waste collector permit required
   
50.16   Application for permit
   
50.17   Term of permit
   
50.18   Issuance of permit
   
50.19   Revocation
   
50.20   Permits granting exclusive rights to collect in specified areas
Standards of Operation
   
50.30   Equipment and vehicles
   
50.31   Leaking or spilling prohibited
   
50.32   Limitation as to areas where waste collected
   
50.33   Persons holding exclusive rights to collected solid wastes to provide
all reasonable collection services requested
   
50.34   Cleanliness of operation
   
50.35   Evidence of permit to be displayed
   
50.36   Methods of disposal
   
50.37   Liability of solid waste collectors
   
50.38   Size of vehicles and loads
Licensing of Solid Waste Collectors
   
50.45   Definitions
   
50.46   Solid waste license required
   
50.47   Application, issuance, revocation of license
   
50.48   License fee
   
50.49   Non-transferability of licenses
   
50.50   Responsibilities of licensee
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Regulation of removal of trash, garbage, see G.S.§§ 153A-132.1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY MANAGER. The County Manager or his or her authorized agent.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal and vegetable matter,
animal offal and carcasses and recognizable industrial byproducts but excluding
sewage and human wastes.
   HEALTH DIRECTOR. The Environmental Health Director of the County Health
Department or his or her authorized agent.
   REFUSE. All nonputrescible wastes.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, rubbish, trash and other discarded solid
materials, including solid materials resulting from homes, businesses,
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations and from community
activities, but not including solids or dissolved materials in domestic sewage
or other significant pollutants in water resources, such as silt, dissolved or
suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, dissolved materials in
irrigation return flows or other common water pollutants.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects or transports solid waste
other than one who removes solid waste from his or her own premises.
(Prior Code, § 50.01) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
§ 50.02 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any action of the County Manager or Environmental
Health Director in carrying out this chapter may appeal in writing to the Board
of Commissioners for a hearing. No hearing shall be held unless written
petition therefor has been filed in the office of the County Manager on or
before the tenth day following the action aggrieved of. The hearing shall be
held as soon as practicable after receipt of the written petition. After the
hearing, the Board of Commissioners may approve or reverse the action of the
County Manager or Health Director or may take such other action as it deems
appropriate, including the reinstatement of a permit that has been revoked,
depending upon its findings as to whether or not this chapter has been complied
with.
(Prior Code, § 50.02) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 50.15 SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person may collect, transport or dispose of solid waste outside any
incorporated municipality in the county without a valid permit issued by the
County Manager; except, that any person may store, remove or otherwise dispose
of solid waste from his or her own premises in accordance with applicable
health regulations.
(Prior Code, § 50.15) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
§ 50.16 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Application for a solid waste collector permit or its renewal shall be made
upon a form prepared and furnished by the County Manager. The application shall
include the following information:
   (A)   Brief description of facilities, equipment and proposed operating
methods of the applicant;
   (B)   Indication of the geographic area proposed to be served by the
applicant;
   (C)   Number of employees; and
   (D)   Evidence of financial responsibility commensurate with the service to
be rendered.
(Prior Code, § 50.16) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
§ 50.17 TERM OF PERMIT.
   A permit shall be valid for 1 year.
(Prior Code, § 50.17) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
§ 50.18 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The County Manager shall issue a permit to the applicant when he or
she finds that the applicant can and will comply with the rules and regulations
established by this chapter.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to any person in the area in which the
county is providing solid waste collection.
(Prior Code, § 50.18) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
§ 50.19 REVOCATION.
   Whenever the County Manager finds that this chapter is not being complied
with, he or she shall give notice in writing to the solid waste collector that
unless the practices or conditions are corrected within 10 days his or her
permit shall be revoked. At the end of the 10-day period, the County Manager
shall make another finding, and if the practices or conditions have not been
corrected, he or she shall give notice in writing to the solid waste collector
that his or her permit has been revoked. Upon receipt of this notice, the solid
waste collector shall immediately cease to collect, transport or dispose of
solid waste until the time as his or her permit is reinstated or a new permit
obtained.
(Prior Code, § 50.19) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
§ 50.20 PERMITS GRANTING EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS TO COLLECT IN SPECIFIED AREAS.
   A solid waste collector permit may include a provision granting the
exclusive right to collect solid waste in a specified geographic area;
provided, that the Board of Commissioners has approved the provision on the
basis of necessity to insure an adequate and continuing collection service for
the particular area.
(Prior Code, § 50.20) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 50.30 EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES.
   Solid waste collection equipment and vehicles shall be leak-proof and
covered with a canvas or other substantial material, or otherwise constructed
so as to prevent leakage and spillage of the solid waste, and shall be approved
by the Health Director. Truck beds in which garbage is hauled must be cleaned
daily.
(Prior Code, § 50.30) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)  Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.31 LEAKING OR SPILLING PROHIBITED.
   Solid waste being collected or transported may not be leaked or spilled
along the streets or roads.
(Prior Code, § 50.31) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)  Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.32 LIMITATION AS TO AREAS WHERE WASTE COLLECTED.
   Solid waste may be collected only from the geographic areas specified by the
permit.
(Prior Code, § 50.32) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)  Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.33 PERSONS HOLDING EXCLUSIVE RIGHTS TO COLLECTED SOLID WASTES TO PROVIDE
ALL REASONABLE COLLECTION SERVICES REQUESTED.
   When the exclusive right to collect solid waste in an area is granted, the
permit holder shall provide all reasonable collection services requested in the
specified area.
(Prior Code, § 50.33) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 CLEANLINESS OF OPERATION.
   Collection services shall be provided and work shall be done in a clean and
orderly manner, without causing damage to the customers’ containers. Any solid
waste that is spilled shall be removed and the premises left in a sanitary
condition.
(Prior Code, § 50.34) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.35 EVIDENCE OF PERMIT TO BE DISPLAYED.
   Evidence of the permit shall be prominently displayed on each vehicle used
in collection service.
(Prior Code, § 50.35) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 METHODS OF DISPOSAL.
   Solid waste may be disposed of only by 1 of the following methods:
   (A)   By burning in an incinerator of a type approved by the Health Director
as safe and sanitary; or
   (B)   By burying in a sanitary landfill that is designed, operated and
equipped in accordance with the recommendations in Special Bulletin No. 411 of
the state’s Board of Health, Sanitary Engineering Division, entitled Rules and
Regulations Providing Standards for Solid Waste Disposal.
(Prior Code, § 50.36) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
§ 50.37 LIABILITY OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS.
   (A)   Each solid waste collector except the county or its sanitation
department shall maintain in force liability insurance coverage in the minimum
amount of $3,000.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit liability of a
solid waste collector for any damages resulting from collecting, transporting
or disposing of solid waste.
(Prior Code, § 50.37) (Ord. passed 6-7-1976)
§ 50.38 SIZE OF VEHICLES AND LOADS.
   (A)   The total outside width of any vehicle or the load thereon shall not
exceed 102 inches, except as otherwise provided in this section. When hogsheads
of tobacco are being transported, a tolerance of 6 inches is allowed. When
sheet or bale tobacco is being transported the load must not exceed a width of
114 inches at the top of the load and the bottom of the load at the truck bed
must not exceed the width of 102 inches inclusive of allowance for load
shifting or settling. Vehicles (other than passenger buses) that do not exceed
the overall width of 102 inches and otherwise provided in this section may be
operated in accordance with G.S. § 20-115.1(c), (f), and (g).
   (B)   No passenger-type vehicle or recreational vehicle shall be operated on
any highway with any load carried thereon extending beyond the line of the
fenders on the left side of such vehicle nor extending more than 6 inches
beyond the line of the fenders on the right side thereof.
   (C)   No vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed a height of 13 feet, 6
inches. Provided, however, that neither the State of North Carolina nor any
agency or subdivision thereof, nor any person, firm or corporation, shall be
required to raise, alter, construct or reconstruct any underpass, wire, pole,
trestle, or other structure to permit the passage of any vehicle having a
height, unladen or with load, in excess of 12 feet, 6 inches. Provided further,
that the operator or owner of any vehicle having an overall height, whether
unladen or with load, in excess of 12 feet, 6 inches, shall be liable for
damage to any structure caused by such vehicle having a height in excess of 12
feet, 6 inches.
   (D)   Maximum length. The following maximum lengths apply to vehicles. A
truck-tractor and semitrailer shall be regarded as 2 vehicles for the purpose
of determining lawful length and license taxes.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (D), a single vehicle
having 2 or more axles shall not exceed 40 feet in length overall of dimensions
inclusive of front and rear bumpers.
      (2)   Trucks transporting unprocessed cotton from farm to gin, or
unprocessed sage from farm to market shall not exceed 50 feet in length overall
of dimensions inclusive of front and rear bumpers.
      (3)   Recreational vehicles shall not exceed 45 feet in length overall,
excluding bumpers and mirrors.
      (4)   Vehicles owned or leased by state, local, or federal government,
when used for official law enforcement or emergency management purposes, shall
not exceed 45 feet in length overall, excluding bumpers and mirrors.
   (E)   Except as provided by G.S. § 20-115.1, no combination of vehicles
coupled together shall consist of more than 2 units and no such combination of
vehicles shall exceed a total length of 60 feet inclusive of front and rear
bumpers, subject to the following exceptions: Motor vehicle combinations of 1
semitrailer of not more than 53 feet in length and a truck tractor (power unit)
may exceed the 60-foot maximum length. Said maximum overall length limitation
shall not apply to vehicles operated in the daytime when transporting poles,
pipe, machinery or other objects of a structural nature which cannot readily be
dismembered, nor to such vehicles transporting such objects operated at
nighttime by a public utility when required for emergency repair of public
service facilities or properties, provided the trailer length does not exceed
53 feet in length, but in respect to such night transportation every such
vehicle and the load thereon shall be equipped with a sufficient number of
clearance lamps on both sides and marker lamps upon the extreme ends of said
projecting load to clearly mark the dimensions of such load: Provided that
vehicles designed and used exclusively for the transportation of motor vehicles
shall be permitted an overhang tolerance front or rear not to exceed 5 feet.
Provided, that wreckers may tow a truck, combination tractor and trailer,
trailer, or any other disabled vehicle or combination of vehicles to a place
for repair, parking, or storage within 50 miles of the point where the vehicle
was disabled and may tow a truck, tractor, or other replacement vehicle to the
site of the disabled vehicle. Provided further, that the said limitation that
no combination of vehicles coupled together shall consist of more than 2 units
shall not apply to trailers not exceeding 3 in number drawn by a motor vehicle
used by municipalities for the removal of domestic and commercial refuse and
street rubbish, but such combination of vehicles shall not exceed a total
length of 50 feet inclusive of front and rear bumpers. Provided further, that
the said limitation that no combination of vehicles coupled together shall
consist of more than 2 units shall not apply to a combination of vehicles
coupled together by a saddle mount device used to transport motor vehicles in a
driveway service when no more than 3 saddle mounts are used and provided
further, that equipment used in said combination is approved by the safety
regulations of the Federal Highway Administration and the safety rules of the
State Highway Patrol.
   (F)   (1)   The load upon any vehicle operated alone, or the load upon the
front vehicle of a combination of vehicles, shall not extend more than 3 feet
beyond the foremost part of the vehicle. Under this division (F), LOAD shall
include the boom on a self-propelled vehicle.
      (2)   A utility pole carried by a self-propelled pole carrier may extend
beyond the front overhang limit set in this division (F) if the pole cannot be
dismembered, the pole is less than 80 feet in length and does not extend more
than 10 feet beyond the front bumper of the vehicle, and either of the
following circumstances apply:
         (a)   It is daytime and the front of the extending load of poles is
marked by a flag of the type required by G.S. § 20-117 for certain rear
overhangs.
         (b)   It is nighttime, operation of the vehicle is required to make
emergency repairs to utility service, and the front of the extending load of
poles is marked by a light of the type required by G.S. § 20-117 for certain
rear overhangs.
      (3)   As used in this division (F), a SELF-PROPELLED POLE CARRIER is a
vehicle designed to carry a pole on the side of the vehicle at a height of at
least 5 feet when measured from the bottom of the brace used to carry the pole.
A  self-propelled pole carrier may not tow another vehicle when carrying a pole
that extends beyond the front overhang limit set in this division (F).
   (G)   (1)   No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any highway unless the
vehicle is constructed and loaded to prevent any of its load from falling,
blowing, dropping, sifting, leaking, or otherwise escaping therefrom, and the
vehicle shall not contain any holes, cracks, or openings through which any of
its load may escape. However, sand may be dropped for the purpose of securing
traction, or water or other substance may be sprinkled, dumped, or spread on a
roadway in cleaning or maintaining the roadway. For purposes of this division
(G), load does not include water accumulated from precipitation.
      (2)   A truck, trailer, or other vehicle licensed for more than 7,500
pounds gross vehicle weight that is loaded with rock, gravel, stone, or any
other similar substance, other than sand, that could fall, blow, leak, sift, or
drop shall not be driven or moved on any highway unless:
         (a)   The height of the load against all 4 walls does not extend above
a horizontal line 6 inches below their tops when loaded at the loading point;
and
         (b)   The load is securely covered by tarpaulin or some other suitable
covering to prevent any of its load from falling, dropping, sifting, leaking,
blowing, or otherwise escaping therefrom.
      (3)   A truck, trailer, or other vehicle (i) licensed for any gross
vehicle weight and loaded with sand; or (ii) licensed for 7,500 pounds or less
gross vehicle weight and loaded with rock, gravel, stone, or any other similar
substance that could fall, blow, leak, sift, or drop; shall not be driven or
moved on any highway unless:
         (a)   The height of the load against all 4our walls does not extend
above a horizontal line 6 inches below the top when loaded at the loading
point;
         (b)   The load is securely covered by tarpaulin or some other suitable
covering; or
         (c)   The vehicle is constructed to prevent any of its load from
falling, dropping, sifting, leaking, blowing, or otherwise escaping therefrom.
      (4)   This division (G) shall not be applicable to or in any manner
restrict the transportation of seed cotton, poultry or livestock, or silage or
other feed grain used in the feeding of poultry or livestock.
   (H)   Whenever there exist 2 highways of the state highway system of
approximately the same distance between 2 or more points, the Department of
Transportation may, when in the opinion of the Department of Transportation,
based upon engineering and traffic investigation, safety will be promoted or
the public interest will be served, designate 1 of the highways the “truck
route” between those points, and to prohibit the use of the other highway by
heavy trucks or other vehicles of a gross vehicle weight or axle load limit in
excess of a designated maximum. In such instances the highways selected for
heavy vehicle traffic shall be designated as “truck routes” by signs
conspicuously posted, and the highways upon which heavy vehicle traffic is
prohibited shall likewise be designated by signs conspicuously posted showing
the maximum gross vehicle weight or axle load limits authorized for those
highways. The operation of any vehicle whose gross vehicle weight or axle load
exceeds the maximum limits shown on signs over the posted highway shall
constitute a Class 2 misdemeanor: Provided, that nothing in this division (H)
shall prohibit a truck or other motor vehicle whose gross vehicle weight or
axle load exceeds that prescribed for those highways from using them when its
destination is located solely upon that highway, road or street: Provided,
further, that nothing in this division (H) shall prohibit passenger vehicles or
other light vehicles from using any highways designated for heavy truck
traffic.
   (I)   Reserved.
   (J)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the operation of
self-propelled grain combines or other self-propelled farm equipment with or
without implements, not exceeding 25 feet in width on any highway, unless the
operation violates a provision of this section. FARM EQUIPMENT includes a
vehicle that is designed exclusively to transport compressed seed cotton from a
farm to a gin and has a self-loading bed. Combines or equipment which exceed 10
feet in width may be operated only if they meet all of the conditions listed in
this division (J). A violation of 1 or more of these conditions does not
constitute negligence per se.
      (1)   The equipment may only be operated during daylight hours.
      (2)   The equipment must display a red flag on front and rear ends or a
flashing warning light. The flags or lights shall be attached to the equipment
as to be visible from both directions at all times while being operated on the
public highway for not less than 300 feet.
      (3)   Equipment covered by this section, which by necessity must travel
more than 10 miles or where by nature of the terrain or obstacles the flags or
lights referred to in division (J)(2) above are not visible from both
directions for 300 feet at any point along the proposed route, must be preceded
at a distance of 300 feet and followed at a distance of 300 feet by a flagman
in a vehicle having mounted thereon an appropriate warning light or flag. No
flagman in a vehicle shall be required pursuant to this division (J)(2) if the
equipment is being moved under its own power or on a trailer from any field to
another field, or from the normal place of storage of the vehicle to any field,
for no more than 10 miles and if visible from both directions for 300 feet at
any point along the proposed route.
      (4)   Every piece of equipment so operated shall operate to the right of
the center line when meeting traffic coming from the opposite direction and at
all other times when possible and practical.
      (5)   Reserved.
      (6)   When the equipment is causing a delay in traffic, the operator of
the equipment shall move the equipment off the paved portion of the highway at
the nearest practical location until the vehicles following the equipment have
passed.
      (7)   The equipment shall be operated in the designed transport position
that minimizes equipment width. No removal of equipment or appurtenances is
required under this division (J)(7).
      (8)   Equipment covered by this division (J) shall not be operated on a
highway or section of highway that is a fully controlled access highway or is a
part of the National System of Interstate and Defense Highways without
authorization from the North Carolina Department of Transportation. The
Department shall develop an authorization process and approve routes under the
following conditions:
         (a)   Persons shall submit an application to the Department requesting
authorization to operate equipment covered by this division (J) on a particular
route that is part of a highway or section of highway that is a fully
controlled access highway or is a part of the National System of Interstate and
Defense Highways.
         (b)   The Department shall have a period of 30 days from receipt of a
complete application to approve or reject the application. A complete
application shall be deemed approved if the Department does not take action
within 30 days of receipt by the Department; such a route may then be used by
the original applicant.
         (c)   The Department shall approve an application upon a showing that
the route is necessary to accomplish 1 or more of the following:
            1.   Prevent farming operations from traveling more than 5 miles
longer than the requested route during the normal course of business.
            2.   Prevent excess traffic delays on local or secondary roads.
            3.   Allow farm equipment access due to dimension restrictions on
local or secondary roads.
         (d)   For applications that do not meet the requirements of division
(J)(8)(c) above, the Department may also approve an application upon review of
relevant safety factors.
         (e)   The Department may consult with the North Carolina State Highway
Patrol, the North Carolina Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services, or
other parties concerning an application.
         (f)   Any approved route may be subject to any of the following
additional conditions:
            1.   A requirement that the subject equipment be followed by a flag
vehicle with flashing lights that shall be operated at all times on the route
so as to be visible from a distance of at least 300 feet.
            2.   Restrictions on maximum and minimum speeds of the equipment.
            3.   Restrictions on the maximum dimensions of the equipment.
            4.   Restrictions on the time of day that the equipment may be
operated on the approved route.
         (g)   The Department shall publish all approved routes, including any
conditions on the routes’ use, and shall notify appropriate state and local law
enforcement officers of any approved route.
         (h)   Once approved for use and published by the Department, a route
may be used by any person who adheres to the route, including any conditions on
the route’s use imposed by the Department.
         (i)   The Department may revise published routes as road conditions on
the routes change.
   (K)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the operation of
passenger buses having an overall width of 102 inches, exclusive of safety
equipment, upon the highways of this state which are 20 feet or wider and that
are designated as the state primary system, or as municipal streets, when, and
not until, the federal law and regulations thereunder permit the operation of
passenger buses having a width of 102 inches or wider on the National System of
Interstate and Defense Highways.
   (L)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the operation of
passenger buses that are owned and operated by units of local government,
operated as a single vehicle and having an overall length of 45 feet or less or
as an articulated vehicle and having an overall length of 65 feet or less, on
public streets or highways. The Department of Transportation may prevent the
operation of buses that are authorized under this division (L) if the operation
of such buses on a street or highway presents a hazard to passengers of the
buses or to the motoring public.
   (M)   Notwithstanding division (A) of this section, a boat or boat trailer
with an outside width of less than 120 inches may be towed without a permit.
The towing of a boat or boat trailer 102 inches to 114 inches in width may take
place on any day of the week, including weekends and holidays, and may take
place at night. The towing of a boat or boat trailer 114 inches to 120 inches
in width may take place on any day of the week, including weekends and holidays
from sun up to sun down. A boat or boat trailer in excess of 102 inches but
less than 120 inches must be equipped with a minimum of 2 operable amber lamps
on the widest point of the boat and the boat trailer such that the dimensions
of the boat and the boat trailer are clearly marked and visible.
   (N)   (1)   Vehicle combinations used in connection with motorsports
competition events that include a cab or other motorized vehicle unit with
living quarters, and an attached enclosed specialty trailer, the combination of
which does not exceed 90 feet in length, may be operated on the highways of
this state, provided that such operation takes place for 1 or more of the
following purposes:
         (a)   Driving to or from a motorsports competition event.
         (b)   For trips conducted for the purpose of purchasing fuel or
conducting repairs or other maintenance on the competition vehicle.
         (c)   For other activities related to motorsports purposes, including,
but not limited to, performance testing of the competition vehicle.
      (2)   The Department of Transportation may prohibit combinations
authorized by this division (N) from specific routes, pursuant to G.S. § 20-
115.1(b). (G.S. § 20-116) (Prior Code, § 50.38)
LICENSING OF SOLID WASTE COLLECTORS
§ 50.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Dare County Board of Commissioners.
   COLLECTION. The act of removing solid waste to the transfer stations or the
facility.
   FACILITY. The East Carolina Environmental Landfill in Bertie County, North
Carolina.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, unit
of local government, state agency, federal agency or other legal entity.
   SOLID WASTE. Any solid wastes that may be disposed of in sanitary landfills,
including, without limitation, garbage, refuse, trash and other discarded
material, whether from residential, commercial, industrial or institutional
sources, which wastes are typically found in household, commercial or municipal
refuse.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTOR. Any person who collects, transports or disposes of
solid wastes for compensation, other than one who removes solid waste from his
or her own premises.
   SOLID WASTE LICENSE or LICENSE. A license for the collection, transportation
and disposal of solid waste pursuant to § 50.46.
   TRANSFER STATIONS. The following three transfer stations: Chowan/Gales/
Perquimans Counties Transfer Station, Currituck County Transfer Station and
Dare County Transfer Station.
(Ord. passed 7-20-2009)
§ 50.46 SOLID WASTE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a solid waste
collector within any area of the county, without first having procured a solid
waste license from the Board. All solid waste collectors within the county
shall dispose of all solid waste generated within any area of the county at the
facility or the transfer stations.
(Ord. passed 7-20-2009) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.47 APPLICATION, ISSUANCE, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Application. All applicants for solid waste licenses shall file a
written application with the Board’s authorized representative and shall
furnish the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant, and whether the applicant is
a sole proprietorship, corporation, partnership or other entity;
      (2)   A list of the collection vehicles the applicant plans to use in the
county; and
      (3)   Any other information the Board’s authorized representative may
reasonably request.
   (B)   Five-year license. Solid waste licenses shall be issued for 5-year
periods. Licenses may be renewed with the information designated in division
(A) above being presented to the Board’s authorized representative at least 30
days prior to the expiration of the existing and valid license.
   (C)   Selection of applicants; granting of licenses. The Board’s authorized
representative shall review applications for solid waste licenses and license
renewals, and shall issue licenses and renewals to applicants meeting the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   Investigation of solid waste collectors prior to license issuance.
Before issuing a license pursuant to this subchapter, the Board’s authorized
representative may inspect the facilities, equipment and solid waste collection
vehicles the applicant plans to use in the solid waste collection business.
      (1)   The Board’s authorized representative shall issue the applicant a
license when the Board’s authorized representative determines that the
application is complete and the applicant is in compliance with this
subchapter.
      (2)   When a license is issued to a solid waste collector, the solid
waste collector shall affix a sticker indicating that the solid waste collector
has a valid license to all of its solid waste collection vehicles that are to
be operated in the county. The Board’s authorized representative shall issue
stickers to the solid waste collector at the time the license is issued.
Licensees may obtain additional stickers from the Board’s authorized
representative.
      (3)   If the Board’s authorized representative denies an applicant a
license, the applicant may request a hearing before the Board by giving written
notice of appeal to the County Manager within 5 working days of receipt of the
Board’s authorized representative’s decision denying the license. After a
hearing on the appeal, the Board shall either affirm the denial or direct the
Board’s authorized representative to issue the license.
   (E)   Revocation. When the Board’s authorized representative finds that a
licensee has violated this subchapter or the conditions of the license, the
licensee shall receive written notice of the violation and be informed that if
another violation occurs within 30 working days, or in the case of continuing
violation if it is not corrected within 10-working days, the license will be
revoked. If another violation occurs within the 30-working day period, or if
the continuing violation is not corrected within 10-working days, the Board’s
authorized representative shall give the licensee written notice that the
license is revoked. Upon receipt of the revocation, the licensee shall cease
collecting, transporting or disposing of solid wastes in any area of the county
immediately. The Board’s authorized representative may reinstate a revoked
license after the revocation has been in effect for 30 working days if the
Board’s authorized representative finds that the conditions causing the
violation have been corrected. A licensee whose license has been revoked may
appeal the revocation to the Board by giving written notice of the appeal to
the Board’s authorized representative within 5 working days of receiving notice
of revocation from the Board’s authorized representative. After a hearing on
the appeal, the Board shall either affirm the revocation or direct the Board’s
authorized representative to reinstate the license.
(Ord. passed 7-20-2009)
§ 50.48 LICENSE FEE.
   The licensee shall pay to the county or its authorized representative, the
sum set by the designated representative, not to exceed $50, for the issuance
of the license, and the sum of $1 for each sticker to be affixed to each solid
waste collection vehicle.
(Ord. passed 7-20-2009)
§ 50.49 NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES.
   Solid waste licenses are non-transferable and non-assignable.
(Ord. passed 7-20-2009)
§ 50.50 RESPONSIBILITIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   The licensee shall serve every person who contracts with him or her
for solid waste collection in such a manner that the licensee does not cause
the person to be in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   The licensee shall dispose of all solid waste generated within any
area of the county at the facility or the transfer stations.
   (C)   A licensee shall submit an annual report to the Board’s authorized
representative containing the following information:
      (1)   A list of the collection vehicles the licensee used in the county
during the reporting year;
      (2)   The total amount of solid waste collected in the county and the
locations where the solid waste was disposed of during the reporting year;
      (3)   A certification that all solid waste the licensee collected in the
county was disposed of at the facility or the transfer stations; and
      (4)   Any other information the Board’s authorized representative may
reasonably request.
(Ord. passed 7-20-2009)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Licencing of solid waste collectors.
      (1)   Penalty.  Any person who is found in violation of §§
50.45 through
50.50 shall be subject to a civil penalty of not to exceed $500 as provided in
G.S. § 153-123. Each day’s violation shall be treated as a separate offense.
      (2)   Remedies. The provisions of §§
50.45 through
50.50 may be enforced by equitable remedies, and any unlawful condition
existing or in violation of §§
50.45 through
50.50 may be enforced by injunction and order of abatement in accordance with
G.S. § 153A-123.
(Ord. passed 7-20-2009)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Restricting drainage ditches
   
51.02   Connection available with deposit fee upon certification of need
Installation and Connection of Water Lines
   
51.10   Responsibilities and liabilities of county
   
51.11   Responsibilities and liabilities of consumers
   
51.12   Prohibited connections; inspection of property
   
51.13   Unauthorized connections to water systems
   
51.14   Introduction of prohibited water or substances into system
Water Services
   
51.20   Classification of services
   
51.21   Application for service
   
51.22   Discontinuation of service; changes in occupancy
   
51.23   Suspension of service
   
51.24   Complaints and adjustments
   
51.25   Promises or agreements not binding for service
Extensions
   
51.35   Procedure for extensions to undeveloped subdivisions
   
51.36   Extensions within county’s service areas
   
51.37   Extensions of transmission mains
Fees and Charges
   
51.45   Deposit for water service
   
51.46   Initial or minimum charge; water to be used only on lot for which
required
   
51.47   Application fees for service
   
51.48   Rate schedule
   
51.49   Surcharge
Administration
   
51.60   Access of county to consumer’s premises
   
51.61   Modifications of rates, rules or regulations
Cross-reference:
   Wells, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 RESTRICTING DRAINAGE DITCHES.
   (A)   It is dangerous and prejudicial to the public health to alter,
restrict or impede the flow of water in drainage ditches, creeks, streams,
rivers and other water courses.
   (B)   No drainage ditch, creek, stream, river or other water course shall
henceforth be blocked or filled in to any degree with any substance or device
whatever such that the flow of water toward natural creeks, rivers and water
bodies is restricted or impeded except by a written permit issued by the Board
of Commissioners. No permit shall be issued except after a public hearing after
10-days’ notice on the question whether the proposed restriction or impediment
would result in possible harm to the public health.
(Prior Code, § 51.01) (Ord. passed 7-5-1988)
§ 51.02 CONNECTION AVAILABLE WITH DEPOSIT FEE UPON CERTIFICATION OF NEED.
   (A)   Upon certification of need by the Dare County Department of Social
Services and with the concurrence of the County Manager, a property owner will
be allowed to become a customer of the Dare County Water System upon immediate
payment of the required deposit fee. Impact and connection fees can be financed
over a 5-year period at 5% interest. The financed payments will be included in
the quarterly water bill until paid.
   (B)   All other rules and regulations of the Dare County Water System will
apply.
(Prior Code, § 51.02) (Res. passed - -1999)
INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION OF WATER LINES
§ 51.10 RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITIES OF COUNTY.
   (A)   The county shall, when it elects to do so, install a water service
line from its distribution line to the property line, for which a tap-on fee in
effect for each size of meter will be charged.
   (B)   The county may install its meter at the property line or, at the
county’s option, on the consumer’s property or in a location mutually agreed
upon.
   (C)   The county does not assume the responsibility of inspecting the
consumer’s piping or apparatus and will not be responsible therefor.
   (D)   The county reserves the right to refuse service unless the consumer’s
lines or piping are installed in such manner as to prevent cross-connections or
backflow.
   (E)   The county shall not be liable for damage of any kind whatsoever
resulting from water or the use of water on the consumer’s premises. The county
shall not be responsible for any damage done by or resulting from any defect in
the piping, fixtures or appliances on the consumer’s premises. The county shall
not be responsible for negligence of third persons or forces beyond the control
of the county resulting in any interruption of service.
   (F)   Under normal conditions, the consumer will be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
(Prior Code, § 51.10) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
§ 51.11 RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITIES OF CONSUMERS.
   (A)   Piping on the water consumer’s premises must be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the county’s lines or
mains.
   (B)   When a meter is placed on the premises of a consumer, a suitable place
shall be provided by the consumer for placing the meter, unobstructed and
accessible at all times to the meter reader.
   (C)   The consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cutoff valve on the
consumer’s side of the meter, and the county shall provide a like valve on the
county’s side of the meter.
   (D)   The consumer’s piping and apparatus shall be installed and maintained
by the consumer at the consumer’s expense in a safe and efficient manner and in
accordance with the county’s rules and regulations, and in full compliance with
the sanitary regulations of the state’s Board of Health.
   (E)   The property owner shall be responsible for the county’s property
placed on the owner’s premises and shall permit access to such property only
authorized representatives of the county.
   (F)   In the event of any loss or damage to the property of the county which
is caused by or results from the negligence or wrongful act of the owner, his
or her agents or employees, the cost of the necessary repairs or replacements
shall be paid by the owner to the county, and any liability otherwise resulting
shall be assumed by the owner. The amount of the loss or damage or the cost of
repairs shall be added to the owner’s bill, and if the charges are not paid,
service may be discontinued by the county.
(Prior Code, § 51.11) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.12 PROHIBITED CONNECTIONS; INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect by any means whatever
or allow to be connected to the Dare County Regional Water Supply System
(hereinafter called system) or any water distribution line serviced thereby any
other source of water supply.
   (B)   The County Water Superintendent or a designated Water Department
employee may inspect at reasonable times and without prior notice any property
serviced by the system in order to determine that no prohibited connection
exists.
   (C)   Violations of this section shall be punishable as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 51.12) (Ord. passed 4-6-1981) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 51.13 UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTIONS TO WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than an authorized agent or
employee of the Dare County Water System to connect to that water system any
hose, pipe or other apparatus for the purpose of an unauthorized withdrawal of
water from that system.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than an authorized agent or
employee of the owner of a water system to tamper with a water hydrant or
withdraw water from a water hydrant for any purpose not approved by the Dare
County Water System.
(Sess. Law. 1983, ch. 967, § 1) (Prior Code, § 51.13) (Am. Ord. passed 7-17-
1995)
§ 51.14 INTRODUCTION OF PROHIBITED WATER OR SUBSTANCES INTO SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person except duly authorized personnel
of the county’s Water Department to introduce water or any other substance into
the system.
   (B)   Violations of this section shall be punishable as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 51.14) (Ord. passed 4-6-1981) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
WATER SERVICES
§ 51.20 CLASSIFICATION OF SERVICES.
   All water services are classified as follows:
   (A)   Residential, including: schools and churches; and
   (B)   Commercial users.
(Prior Code, § 51.20) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.21 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Water service will be supplied only to those who have applied and paid
the appropriate tap-on fee.
   (B)   Customers will make application for service in writing on the proper
forms, delivered to the appropriate water distribution billing office and shall
pay the required fees and deposits.
   (C)   The county may reject any application for service not available under
a standard rate, or which involves excessive service cost, or which may affect
the supply of service to other customers, or for other good and sufficient
reasons, in which case the tap-on fee and deposit will be refunded.
   (D)   The county may reject any application for service when the applicant
is delinquent in payment of bills incurred for service previously supplied at
any location; provided, that when the owner of the premises has been served
water and has not paid for the same, the county shall not be required to render
services to anyone at such location where the water was used until the water
bill has been paid.
(Prior Code, § 51.21) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.22 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE; CHANGES IN OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Not less than 3-days’ notice must be given, in person or in writing,
at the Water Department office for discontinuing service or for a change in
occupancy.
   (B)   The outgoing party shall be responsible for all water consumed up to
the time of departure or the time specified for departure, whichever period if
longer.
(Prior Code, § 51.22) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
§ 51.23 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   When water services are discontinued and all bills paid, the deposit
will be refunded.
   (B)   It is the policy of the county to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The county’s form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
10 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
   (E)   Service discontinued for nonpayment of bills will be restored only
after bills are paid in full, redeposit made and a service charge paid for each
meter reconnected.
   (F)   The county reserves the right to discontinue its service without
notice for the following additional reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse;
      (2)   Consumer’s willful disregard of the county’s rules;
      (3)   Emergency repairs;
      (4)   Insufficiency of supply due to circumstances beyond the county’s
control;
      (5)   Legal processes;
      (6)   Direction of public authorities; and
      (7)   Strike, riot, fire, flood, accident or any unavoidable cause.
   (G)   The county may, in addition to prosecution by law, permanently refuse
service to any consumer who tampers with a meter or other measuring device.
(Prior Code, § 51.23) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
§ 51.24 COMPLAINTS AND ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If a water consumer believes his or her bill to be in error, he
or she shall present his or her claim in person at the Water Department office
before the bill becomes delinquent.
      (2)   The claim, if made after the bill has become delinquent, shall not
be effective in preventing discontinuance of service as provided in
§ 51.23 above. The consumer may pay the bill under protest, and the payment
shall not prejudice his or her claim.
   (B)   The county will, for a fee, make special meter readings at the request
of the consumer; provided, that if the special reading disclosed that the meter
was overread, no charge will be made.
   (C)   The county will for a fee test the meter at the request of the
consumer, however if the meter is found to over-register beyond 5% of the
correct volume, no charge will be made.
   (D)   If the seal of a meter is broken by other than the county’s
representative or if the meter fails to register correctly or is stopped for
any cause, the consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of his or
her previous bills and/or from other proper data.
   (E)   A payment plan may be available for water leak adjustment bills in
excess of $500 upon written request.
(Prior Code, § 51.24) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.25 PROMISES OR AGREEMENTS NOT BINDING FOR SERVICE.
   No promise, agreement or representation of any employee of the county
relative to county water service shall be binding upon the county, except as it
shall have been agreed upon in writing, signed and accepted by the acknowledged
representative of the county.
(Prior Code, § 51.25) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
EXTENSIONS
§ 51.35 PROCEDURE FOR EXTENSIONS TO UNDEVELOPED SUBDIVISIONS.
   Water distribution lines to serve undeveloped subdivisions will be handled
as follows:
   (A)   The developer will submit plans for reviews and approval by the
county, its engineers and the state’s Board of Health.
   (B)   The developer will install the lines in accordance with the approved
plans.
   (C)   Upon completion and approval by the county of the new extension, the
developer will deed the complete facility, to include all right-of-way,
easements, permits, franchises and authorization or other instruments needed
for the operation and maintenance of the facility, to the county. The county
will not reimburse the developer for the extension.
(Prior Code, § 51.35) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.36 EXTENSIONS WITHIN COUNTY’S SERVICE AREAS.
   Extension of water lines within the county’s service areas will be handled
as follows:
   (A)   The plans for the extension will be submitted for review and approval
by the county, its engineer and the state’s Board of Health.
   (B)   The lines will be installed in accordance with the approved plans.
   (C)   Prior to or upon completion of the new extension, all rights-of-way,
easements, permits, franchises and authorizations or other instruments needed
for the installation, operation and maintenance of the facility will be deeded
to the county. The cost involved in the new extension will be paid by the
person requesting the extension, or at the discretion of the Board of
Commissioners, the extensions can be specially assessed pursuant to G.S. Ch.
153A, Art. 9.
(Prior Code, § 51.36) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.37 EXTENSIONS OF TRANSMISSION MAINS.
   Extensions of transmission mains may be handled as follows:
   (A)   The plans for the extension will be submitted for review and approval
by the county, its engineer and the state’s Board of Health.
   (B)   The county shall determine the economic feasibility of the extension,
in addition to the engineering feasibility. If the extension is not projected
to create income in excess of operation and maintenance costs, the extension
shall be deemed not to be economically feasible.
   (C)   If it is determined by the county that the extension is economically
feasible, the lines shall be installed in accordance with the approved plans
(approved plans for transmission mains need not include fire hydrants; however,
all distribution systems shall include properly spaced fire hydrants).
   (D)   Prior to or upon completion of the new extension, all rights-of-way,
easements, permits, franchises and authorizations or other instruments needed
for the installation, operation and maintenance of the facility will be deeded
to the county.
   (E)   The county will repay the installer 50% of the total cost of the
transmission main in 3 or more annual payments beginning at the end of the
third year after completion of the extension. The total cost for reimbursement
purposes will be determined by the engineer selected by the county and will
include its engineering fee.
   (F)   Annual repayments by the county will not exceed $5,000 or the amount
of receipts occasioned by the extension less operation and maintenance costs
pertaining to the extension.
   (G)   For the purposes of this subsection, TRANSMISSION MAINS shall be
defined as pipelines delivering water from the existing county system through
the property of others to the property line of the proposed development. All
pipelines within the development and/or the lands of the developer shall be
considered distribution lines and shall be installed at the developer’s expense
without reimbursement as set out in division (A) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 51.37) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 51.45 DEPOSIT FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   A water deposit will be twice the minimum charge. Interest will not be
paid to customers on their water deposit.
   (B)   Water accounts and deposits shall be in the name of the property
owner. The property owner shall be responsible for payment of all bills
incurred in connection with the service furnished.
   (C)   A separate deposit is required for each meter installed.
   (D)   The deposit receipt is not negotiable and only redeemed at the Water
Department office. When the county finds that a request for a refund is
questionable, the county may require the applicant for such a refund to produce
a properly endorsed receipt.
   (E)   Deposits are not refundable until discontinuance of service. Deposit
in excess of the final bill will be refunded to the customer.
   (F)   In the event of an owner of property has taken legal action to evict a
tenant from owner’s property and the tenant is a customer of the Dare County
Water System, the county will honor a request from the owner to discontinue
service to the leased premises unless the tenant posts a sufficient water
security deposit with the county to be used to pay any outstanding water
account incurred by the tenant during the pendency of the legal action.
(Prior Code, § 51.45) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.46 INITIAL OR MINIMUM CHARGE; WATER TO BE USED ONLY ON LOT FOR WHICH
REQUIRED.
   (A)   The initial or minimum charge, as provided in the rate schedule, shall
be made for each water meter installed, regardless of location. Each meter
requires a separate meter reading sheet and each meter reading sheet shall
cover a separate and individual account.
   (B)   Water furnished for a given lot or parcel shall be used on that lot or
parcel only.
(Prior Code, § 51.46) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.47 APPLICATION FEES FOR SERVICE.
   Application fees for service shall be as set out in fee schedules adopted
from time to time by the Dare County Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 51.47) (Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.48 RATE SCHEDULE.
   Water charges for water shall be as set out in fee schedules adopted from
time to time by the Dare County Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 51.48) (Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.49 METER READINGS; BILLING; DELINQUENT BILLS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Water meters will be read and bills rendered quarterly, on or about
March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1, but the county reserves the right
to vary the dates or length of period covered, temporarily or permanently, if
necessary or desirable.
   (B)   Bills for water will be figured in accordance with the county’s
published rate schedule then in effect and will be based on the amount consumed
for the period covered by the meter readings.
   (C)   Charges for service commence when a meter is installed and a
connection made, whether used or not. Sixty days may be allowed for
installation of the water meter.
   (D)   Readings from different meters will not be combined for billing. There
will be a separate bill for each meter.
   (E)   Initial bills are due and payable upon receipt and become delinquent
20 days thereafter, whereupon a penalty of 10% will be added and service may be
discontinued by the county.
   (F)   Accounts that remain delinquent shall be addressed in the manner set
out in
§ 51.23. Service will be restored only after a resolution pursuant to
§ 51.23, redeposit made and a service charge paid for each meter reconnected or
after bills are paid in full for each meter reconnected.
   (G)   Failure to receive bills or notices shall not prevent the bills from
becoming delinquent or relieve the consumer from payment.
   (H)   A service charge will be assessed for all returned checks. After 2
returned checks, a customer may be required to pay bills by cash, money order
or certified check.
   (I)   Bills to be paid by the Dare County Social Services for emergency
relief for customers shall not be subject to disconnection policies.
(Prior Code, § 51.49) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
Cross-reference:
   Connection available with deposit fee upon certification of need, see
§ 51.02
ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.60 ACCESS OF COUNTY TO CONSUMER’S PREMISES.
   (A)   Duly authorized agents of the county shall have access at all
reasonable hours to the premises of the consumer for the purpose of installing
or removing county property, inspecting piping, reading or testing meters or
for any other purpose in connection with the county’s water service and
facilities.
   (B)   Each property owner shall grant or convey or shall cause to be granted
or conveyed to the county a perpetual easement and right-of-way across any
property owned or controlled by the owner wherever such perpetual easement and
right-of-way is necessary so as to be able to furnish water service to the
owner.
(Prior Code, § 51.60) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978; Am. Ord. passed 7-17-1995)
§ 51.61 MODIFICATIONS OF RATES, RULES OR REGULATIONS.
   No modification of water rates or any of the rules and regulations shall be
made by any agent of the county.
(Prior Code, § 51.61) (Ord. passed 7-11-1978)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Parking restricted on certain county-owned property
   
70.02   Parking prohibited on certain streets
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 PARKING RESTRICTED ON CERTAIN COUNTY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   No motor vehicle shall be parked on the following county-owned
property, except when the driver or an occupant is engaged in county business
within the county administrative building or has an office therein: All that
certain lot or parcel of land, together with the houses and improvements
thereon, lying and being in the Town of Manteo, Nags Head Township, Dare
County, North Carolina, adjoining the lands of Edna E. Bell and others, and
bounded as follows: Beginning at an iron pipe situated in and on the north
margin or right-of-way of the state highway leading into Manteo, North
Carolina, also known as Highway Street in the Town of Manteo, North Carolina,
the iron pipe being in and marking the southeast corner of the lands of Mrs.
Edna E. Bell on the north side of Highway Street; the iron pipe and beginning
point is also located 137 feet measured along the north margin or right-of-way
of Highway Street north 72 degrees 28 minutes east from the face of the curb at
the northeast corner of the intersection of Church and Highway Streets in the
Town of Manteo, North Carolina, running thence from the beginning point along
the north margin or right-of-way of Highway Street north 72 degrees 28 minutes
east 177.80 feet to a post or other marker; thence, north 15 degrees 38 minutes
west 101.30 feet to a point; thence south 75 degrees 0 minutes 30 seconds west
190 feet, more or less, to a post or other marker situated in and marking the
east line of the Mrs. Edna E. Bell property; thence, along the Mrs. Edna E.
Bell property east line south 19 degrees 22 minutes 45 seconds east 115 feet,
more or less, to the point of beginning, except as this description may have
been modified by that certain boundary agreement between Dare County and Mabel
Evans Jones, dated March 7, 1975, and recorded in deed book 222 at page 103,
Dare County Registry, on file in the office of the County Register of Deeds and
incorporated in this section by reference.
   (B)   The hours during which this section shall be effective are 7:00 a.m.
through 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week; except, that within the
emergency lane shown on the plat on file in the office of the register of
deeds, incorporated in this section by reference, this section shall be
effective at all times (24 hours a day, seven days a week).
   (C)   PARKING shall be defined, for the purposes of this section, as the
stopping of a motor vehicle without an attendant and qualified driver in a
position to control the movement of the vehicle.
   (D)   Vehicles parked in violation of this section may be removed by the
county or its agent to a storage area or garage, and the owner or his or her
agent, as a condition of regaining possession of the vehicle, shall be required
to pay to the county all reasonable costs incidental to the removal and storage
of the vehicle. These costs shall be in addition to any criminal fines should a
warrant be issued.
   (E)   Vehicles unclaimed within 30 days from removal shall be deemed to be
abandoned, and the county may institute a proceeding to sell the same to
satisfy the storage and other charges.
(Prior Code, § 70.01) (Am. Ord. passed 6-5-1978) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.02 PARKING PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   On those streets, roads, ways described in division (D) below, parking
of a vehicle is specifically prohibited during the time period denoted for each
location.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      STREET. A right-of-way for vehicular traffic. The word shall include
“road,” “way,” “land,” “circle,” “court” or any other word describing a right-
of-way for vehicular traffic. This includes the entire width between property
or right-of-way lines.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn, excepting devices moved by human power. This
definition shall not include a device which is designed for and intended to be
used as a means of transportation for a person with a mobility impairment, is
suitable for use both inside and outside a building, and whose maximum speed
does not exceed 12 mph when the device is being operated by a person with a
mobility impairment.
   (C)   A sign containing the language “No Parking at Any Time” or “No Parking
Between the Hours * a.m. and * p.m.” (* as designated in division (D) below) or
similar language denoting the place and hours of prohibition* shall be
exhibited within the area at no less than 200-foot intervals. The signs shall
be of a size no less than 8 inches by 14 inches and shall contain black or red
letters on a white background. The signs may, but are not required to, contain
a reference to the Dare County Code or the amount of fine or violation.
(Prior Code, § 70.02) (Ord. passed 1-2-1990) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no penalty is
otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions set forth in
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating
§ 70.02 shall be responsible for an infraction and shall be required to pay a
penalty of $50.
(Ord. passed 1-2-1990)
(Prior Code, § 70.99)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
93.   DOCK AREA REGULATIONS
      
94.   ENHANCED 911 SERVICE
      
95.   LIBRARIES
      
96.   LITTERING
      
97.   NOISE CONTROL
      
98.   NUISANCES
      
99.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
100.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
101.   BEACH FIRES IN DUCK FIRE DISTRICT
      
102.   FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNICS
      
103.   ABANDONED VESSELS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Abandonment of motor vehicles prohibited
   
90.03   Removal of abandoned or junked vehicles by county
   
90.04   Notice of removal; redemption by owner
   
90.05   Fee for removal
   
90.06   Probable cause hearing
   
90.07   Disposal of abandoned/junked motor vehicles
   
90.08   Exceptions
   
90.09   Approval of notice forms
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that:
      (1)   Is left on public grounds or county- owned property in violation of
a law or ordinance prohibiting parking;
      (2)   Is left for longer than 24 hours on property owned or operated by
the county;
      (3)   Is left for longer than 2 hours on private property without the
consent of the owner, occupant or lessee of the property;
      (4)   Is left for longer than 7 days on public grounds; or
      (5)   Is left on private property within 200 feet of any state-maintained
street or highway without displaying a current license plate and is not used on
a regular basis for business or personal use.
   DULY AUTHORIZED COUNTY OFFICIAL OR EMPLOYEE. The Building Inspector,
Assistant Building Inspector, County Manager, Sheriff, Deputy Sheriff and such
other persons as may be authorized from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE. An abandoned motor vehicle that also:
      (1)   Is partially dismantled or wrecked;
      (2)   Cannot be self-propelled or moved in the manner in which it
originally was intended to move;
      (3)   Is more than 5 years old and appears to be worth less than $100; or
      (4)   Does not display a current license plate.
(Prior Code, § 90.01) (Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-1984)
§ 90.02 ABANDONMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   The abandonment of a motor vehicle on public grounds, private property or
county-owned property within the county but outside the geographic limits of
any municipality is expressly prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 90.02) (Ord. passed 8-4-1975) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 90.03 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES BY COUNTY.
   (A)   The county may remove to a storage garage or area an abandoned or
junked motor vehicle found to be in violation of an ordinance adopted pursuant
to this section. However, except for vehicles defined in division (5) of the
definition of ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE in
§ 90.01, a vehicle may not be removed from private property, without the
written request of the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises, unless the
Board of Commissioners or a duly authorized county official or employee has
declared the vehicle to be a health or safety hazard.
   (B)   Appropriate county officers and employees have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
provisions of this chapter or any other applicable ordinance of the county
making jurisdiction at any reasonable hour in order to determine if any
vehicles are health or safety hazards.
   (C)   The county may require a person requesting the removal from private
property of an abandoned or junked motor vehicle to indemnify the county
against any loss, expense or liability incurred because of the vehicle's
removal, storage or sale.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) (Ord. passed 8-4-1975; Am. Ord. passed 10-1-1984)
§ 90.04 NOTICE OF REMOVAL; REDEMPTION BY OWNER.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a vehicle with a valid registration plate or
registration is towed as provided in G.S. § 20-219.10, the authorizing person
shall immediately notify the last known registered owner of the vehicle of the
following:
         (a)   A description of the vehicle;
         (b)   The place where the vehicle is stored;
         (c)   The violation with which the owner is charged, if any;
         (d)   The procedure the owner must follow to have the vehicle returned
to him or her; and
         (e)   The procedure the owner must follow to request a probable cause
hearing on the towing.
      (2)   If the vehicle has a North Carolina registration plate or
registration, notice shall be given to the owner within 24 hours; if the
vehicle is not registered in the state, notice shall be given to the owner
within 72 hours. This notice shall, if feasible, be given by telephone. Whether
or not the owner is reached by telephone, notice shall be mailed to his or her
last known address unless he or she or his or her agent waives this notice in
writing.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle with neither a valid registration plate nor
registration is towed as provided in G.S. § 20-219.10, the authorizing person
shall make reasonable efforts, including checking the vehicle identification
number, to determine the last known registered owner of the vehicle and to
notify him or her of the information listed in division (A). Unless the owner
has otherwise been given notice, it is presumed that the authorizing person has
not made reasonable efforts, as required under this section, unless notice that
the vehicle would be towed was posted on the windshield or some other
conspicuous place at least 7 days before the towing actually occurred; except,
no pretowing notice need be given if the vehicle impeded the flow of traffic or
otherwise jeopardized the public welfare so that immediate towing was
necessary.
(G.S. § 20-219.11) (Prior Code, § 90.04) (Ord. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 90.05 FEE FOR REMOVAL.
   A reasonable fee commensurate with the cost of removal may be charged and
levied against a property owner from whose property is removed a junked vehicle
which has been declared a health hazard, such fee not to exceed $250.
(Prior Code, § 90.05) (Ord. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 90.06 PROBABLE CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   The owner or any other person entitled to claim possession of the
vehicle may request in writing a hearing to determine if probable cause existed
for the towing. The request shall be filed with the County Magistrate. If there
is more than 1 magistrate’s office, the request may be filed with the
magistrate in the warrant-issuing office in the county seat or in any other
office designated to receive requests by the Chief District Court Judge. The
Magistrate shall set the hearing within 72 hours of his or her receiving the
request. The owner, the person who requested the hearing if someone other than
the owner, the tower and the person who authorized the towing shall be notified
of the time and place of the hearing.
   (B)   The owner, the tower, the person who authorized the towing and any
other interested parties may present evidence at the hearing. The person
authorizing the towing and the tower may submit an affidavit in lieu of
appearing personally, but the affidavit does not preclude that person from also
testifying.
   (C)   The only issue at this hearing is whether or not probable cause
existed for the towing. If the Magistrate finds that probable cause did exist,
the tower’s lien continues. If the Magistrate finds that probable cause did not
exist, the tower’s lien is extinguished.
   (D)   Any aggrieved party may appeal the Magistrate's decision to district
court.
(G.S. § 20-219.11 (c)-(f)) (Prior Code, § 90.06)
§ 90.07 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED/JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   After holding an abandoned motor vehicle for 30 days after the day the
vehicle is removed, or after holding a junked motor vehicle for 15 days, the
county may sell or dispose of it as provided in this section.
      (1)   Enforcement by sale.
         (a)   If the charges for which the lien is claimed under this section
remain unpaid or unsatisfied for 30 days following the maturity of the
obligation to pay any such charges, or, in the case of towing and storage
charges on a motor vehicle, 10 days following the maturity of the obligation to
pay any such charges, the lienor may enforce the lien by public or private sale
as provided in this section. The lienor may bring an action on the debt in any
court of competent jurisdiction at any time following maturity of the
obligation. Failure of the lienor to bring the action within a 180-day period
following the commencement of storage shall constitute a waiver of any right to
collect storage charges which accrue after the period. Provided, that when
property is placed in storage pursuant to an express contract of storage, the
lien shall continue and the lienor may bring an action to collect storage
charges and enforce his or her lien at any time within 120 days following
default on the obligation to pay storage charges.
         (b)   The owner or person with whom the lienor dealt may at any time
following the maturity of the obligation bring an action in any court of
competent jurisdiction as by law provided. If in any such action the owner or
other party requests immediate possession of the property and pays the amount
of the lien asserted into the Clerk of the Court in which the action is
pending, the Clerk shall issue an order to the lienor to relinquish possession
of the property to the owner or other party. The request for immediate
possession may be made in the complaint, which shall also set forth the amount
of the asserted lien and the portion thereof which is not in dispute, if any.
If within 3 days after service of the summons and complaint, as the number of
days is computed in G.S. 1A-1, Rule 6, the lienor does not file a contrary
statement of the amount of the lien at the time of the filing of the complaint,
the amount set forth in the complaint shall be deemed to be the amount of the
asserted lien. The Clerk may at any time disburse to the lienor that portion of
the cash bond, which the plaintiff says in his or her complaint is not in
dispute, upon application of the lienor. The magistrate or judge shall direct
appropriate disbursement of the disputed or undisbursed portion of the bond in
the judgment of the court. In the event an action by the owner pursuant to this
section is heard in district or superior court, the substantially prevailing
party in such court may be awarded a reasonable attorney’s fee in the
discretion of the judge.
      (2)   Notice and hearings.
         (a)   If the property upon which the lien is claimed is a motor
vehicle that is required to be registered, the lienor following the expiration
of the relevant time period provided by subdivision (1) shall give notice to
the Division of Motor Vehicles that a lien is asserted and sale is proposed and
shall remit to the Division a fee of $14. The Division of Motor Vehicles shall
issue notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, or certified mail
with electronic tracking to the person having legal title to the property, if
reasonably ascertainable, to the person with whom the lienor dealt if
different, and to each secured party and other person claiming an interest in
the property who is actually known to the Division or who can be reasonably
ascertained. The notice shall state that a lien has been asserted against
specific property and shall identify the lienor, the date that the lien arose,
the general nature of the services performed and materials used or sold for
which the lien is asserted, the amount of the lien, and that the lienor intends
to sell the property in satisfaction of the lien. The notice shall inform the
recipient that the recipient has the right to a judicial hearing at which time
a determination will be made as to the validity of the lien prior to a sale
taking place. The notice shall further state that the recipient has a period of
10 days from the date of receipt in which to notify the Division by certified
mail, return receipt requested, or certified mail with electronic tracking that
a hearing is desired and that if the recipient wishes to contest the sale of
his property pursuant to such lien, the recipient should notify the Division
that a hearing is desired. The notice shall state the required information in
simplified terms and shall contain a form whereby the recipient may notify the
Division that a hearing is desired by the return of such form to the Division.
The Division shall notify the lienor whether such notice is timely received by
the Division. In lieu of the notice and payment of the fee by the lienor to the
Division and the notices issued by the Division described above, the lienor may
issue notice on a form approved by the Division pursuant to the notice
requirements above by certified mail, return receipt requested, or certified
mail with electronic tracking to the person having legal title to the property,
which is deemed to have the same effect as if the notice was sent by the
Division. If notice is issued by the lienor, the recipient shall return the
form requesting a hearing to the lienor, and not the Division, within 10 days
from the date the recipient receives the notice if a judicial hearing is
requested. If the certified mail notice has been returned as undeliverable and
the notice of a right to a judicial hearing has been given to the owner of the
motor vehicle in accordance with G.S. § 20-28.4, no further notice is required.
Failure of the recipient to notify the Division or lienor, as specified in the
notice, within 10 days of the receipt of such notice that a hearing is desired
shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing prior to the sale of the
property against which the lien is asserted, and the lienor may proceed to
enforce the lien by public or private sale as provided in this section and the
Division shall transfer title to the property pursuant to such sale. If the
Division or lienor, as specified in the notice, is notified within the 10-day
period provided above that a hearing is desired prior to sale, the lien may be
enforced by sale as provided in this section and the Division will transfer
title only pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (b)   1.   If the certified mail notice has been returned as
undeliverable, or if the name of the person having legal title to the vehicle
cannot reasonably be ascertained and the fair market value of the vehicle is
less than $800, the lienor may institute a special proceeding in the county
where the vehicle is being held, for authorization to sell that vehicle. Market
value shall be determined by the schedule of values adopted by the Commissioner
under G.S. § 105-187.3.
            2.   In such a proceeding a lienor may not include more than 10
vehicles, but the proceeds of the sale of each shall be subject only to valid
claims against that vehicle, and any excess proceeds of the sale shall be paid
immediately to the Treasurer for disposition pursuant to G.S. Ch. 116B.
         (c)    The application to the Clerk in such a special proceeding shall
contain the notice of sale information set out in subdivision (6) hereof. If
the application is in proper form the Clerk shall enter an order authorizing
the sale on a date not less than 14 days therefrom, and the lienor shall cause
the application and order to be sent immediately by first-class mail pursuant
to G.S. § 1A-1, Rule 5, to each person to whom notice was mailed pursuant to
this division. Following the authorized sale the lienor shall file with the
Clerk a report in the form of an affidavit, stating that the lienor has
complied with the public or private sale provisions of G.S. § 44A-4, the name,
address, and bid of the high bidder or person buying at a private sale, and a
statement of the disposition of the sale proceeds. The Clerk then shall enter
an order directing the Division to transfer title accordingly.
         (d)   If prior to the sale the owner or legal possessor contests the
sale or lien in a writing filed with the Clerk, the proceeding shall be handled
in accordance with G.S. § 1-301.2.
         (e)   If the property upon which the lien is claimed is other than a
motor vehicle required to be registered, the lienor following the expiration of
the 30-day period provided by subdivision (1) shall issue notice to the person
having legal title to the property, if reasonably ascertainable, and to the
person with whom the lienor dealt if different by certified mail, return
receipt requested, or certified mail with electronic tracking. The notice shall
state that a lien has been asserted against specific property and shall
identify the lienor, the date that the lien arose, the general nature of the
services performed and materials used or sold for which the lien is asserted,
the amount of the lien, and that the lienor intends to sell the property in
satisfaction of the lien. The notice shall inform the recipient that the
recipient has the right to a judicial hearing at which time a determination
will be made as to the validity of the lien prior to a sale taking place. The
notice shall further state that the recipient has a period of 10 days from the
date of receipt in which to notify the lienor by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or certified mail with electronic tracking that a hearing is desired
and that if the recipient wishes to contest the sale of his or her property
pursuant to such lien, the recipient should notify the lienor that a hearing is
desired. The notice shall state the required information in simplified terms
and shall contain a form whereby the recipient may notify the lienor that a
hearing is desired by the return of the form to the lienor. Failure of the
recipient to notify the lienor within 10 days of the receipt of such notice
that a hearing is desired shall be deemed a waiver of the right to a hearing
prior to sale of the property against which the lien is asserted and the lienor
may proceed to enforce the lien by public or private sale as provided in this
section. If the lienor is notified within the 10-day period provided above that
a hearing is desired prior to sale, the lien may be enforced by sale as
provided in this section only pursuant to the order of a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (3)   Private sale. Sale by private sale may be made in any manner that
is commercially reasonable. If the property upon which the lien is claimed is a
motor vehicle, the sale may not be made until notice is given to the
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles pursuant to G.S. § 20-114(c). Not less than 30
days prior to the date of the proposed private sale, the lienor shall cause
notice to be mailed, as provided in division (A)(6) hereof, to the person
having legal title to the property, if reasonably ascertainable, to the person
with whom the lienor dealt if different, and to each secured party or other
person claiming an interest in the property who is actually known to the lienor
or can be reasonably ascertained. Notices provided pursuant to division (A)(2)
hereof shall be sufficient for these purposes if the notices contain the
information required by division (A)(6) hereof. The lienor shall not purchase,
directly or indirectly, the property at private sale and such a sale to the
lienor shall be voidable.
      (4)   Request for public sale. If an owner, the person with whom the
lienor dealt, any secured party, or other person claiming an interest in the
property notifies the lienor prior to the date upon or after which the sale by
private sale is proposed to be made, that public sale is requested, sale by
private sale shall not be made. After request for public sale is received,
notice of public sale must be given as if no notice of sale by private sale had
been given.
      (5)   Public sale.
         (a)   Not less than 20 days prior to sale by public sale the lienor:
            1.   Shall notify the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles as provided in
G.S. § 20-114(c) if the property upon which the lien is claimed is a motor
vehicle; and
            2.   Shall cause notice to be mailed to the person having legal
title to the property if reasonably ascertainable, to the person with whom the
lienor dealt if different, and to each secured party or other person claiming
an interest in the property who is actually known to the lienor or can be
reasonably ascertained, provided that notices provided pursuant to division (A)
(2) hereof shall be sufficient for these purposes if the notices contain the
information required by division (A)(6) hereof; and
            3.   Shall advertise the sale by posting a copy of the notice of
sale at the courthouse door in the county where the sale is to be held; and
shall publish notice of sale once a week for 2 consecutive weeks in a newspaper
of general circulation in the same county, the date of the last publication
being not less than 5 days prior to the sale. The notice of sale need not be
published if the vehicle has a market value of less $3,500, as determined by
the schedule of values adopted by the Commissioner under G.S. § 105-187.3.
         (b)   A public sale must be held on a day other than Sunday and
between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m.:
            1.   In any county where any part of the contract giving rise to
the lien was performed;
            2.   In the county where the obligation secured by the lien was
contracted for; or
         (c)   A lienor may purchase at public sale.
      (6)   Notice of sale. The notice of sale shall include:
         (a)   The name and address of the lienor;
         (b)   The name of the person having legal title to the property if
such person can be reasonably ascertained and the name of the person with whom
the lienor dealt;
         (c)   A description of the property;
         (d)   The amount due for which the lien is claimed;
         (e)   The place of the sale; and
         (f)   If a private sale the date upon or after which the sale is
proposed to be made, of if a public sale the date and hour when the sale is to
be held.
      (7)   Damages for noncompliance. If the lienor fails to comply
substantially with any of the provisions of this section, the lienor shall be
liable to the person having legal title to the property or any other party
injured by the noncompliance in the sum of $100, together with a reasonable
attorney’s fee as awarded by the court. Damages provided by this section shall
be in addition to actual damages to which any party is otherwise entitled.
(G.S. § 44A-4)
   (B)   The proceeds of the sale shall be applied as follows:
      (1)   Payment of reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the
sale; (Expenses of sale include, but are not limited to reasonable storage and
boarding expenses after giving notice of sale.)
      (2)   Payment of the obligation secured by the lien; and
      (3)   Any surplus shall be paid to the person entitled thereto; but when
the person cannot be found, the surplus shall be paid to the Clerk of Superior
Court of the county in which the sale took place, to be held by the Clerk for
the person entitled thereto.
(G.S. § 44A-5)
   (C)   A purchaser for value at a properly conducted sale, and a purchaser
for value without constructive notice of a defect in the sale, whether or not
the purchaser is the lienor or an agent of the lienor, acquires title to the
property free of any interests over which the lienor was entitled to priority.
(G.S. § 44A-6)
(Prior Code, § 90.07)
§ 90.08 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not apply to any vehicle in an enclosed building, to any
vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise being operated in a lawful
place and manner, if the vehicle is necessary to the operation of the
enterprise, or to any vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the county.
(Prior Code, § 90.08) (Ord. passed 8-4-1975)
§ 90.09 APPROVAL OF NOTICE FORMS.
   The form of notices required by this chapter shall be as approved by the
County Manager from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.09) (Ord. passed 8-4-1975)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.001   Definitions
   
91.002   Cruelty to animals
   
91.003   Vicious animals
   
91.004   Hunting of wildlife; restrictions
   
91.005   Hunting black bears
   
91.006   Trapping prohibited at certain times
   
91.007   Prohibition of feeding black bears from a public highway right-of-way
   
91.008   Owner responsible for care and behavior of his or her animals
   
91.009   Exemptions
   
91.010   Privatization of operation of animal shelter; contract
   
91.011   Manner of keeping and treating animals generally
Dogs
   
91.025   Collar and tags required
   
91.026   Stray dogs
   
91.027   Behaviors of dogs constituting public nuisances
   
91.028   Barking dogs
   
91.029   Notice of injuries to dogs
   
91.030   Dangerous or potentially dangerous dog
   
91.031   Running at large prohibited within Colington Harbour and Martin’s
Point
   
91.032   Prohibition of dogs on county owned recreational areas
   
91.033   General care and tethering of dogs
Impoundment of Dogs or Cats
   
91.050   Authority to impound
   
91.051   Notification of owner
   
91.052   Sale or destruction of impounded dogs or cats
   
91.053   Animals suspected of having rabies
   
91.054   Animals officially surrendered by owners
   
91.055   Badly wounded or diseased dogs or cats
   
91.056   Redemption; adoption
Rabies Vaccination and Control
   
91.065   Inoculation required
   
91.066   Report and quarantine of biting dogs
   
91.067   Refusal of owner to permit investigation; redemption of dogs found not
to have rabies
   
91.068   Procedure when rabies diagnosed
   
91.069   Emergency area-wide quarantine
   
91.070   Animals bitten by known rabid animal
   
91.071   Extension of quarantine
   
91.072   Killing; releasing or removing animals from county prohibited
   
91.073   Surrender of carcasses of dead animals exposed to rabies
   
91.074   Failure or refusal to surrender animals when demanded by Health
Director
Enforcement
   
91.085   Animal Control Department
   
91.086   Interference with enforcement officials prohibited
Feral Cats
   
91.095   Purpose
   
91.096   Definitions
   
91.097   Management of feral cat colonies
   
91.098   Caregiver responsibilities and requirements
   
91.099   Colony location and care requirements
   
91.100   Withdrawal of caregiver
   
91.101   Disposition of colony cats
   
91.102   Enforcement
   
91.103   Grace period
   
91.104   Public responsibility
   
91.105   Responsibilities of owners of domesticated cats
   
91.106   Violation misdemeanor and subject to civil penalty
Cross-reference:
   An act to allow Dare County to establish a special leash law district, see
Special Acts,
Article XXXI
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCES. Those acts described in §§
91.002,
91.003,
91.008,
91.025 through
91.029.
   ADEQUATE FOOD. The provision at suitable intervals, of a quantity of
suitable foodstuff suitable for the species and age, sufficient to maintain the
animal’s health and well-being.
   ADEQUATE SHELTER. A structure which provides for an animal’s protection from
inclement weather or sun, appropriate for that animal.
   ADEQUATE WATER. Access to a supply of water that is clean, fresh, and
visibly free of excessive debris and organic material, provided in a sanitary
manner at suitable intervals for the species.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature specifically including but not limited
to dogs, cats, farm animals, birds, fish, livestock, and reptiles.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person appointed to exercise the powers and
responsibilities prescribed in this chapter and otherwise allowed by statute to
a county dog warden, who shall have the powers of a county dog warden in
addition to the other powers set out in this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the county for the purpose of
impounding and caring for cats and dogs found running at-large or otherwise
subject to impounding in accordance with this chapter.
   AT-LARGE. Any animal shall be deemed to be AT-LARGE when it is off the
property of its owner and not under the control of a competent person.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that:
      (1)   Has killed or inflicted serious injury on a person;
      (2)   Is determined by the Health Director or the Dangerous Animal Appeal
Board to be potentially dangerous as defined herein; or
      (3)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose
of animal fighting, or any animal trained for animal fighting.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL APPEAL BOARD. The Board appointed as needed by the
Chairperson of the Dare County Board of Health to hear appeals from the
determination by the Health Director that an animal is a dangerous animal or a
potentially dangerous animal and comprised of at least 3 members of the Board
of Health.
   DARE COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL. The person or entity under contract or otherwise
designated by the Dare County Board of Commissioners to exercise the authority,
powers and responsibilities given for the control of animals and their welfare
under the provisions of Chapter 91 of the Dare County Code of Ordinances and
under the provisions of the North Carolina General Statutes.
   EXPOSED TO RABIES. An animal has been EXPOSED TO RABIES if it has been
bitten by or been expose to any animal known or suspected to have been infected
with rabies.
   IDENTIFICATION TAG. The metallic or other tag or identification device
issued by the Animal Control Department for attachment to the collar or harness
of a dog.
   KENNEL, DEALER, BREEDER or PET SHOP.  Any person engaged in buying, selling,
breeding or boarding pet animals.
   NEUTERED MALE. Any male animal which has been operated upon to prevent
reproduction.
   OWNER. Any person or legal entity that has a possessory property right in an
animal or that keeps, has charge of, shelters, harbors, takes care of or has
custody of an animal.
   OWNER'S REAL PROPERTY. Any real property owned or leased by the owner of the
animal, but does not include any public right-of-way or a common area of a
condominium, apartment complex or townhouse development.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that the Health Director or the
Dangerous Animal Appeal Board determines to have:
      (1)   Inflicted a serious injury upon a person;
      (2)   Killed or inflicted serious injury upon a domestic animal when not
on the owner’s real property; or
      (3)   Approached a person when not on the owner’s property in a vicious
or terrorizing manner in an apparent attitude of attack.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person having custody of an animal, or who keeps or
harbors an animal, feeds or shelters, or who permits an animal to remain on or
about any premises occupied or controlled by such person.
   RESTRAINT. An animal is under RESTRAINT if it is controlled by means of a
chain, leash or other like device, or is sufficiently near the owner or handler
to be under his or her direct control and is obedient to that person’s
commands, or is on or within a vehicle being driven or parked or is within a
secured enclosure.
   SERIOUS INJURY. Any physical injury that results in lacerations, punctures,
broken bones or other injuries for which medical treatment is required.
   SPAYED FEMALE. Any female animal which has been operated upon to prevent
conception.
   STRAY DOG. Any dog within the county wandering at-large or lost or any dog
within the county whose owner fails to pay for and procure a dog tax and fails
to have the dog vaccinated against rabies by a veterinarian.
   TETHER. A means by which an animal is fastened so that it can range only
within a set radius.
   TETHERING. To restrain a dog outdoors by means of a rope, chain, wire or
other type line for holding a dog, one end of which is fastened to the dog and
the end of which is connected to a stationary object or to a cable or trolley
system. This does not include walking a dog with a handheld leash.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that has made an unprovoked attack on a human by
biting or in any manner causing abrasions or cuts of the skin; or one which
habitually or repeatedly attacks farm stock and other pets.
(Prior Code, § 91.01) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978; Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2009;
amended 5-15-2017)
§ 91.002 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to molest, torture, deprive of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beat, needlessly mutilate or kill, wound, injure, poison,
abandon or subject to conditions detrimental to its health or general welfare
any animal, or to cause or procure such action. The words TORTURE, TORMENT or
CRUELTY shall be held to include any act, omission or neglect whereby
unjustifiable physical pain, suffering or death is caused or permitted, but
such terms shall not be construed to prohibit lawful shooting of birds, deer or
other game for human food, or to prohibit the Animal Control Department or
their agents or veterinarians from destroying dangerous, unwanted or injured
animals in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.003 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to keep any vicious, fierce or dangerous
animal within the county, unless it is confined within a secure building or
enclosure or unless it is securely muzzled and under restraint by a competent
person who, by means of a leash, chain or rope, has such animal firmly under
control at all times.
(Prior Code, § 91.03) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
  § 91.004 HUNTING OF WILDLIFE; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt wildfowl within the
exclusive geographic area licensed by the County Game and Wildlife Commission
to another person, unless the licensee is present in the blind or near vicinity
and has authorized the use by a nonlicensee or, if not present in the near
vicinity, has authorized in writing the use by the nonlicensee.
   (B)   In the case of a club or corporate licensee, the person shall have
written authorization by the licensed entity to use the area on his or her
person or within the licensed area.
   (C)   All open water hunting or migratory wildfowl shall be from a duly
licensed blind.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to hunt wildfowl from a floating blind or other
movable device on water, unless the same has been licensed by the county’s Game
and Wildlife Commission.
   (E)   For the purposes of this section, the following definitions will
apply:
      BLIND. A permanent or semi-permanent structure or device on land or in or
over water for the purpose of concealing a hunter of migratory wildfowl.
      FLOAT BLIND. A movable object or structure on water for the purpose of
concealing a hunter of migratory wildfowl.
      OPEN WATER. All sounds and bays.
   (F)   It is unlawful to hunt or fish on the land of another without having
written permission on one’s person, signed and dated for the current hunting or
fishing season, of the landowner or lessee, or the landowner’s or lessee’s
designee. The written permission shall not be valid for more than one year and
may be valid for a shorter period stated in the permission. The written
permission shall be displayed upon request of any law enforcement officer of
the Wildlife Resources Commission, by sheriffs and deputy sheriffs, and by
other law enforcement officers with general subject matter jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 91.04) (Ord. passed 10-3-1977; Am. Ord. passed 9-6-2022)
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.005 HUNTING BLACK BEARS.
   The seasons for hunting black bears in Tyrell and Washinton Counties in 1988
and succeeding years, and in Dare County in 1990 and succeeding years, shall be
established as authorized by G.S. Ch. 113; provided, however, there shall be no
season for the year for hunting black bears in a county if the Board of
Commissioners of that county adopts an ordinance stating the county’s objection
to the season that would otherwise be established for that year as authorized
by G.S. Ch. 113.
(Sess. Laws 1989, ch. 837, § 2, being G.S. § 113-133.1(e)) (Prior Code, §
91.041)
§ 91.006 TRAPPING PROHIBITED AT CERTAIN TIMES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to take by trapping any game or fur-bearing animal
except as provided by the rules and regulations of the North Carolina Wildlife
Resources Commission. Notwithstanding the forgoing, it shall be unlawful to
take by trapping any game or fur-bearing animal by use of the 330 Conibear
steel trap or any similar trap until after January 2 of each year.
   (B)   Violation of this act is a misdemeanor punishable for a first
conviction by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than $50 or imprisonment not
to exceed 30 days, and punishable for a second or subsequent conviction within
three years by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200, imprisonment not
to exceed 90 days, or both.
   (C)   This act is enforceable by law enforcement officers of the Wildlife
Resources Commission, by deputy sheriffs, and by other peace officers with
general subject matter jurisdiction.
(Sess. Laws 1985, ch. 178., §§ 1–3) (Prior Code, §91.042) (Am. Ord. passed 9-
15-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.007 PROHIBITION OF FEEDING BLACK BEARS FROM A PUBLIC HIGHWAY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to feed black bears from a public highway right-of-way.
      (1)   Division (A) applies only to the direct feeding or broadcasting of
food or other attractants by private individuals for the purpose of feeding,
attracting or baiting black bears.
      (2)   Exempted from this section are state and local government programs
(and programs sponsored by the state or local governments) that have the
purpose of beautifying public roadsides or managing public highway rights-of-
way to provide or improve wildlife habitat.
      (3)   It is not the purpose of this section to prohibit any person from
feeding black bears on their private property, nor does this section prohibit
persons from using natural or artificial bait while fishing in public highway
canals and waterways.
   (B)   The term HIGHWAY  shall be as defined by G.S. § 20-4.01(13).
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in G.S. §
14-4(a) as a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 91.043) (Ord. passed 12-18-2000)
§ 91.008 OWNER RESPONSIBLE FOR CARE AND BEHAVIOR OF HIS OR HER ANIMALS.
   The owner is responsible for the care, actions and behavior of his or her
animals.
(Prior Code, § 91.05) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.009 EXEMPTIONS.
   Hospitals, clinics and other premises operated by licensed veterinarians for
the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this
chapter, except for the sections on cruel treatment and manner of keeping
animals generally.
(Prior Code, § 91.06) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.010 PRIVITIZATION OF OPERATION OF ANIMAL SHELTER; CONTRACT.
   There is hereby granted approval for the county to enter into a contract
with an independent contractor to provide services for animals, operate and
maintain an animal control shelter and adoption center and such other services
in keeping with the regulations of this chapter. The contract shall be kept on
file with the county for public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) (Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 2-15-1993)
§ 91.011 MANNER OF KEEPING AND TREATING ANIMALS GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep animals under unsanitary or
inhumane conditions; to fail to provide proper food and water daily, shelter
from the weather, reasonably clean quarters, and proper medical attention for
sick, diseased or injured animals, as well as adequate inoculation against
disease, according to the species of the animal kept.
(Adopted 5-15-2017)
DOGS
§ 91.025 COLLAR AND TAGS REQUIRED.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide his or her
dog with a collar or harness to which current vaccination and identification
tags are securely attached. A collar or harness with attached tags must be worn
at all times except when the dog is confined to an enclosure on the owner’s
premises or during the time animals are performing at shows, obedience trials,
tracking tests, field trials, training schools or other events sanctioned and
supervised by a recognized organization.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to provide his or her
dog with an identification tag or fail to take the action as is necessary to
insure that such identification tag is worn by the dog at all times, except as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to fail to comply with state
laws relating to the control of rabies, and it shall be unlawful for any dog
owner to fail to provide any dog he or she owns with a suitable collar or
harness for the wearing of the rabies tag to be issued upon compliance with
state law or fail to take the action as is necessary to see that the tag is
worn by the dog at all times, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog to wear a
vaccination tag or identification tag issued for another dog.
(Prior Code, § 91.15) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.026 STRAY DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the county knowingly and
intentionally to harbor, feed or keep in possession by confinement or otherwise
any dog which does not belong to him or her, unless he or she has, within 24
hours from the time the dog came into his or her possession, notified the
animal shelter. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to surrender any
such stray dog to an authorized representative of the animal shelter upon
demand of the representative.
(Prior Code, § 91.16) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.027 BEHAVIORS OF DOGS CONSTITUTING PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to allow his or her dog to habitually
or repeatedly chase, snap at, attack or bark at pedestrians, bicyclists or
vehicles, turn over garbage pails, damage gardens, flowers or vegetables or
conduct itself so as to be a public nuisance, or to permit a female dog to run
at-large during the erotic stage of copulation.
(Prior Code, § 91.17) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.028 BARKING DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to keep or have within a densely
populated area a dog that habitually or repeatedly barks in such a manner or to
such extent that it is a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 91.18) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.029 NOTICE OF INJURIES TO DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person injuring a dog, by running over or into
or coming into contact with the same with any automobile, motorcycle, bicycle
or other vehicle, to fail to notify immediately the owner of the dog, the
animal shelter or the Police Department if in a municipality or the Sheriff’s
Department if in the county.
(Prior Code, § 91.19) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.030 DANGEROUS OR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG.
   (A)   The Dare County Health Director is the person designated to determine
when a dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous under the provisions of G.S. §
67-4.1 and to determine when a dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous as
defined herein. The Chairperson of the Dare County Board of Health shall
designate as needed, 3 members of the Dare County Board of Health to serve as
the Dare County Dangerous Dogs Appeals Board to hear appeals from the Health
Director’s determination that a dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a report that a dog is dangerous or potentially
dangerous:
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall promptly investigate the report
and upon completion of the investigation present the findings of such
investigation to the Health Director. Any dog which in the opinion of the
animal control or law enforcement officer(s) who respond and which they
reasonably believe constitutes a present threat to persons or other animals may
be taken into their custody and impounded.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the investigative report, the Health Director shall
determine whether there is probable cause to believe that the dog which is the
subject of the report is dangerous or potentially dangerous.
      (3)   Upon determining that a dog is a dangerous dog or a potentially
dangerous dog, the Health Director shall:
         (a)   Notify the owner in writing, giving the reasons for the
determination, before the dog may be considered dangerous or potentially
dangerous;
         (b)   Notify Dare County Animal Control of the Health Director’s
determination and if not already impounded as otherwise provided, direct that
the dog be seized and impounded until final disposition has occurred as
provided herein;
         (c)   Give the owner notice that the owner may appeal the
determination by filing written objections with the Dare County Dangerous Dogs
Appeals Board within 3 days and provide the address at which to deliver such
notice of the appeal;
         (d)   Direct the owner to immediately deliver the dog to the Dare
County Animal Shelter if not previously seized by Dare County Animal Control,
to be impounded until the dog’s disposition is determined as provided herein;
and
         (e)   If after reasonable efforts the owner or the whereabouts of the
owner cannot be determined, the Health Director and Dare County Animal Control
shall proceed as provided herein as if such notice was properly given.
   (C)   An animal control officer is authorized to serve a copy of the Health
Director’s notice upon the owner of the dog and to seize and impound the dog
upon the Health Director’s determination that the dog is dangerous or
potentially dangerous or upon a reasonable belief that the dog is a present
threat to persons or other animals.
   (D)   Within 3 days of receipt of notice of the Health Director’s
determination that a dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous, the owner may
appeal the determination to the Dare County Dangerous Dogs Appeals Board. In
the event written notice of appeal is not received within the times prescribed
herein, the determination of the Health Director shall be final. Upon a timely
appeal, the Dare County Dangerous Dogs Appeals Board shall convene within 10
days and conduct a hearing. The Dangerous Dogs Appeals Board may approve,
revoke or revise the level of danger as determined by the Health Director. The
hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the procedures adopted by the Dare
County Dangerous Dogs Appeals Board. The final decision of the Dare County
Dangerous Dogs Appeals Board may be appealed to the superior court by filing
notice of appeal and a petition for review within 10 days of the final decision
of the appellate Board and shall be heard de novo before a superior court judge
sitting in Dare County. In the event that the notice of appeal and petition for
review are not timely filed, the decision of the Dare County Dangerous Dogs
Appeals Board shall be final.
   (E)   Potentially dangerous dog. If a dog is declared potentially dangerous
by the Health Director, the Health Director may impose regulations including
but not limited to the following:
      (1)   The dog shall be kept, secured and restrained while on the owner’s
property in the following ways:
         (a)   When the dog is confined indoors, the place where the dog is
confined must have doors, windows and other exits securely fastened shut and
the dog must be under the supervision and control of a responsible adult
capable of such supervision and control;
         (b)   When the dog is confined outdoors, it must be kept in a locked
enclosure which has secure sides, and is constructed out of materials and in a
manner which will preclude escape by the dog and prevent entry by small
children;
         (c)   While not confined indoors or outdoors as described above, the
dog must be securely leashed with a leash no longer than four (4) feet in
length and under the control of a responsible adult capable of such control and
muzzled to prevent such dog from biting persons or other animals.
         (d)   A sign shall be posted on the property which should read:
BEWARE OF DOG
DOG MAY BITE
STAY AWAY
         (e)   In the event that the Health Director determines, after having
made a study of the case, that the owner of the dog is either unwilling or
unable to comply with any of the restrictions that may be set forth, then upon
declaring the dog potentially dangerous, the Health Director shall have the
authority to instruct the owner to surrender the dog to Animal Control for
adoption, placement in a dog refuge or disposition in accordance with Dare
County Animal Control Policies and Procedures.
      (2)   The dog shall be sterilized within 30 days of the date that the dog
is declared potentially dangerous by the Health Director. In the event that the
potentially dangerous declaration is appealed then the sterilization shall take
place within 30 days of the date that the Dare County Dangerous Dogs Appeals
Board upholds the potentially dangerous dog determination. In some cases, the
Health Director may also require that the dog stay impounded until such
sterilization is complete.
      (3)   Animal Control shall have the authority to visit the premises of
the dog owner to determine that the regulations imposed by the Health Director
have been fulfilled, prior to returning the dog to the owner.
      (4)   The Health Director may decide that a potentially dangerous dog be
humanely destroyed.
   (F)   Final determination that a dog is dangerous or potentially dangerous.
      (1)   Dangerous dog. Upon final determination that a dog is dangerous,
the dog shall be humanely destroyed and the owner shall be responsible for all
costs and expenses of impoundment and destruction as set forth on the schedule
of fees adopted by Dare County Animal Control. Upon a final determination that
a dog is not dangerous, the dog shall be returned to the owner.
      (2)   Potentially dangerous dog. Upon final determination that a dog is
potentially dangerous, the restrictions imposed by the Health Director shall
become final. In the event that the owner of the dog does not comply with the
restrictions imposed by the Health Director within 30 days of the final
determination that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog shall be
surrendered to Dare County Animal Control for adoption or disposition in
accordance with Dare County animal control policies and procedures.
      (3)   Annual inspection by Animal Control. Dare County Animal Control
shall inspect the premises on an annual basis to ensure that the dog owner
remains in compliance with the regulations set by the Health Director.
      (4)   Non-compliance of regulations set by Health Director. If, at any
time, it comes to the attention of the Health Director that the regulations
imposed are not being properly maintained, then the owner shall be instructed
to surrender the dog to Animal Control for adoption, placement in a dog refuge
or disposition in accordance with Dare County Animal Control Policies and
Procedures.
(Ord. passed 2-16-2009; Am. Ord. passed 9-5-2017; Am. Ord. passed 3-7-2022)
§ 91.031 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED WITHIN COLINGTON HARBOUR AND MARTIN’S
POINT.
   (A)   Within the area described herein no owner or keeper of any dog shall
permit the animal to run at large.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AREA OF PROHIBITION. All that land and water shown on the maps or plats
of portions of Colington Harbour Subdivision identified on the list attached to
Ord. passed 11-18-1996 and incorporated by reference herein, and all that land
and water described as common areas in the Martin's Point Declaration of
Covenants and Restrictions, Martin’s Point Homeowners Association, Inc.
Articles of Incorporation, By-laws, Regulations and Construction Guidelines,
including common areas adjacent to and/or abutting private property.
      AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner or keeper and not under
restraint.
      OWNER or KEEPER. Any person or persons or firm, association or
corporation, owning, keeping or harboring a dog.
      PREMISES. Land and buildings.
      UNDER RESTRAINT.
         (a)   Controlled by means of a chain, leash or other like device;
         (b)   On or within a vehicle being driven or parked; or
         (c)   Within a secure enclosure which prevents the dog from injuring
persons or running at large.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in G.S. §
14-4(a) as a Class 3 misdemeanor. The fine shall not exceed $50.
(Prior Code, § 91.21) (Ord. passed 11-18-1996; Am. Ord. passed 1-5-2004)
§ 91.032 PROHIBITION OF DOGS ON COUNTY OWNED RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dog owner to permit his or her dog on the
premises of any county-owned recreational area, regardless of whether the
animal is under restraint or free-roaming. This prohibition does not apply to
dogs trained to provide assistance as aid dogs to disabled persons, and dogs
used for law enforcement purposes.
   (B)   This does not apply to the Kitty Hawk Dog Park. Where a leash law does
apply to all areas as you approach or exit the Kitty Hawk Dog Park (fenced in
dog area), whether walking home to your parked vehicle. All dogs must be on a
6-foot or less leash and under the immediate control of a responsible person.
Proper application and regulations must be completed prior to utilizing the
Kitty Hawk Dog Park (fenced in dog area).
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be punished as provided in G.S. §
14-4(a) as a Class 3 misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 91.22) (Ord. passed 10-18-1999; Am. Ord. passed 7-18-2011)
§ 91.033 GENERAL CARE AND TETHERING OF DOGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to restrain a dog using a chain,
wire or other type of tethering device on vacant or unoccupied property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to restrain a dog using a chain,
wire or other type of tethering device except under the following conditions:
      (1)   No person shall tether, fasten, chain, tie or restrain a dog, or
cause such restraining of a dog, to a tree, fence, post, dog house, or other
stationary object for more than a total of 3 hours in a 24-hour period.
      (2)   During periods of tethering, any tethering device used shall be at
least 10 feet in length and attached in such manner as to prevent strangulation
or other injury to the dog and entanglement with objects. If a cable trolley
system is used for tethering, the length of the cable along with the tethering
device must be at least 10 feet in length and the dog must be able to move 10
feet away from the cable perpendicularly and be attached to the dog in such a
manner to prevent strangulation or other injury to the dog and entanglement
with objects.
      (3)   The tether shall be connected to the dog by a body harness made of
nylon or leather, not less than 1 inch in width and where the weight of the
tethering device and the collar cannot exceed 10% of the dog’s body weight.
      (4)   No person shall tether a dog with a chain or wire or other device,
or cause such attachment that does not terminate at both ends with a swivel.
      (5)   No person shall tether with a chain or wire or other device to, or
cause such attachment to, a head harness, choke-type collar or pronged collar
to a dog.
      (6)   Tethered dogs shall have access to adequate food, water, and
shelter. This includes shelter from extreme heat or near freezing temperatures,
flooding, tornadoes, thunderstorms, tropical storms and hurricanes.
      (7)   Tethered dogs shall be at least 6 months of age. Puppies shall not
be tethered. Tethered dogs shall not be sick or injured.
      (8)   Tethering and restraint of dogs shall be allowed when actively
engaged in organized and lawful animal activities including but not limited to
hunting, obedience training, field and water training, law enforcement
training, herding or shepherding of livestock, and/or in the pursuit of working
or competing on those legal endeavors.
   (C)   A chain or rope is acceptable in the place of a leash when walking a
dog as long as the dog has an appropriate collar or harness.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of the regulations described in this
section shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   First Offense: If, after conducting an investigation, Animal
Control determines there has been a violation, Animal Control shall explain
Dare County Ordinance, §
91.033 General Care and Tethering of Dogs to dog owner in violation of said
ordinance. Animal Control will issue a warning and the dog must be untethered
immediately. Failure to comply with the order to immediately untether will
constitute a second offense as set forth in division (D) (2) of this section
and the dog will be taken into the custody of Animal Control consistent
therewith.
      (2)   Second Offense: Animal Control will take possession of the animal
for a period of 14 days and the owner in violation of the ordinance may be
charged with a Class 3 misdemeanor and a fine will be imposed up to $500.
During the 14 day period the animal will be housed at the Dare County Animal
Shelter at the owner's expense and accommodation must be made to secure the pet
without the need to tether and demonstrate to Animal Control that such
accommodations have been made. In the event that the animal has not been spayed
or neutered, the fine may be waived in lieu of the owner having the pet spayed
or neutered by a veterinarian before end of the 14 day period. If, after 14
days, the owner is able to demonstrate to Animal Control that accommodations
have been put in place to secure the dog in an appropriate manner without the
need to tether, the dog will be returned to the owner. If said accommodations
have not been made, the dog will become the property of Dare County Animal
Control.
(Adopted 5-15-2017; Amended - - )
IMPOUNDMENT OF DOGS OR CATS
§ 91.050 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND.
   Any dog or cat which appears to be lost or unwanted, which is found to be
not wearing a currently valid identification or which is found to be not
wearing a currently valid rabies vaccination tag, as required by state law or
this chapter, or which is determined by the Animal Control Officer, based on
reasonable cause, to be a vicious animal, stray dog or public nuisance may be
apprehended and confined in the animal shelter.
(Prior Code, § 91.30) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.051 NOTIFICATION OF OWNER.
   Immediately upon impounding a dog or cat the Animal Control Department shall
give notice as prescribed in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.31) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.052 SALE OR DESTRUCTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS OR CATS.
   If an impounded dog or cat is not properly redeemed by the owner, it may be
sold or destroyed in a humane manner by the Animal Control Department.
(Prior Code, § 91.32) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.053 ANIMALS SUSPECTED OF HAVING RABIES.
   Impounded dogs or cats which have been bitten by a rabid animal or appear to
be suffering from rabies shall not be redeemed or sold but shall be dealt with
as provided in §§
91.065 through
91.074 herein.
(Prior Code, § 91.33) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.054 ANIMALS OFFICIALLY SURRENDERED BY OWNERS.
   If an animal is officially surrendered by the owner to the Animal Control
Department to be placed in a home or destroyed in a humane matter, it may be
disposed of immediately.
(Prior Code, § 91.34) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.055 BADLY WOUNDED OR DISEASED DOGS OR CATS.
   Any impounded dog or cat which is badly wounded or diseased (not a rabies
suspect) and has no identification shall be destroyed immediately in a humane
manner. If the animal has identification, the Animal Control Department shall
attempt to notify the owner before disposing of the animal, but if the owner
cannot be reached readily and the animal is suffering, the Animal Control
Department may destroy the animal, at its discretion, in a humane manner.
(Prior Code, § 91.35) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.056 REDEMPTION; ADOPTION.
   (A)   Redemption of dog or cat.
      (1)   When any dog or cat has been impounded at the animal shelter,
notice thereof shall be given to the owner, or if the owner is unknown, notice
thereof shall be posted for a minimum of 5 days, or until the animal is
suitably placed or other disposition is made pursuant to the ordinances, on
shelter websites and social media, together with the time and place of taking
the animal and the time and date of posting the notice. The time for redemption
of the animal, as hereinabove provided, shall not begin to run until the notice
has been given or posted.
      (2)   The owner shall be entitled, after the expiration of any required
quarantine, to resume possession of his or her animal upon compliance with this
chapter, the payment of a shelter fee and the payment of boarding expenses.
      (3)   Each additional impoundment of the same animal shall increase the
owner redemption fee by an additional fee over the previous redemption fee for
that animal.
   (B)   Adoption of dog or cat. After the 5-days’ notice provided for in
division (A) of this section, an animal may be adopted by a suitable applicant,
upon payment of an adoption fee and the identification tag fee.
   (C)   Fees. The specific fee amounts mentioned in this section shall be as
set forth in fee schedules adopted from time to time by the appropriate agency
or department.
(Prior Code, § 91.36) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978; Ord. passed 12-4-2023)
RABIES VACCINATION AND CONTROL
§ 91.065 INOCULATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to fail to provide current inoculation
against rabies (hydrophobia) for his or her dog. Should it be deemed necessary
by the County Health Director, Board of Commissioners or state public health
veterinarian that other pet animals be vaccinated in order to prevent a
threatened epidemic or to control an existing epidemic, it shall be unlawful
for an owner to fail to provide current inoculation against rabies for that pet
animal.
(Prior Code, § 91.45) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.066 REPORT AND QUARANTINE OF BITING DOGS.
   Every dog which has bitten anyone or which shows symptoms of rabies shall be
confined immediately by its owner and shall be promptly reported to the Health
Department by its owner or the person having the dog in charge, and thereupon
shall be securely quarantined at the direction of the Health Department for a
period of 10 days and shall not be released from the quarantine except by
written permission from the Health Department. The biting dog and its records
of vaccination and registration shall be inspected by the Health Director, who
will then observe the following policy:
   (A)   A properly vaccinated and registered dog may be confined on the
owner’s premises; provided, that the Health Director determines that the owner
has an adequate means of confinement upon his or her own premises and the
animal is subject to observation by the owner at any time during the 10-day
period.
   (B)   A dog not properly vaccinated or registered but belonging to an owner
shall immediately be confined in a veterinary hospital or the county animal
shelter, in which case the expense shall be borne by the owner for the 10-day
confinement.
   (C)   A stray dog shall immediately be confined in the county animal shelter
for a 10-day period.
(Prior Code, § 91.46) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.067 REFUSAL OF OWNER TO PERMIT INVESTIGATION; REDEMPTION OF DOGS FOUND NOT
TO HAVE RABIES.
   Except as provided in
§ 91.066, it shall be unlawful for the owner to refuse an examination or
investigation by the Health Director, upon demand, of any dog which has bitten
a human. If the dog is confined in the county animal shelter and if rabies does
not develop within 10 days, the dog may be reclaimed, upon payment not to
exceed the amount as shall be established from time to time by ordinance for
feeding and upon compliance with other provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.47) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.068 PROCEDURE WHEN RABIES DIAGNOSED.
   If an animal dies while under observation for rabies, the head of such
animal may be submitted to the county’s Health Department for shipment to the
state’s Laboratory of Hygiene for diagnosis.
(Prior Code, § 91.48) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.069 EMERGENCY AREA-WIDE QUARANTINE.
   (A)   When reports indicate a positive diagnosis of rabies, the county’s
Health Director shall order an area-wide quarantine for a period as he or she
deems necessary; and upon invoking of the emergency quarantine by the Health
Director, no pet animal shall be taken into the streets or permitted to be in
the streets during the period. During the quarantine, no animal may be taken or
shipped from the county without written permission of the Health Director, and
each member of the Animal Control Department, Police and Sheriff’s Department
is hereby fully authorized, during such emergency, to impound any dog found
running at-large in the county. During the quarantine period, the local health
authorities shall be empowered to provide for a program of mass immunization by
the establishment of temporary emergency rabies vaccination clinics
strategically located throughout the county.
   (B)   No dog which has been impounded by reason of its being a stray,
unclaimed by its owner, shall be allowed to be adopted from the animal shelter
during the period of emergency rabies quarantine, except by special
authorization of the Health Director.
(Prior Code, § 91.49) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.070 ANIMALS BITTEN BY KNOWN RABID ANIMAL.
   Animals bitten by a known rabid animal shall be immediately destroyed,
unless the owner agrees to strict isolation of the animal in the animal shelter
in the case of dogs or cats, or at a veterinary hospital in the case of other
animals, for a period of 6 months, or if the animal has a current rabies
inoculation, revaccination and confinement for a period of 6 months.
(Prior Code, § 91.50) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.071 EXTENSION OF QUARANTINE.
   In the event there are additional positive cases of rabies occurring during
the period of quarantine, such period of quarantine may be extended at the
discretion of the Health Director.
(Prior Code, § 91.51) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.072 KILLING; RELEASING OR REMOVING ANIMALS FROM COUNTY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or release any animal under
observation for rabies, any animal suspected of having been exposed to rabies
or any animal biting a human, or to remove the animal from the county without
written permission from the Health Director.
(Prior Code, § 91.52) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.073 SURRENDER OF CARCASSES OF DEAD ANIMALS EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies shall be surrendered to the
Health Department. The head of the animal may be submitted to the state’s
Laboratory of Hygiene for diagnosis.
(Prior Code, § 91.53) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.074 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO SURRENDER ANIMALS WHEN DEMANDED BY HEALTH
DIRECTOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to surrender any
animal for quarantine or destruction as required in this chapter when demand is
made therefor by the Health Director.
(Prior Code, § 91.54) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.085 ANIMAL CONTROL DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created an animal control department of the county,
which shall be composed of the employees as shall be determined by the Board of
Commissioners. The employees shall be appointed and compensated in accordance
with policies of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Animal Control Department shall be charged with the responsibility
of:
      (1)   Enforcing in the county all state or county laws, the provisions of
this chapter and any applicable ordinances and resolutions of the county
relating to dogs and cats;
      (2)   Cooperating with the Health Director and assisting in the
enforcement of the laws of the state with regard to animals and especially with
regard to vaccination of dogs against rabies and the confinement or leashing of
vicious animals (without limiting, the foregoing reference is particularly made
to G.S. Ch. 67 and §§ 106-304 et seq.);
      (3)   Investigating cruelty or abuse with regard to dogs and cats;
      (4)   Making such canvasses of the county, including the homes in the
county, as it deems necessary for the purpose of ascertaining that all dogs are
duly and properly listed for identification purposes and that all dogs are
vaccinated against rabies;
      (5)   Operating, pursuant to the policies of the Board of Commissioners,
the County Animal Shelter;
      (6)   Listing for identification and issuing identification tags for
dogs, and maintaining a reference file in connection therewith, all in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the policies of the Board of
Commissioners; and
      (7)   Keeping or causing to be kept accurate and detailed records of:
         (a)   Impoundment and disposition of all animals coming into the
animal shelter;
         (b)   Bite cases and complaint investigations;
         (c)   All money which was derived from impoundment fees, penalties and
sales of animals; and
         (d)   All other records deemed necessary by the County Manager.
(Prior Code, § 91.65) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978)
§ 91.086 INTERFERENCE WITH ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to forcibly interfere with, hinder or
molest the Animal Control Department or its agents or animal control officers
or veterinarians in the performance of any duty authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.67) (Ord. passed 11-6-1978) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
FERAL CATS
§ 91.095 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to permit and establish the requirements
regarding the keeping of feral cats in order to reduce the population of feral
cats, benefiting public health, improving the quality of life for residents and
visitors, and ensuring the humane treatment of feral cats.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.096 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future and the past, words in the plural include the singular, and words in the
singular include the plural.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AGENCY. Any agency or person, including an animal control
officer, authorized by law to implement animal control laws and provide animal
care and control on behalf of the municipality.
   ANIMAL WELFARE ORGANIZATION. Any charitable corporation whose purpose
includes promotion of animal welfare and that has been granted 501c3 nonprofit
status by the Internal Revenue Service.
   CAREGIVER. Any person who regularly provides food and water to a feral cat
colony approved through and in compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
   EARTIP. A mark identifying a feral or stray cat as having been sterilized,
specifically the removal of a quarter inch off the tip of the cat's ear in a
straight line cut while the cat is anesthetized.
   FEEDING STATION. A small area with an established purpose of putting out
food and water for a feral cat colony.
   FERAL CAT. A cat that is not socialized to humans and is not an owned cat.
   FERAL CAT COLONY AND COLONY. A group of greater than 6 feral or stray cats
that congregate, more or less, together as a unit and share a common food
source.
   FERAL CAT SANCTUARY. An enclosure designed to and which contains a feral cat
colony within the bounds of the sanctuary.
   NUISANCE.
      (1)   Conduct by feral or stray cats that:
         (a)   Disturbs the peace, including habitually or continually howling
or making loud noises; and
         (b)   Destroys property;
         (c)   Gets into or turns over any solid waste container or trash can;
         (d)   Walks on, sleeps on, or scratches a vehicle or other property
owned by someone or some entity other than the owner of the cat;
         (e)   Damages real or personal property owned someone or some entity
other than the owner of the cat;
         (f)   Defecates and/or urinates upon property owned by someone or some
entity other than the owner of the cat.
      (2)   It shall also constitute a nuisance to:
         (a)   Keep feral or stray cats in violation of this subchapter;
         (b)   To keep or maintain feral or stray cats in unsanitary conditions
so as to be offensive to sight or smell or resulting in infestations of fleas,
ticks or other vermin;
         (c)   Fail to confine a feral cat in estrus from other domestic cats.
   OWNED CAT. A cat that is a companion to a person, is regularly fed and
sheltered within that same person's habitation and carries visible indicia of
ownership, including a collar, tag or microchip.
   SHELTER. A structure that provides feral and stray cats with protection from
cold, rain and other weather-related elements.
   STERILIZE. To spay or neuter.
   STRAY CAT. A cat that is socialized to humans and is not an owned cat.
   TNR. The method of managing feral and stray cats known as Trap-Neuter-
Return, pursuant to which feral and stray cats are trapped, sterilized,
vaccinated against rabies, eartipped, and returned to the location authorized
in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.097 MANAGEMENT OF FERAL CAT COLONIES.
   Caregivers shall be entitled to maintain feral cat colonies in accordance
with the terms and conditions of this subchapter. Populations must be
maintained in manageable numbers not exceed 1 cat per 400 square feet of
property upon which the cats are to be located. (Ord. passed 1- 19-2016)
§ 91.098 CAREGIVER RESPONSIBILITIES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All caregivers.
      (1)   All caregivers shall adhere to the standards of care established in
§
91.099.
      (2)   Maintain records of all feral cat colonies managed by their
caregivers pursuant to the requirements of this section.
      (3)   All animals shall be sterilized and vaccinated.
      (4)   Maintain records provided by caregivers on the size and location of
colonies, as well as vaccination and sterilization records of cats in the
colonies.
      (5)   Assume all medical costs in relation to their colonies.
      (6)   Help resolve any complaints regarding the conduct of caregivers.
      (7)   Make reasonable efforts to trap all cats in a colony and have all
trapped cats sterilized, vaccinated against rabies, and eartipped by a licensed
veterinarian.
      (8)   Make a reasonable effort to recapture all cats to update rabies
vaccinations as required by law.
      (9)   Keep and maintain vaccination, sterilization, and medical records
for all trapped cats.
      (10)   Make a reasonable effort to trap and obtain proper medical
attention for a colony cat that appears to require it.
   (B)   Caregivers. Caregivers shall keep and maintain individual animal
vaccination and sterilization records and shall make them accessible to the
Dare County Animal Shelter and the Dare County Sheriff's Office upon their
request. In addition, caregivers shall maintain and keep the following
information and shall make accessible to the Dare County Animal Shelter and
Dare County Sheriff's Office upon their request:
      (1)   Total number of colonies located in Dare County.
      (2)   Location of all colonies.
      (3)   Individual colony reports including;
         (a)   Total number of cats in the colony and total number of cats in
that colony that are sterilized.
         (b)   Number of cats that were sterilized and vaccinated over the past
year.
         (c)   Number of cats and kittens removed from the colony that year for
adoptive purposes.
         (d)   Number of cats and kittens that died over that year.
         (e)   Number of cats and kittens that have otherwise left the colony.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.099 COLONY LOCATION AND CARE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Cat colonies.
      (1)   Caregivers shall provide adequate food and water to the colonies.
Adequate feed is not to exceed one-half cup of dry cat food per cat per day. If
feeding anything other dry cat food, provisions shall be reduced to maintain
proper population control. Over-feeding and other increased resources result in
higher population sustainability. In the winter months slightly more food may
be given, provided population management remains level.
      (2)   Food is not to be left down for more than 2 hours a day in an
effort to reduce resources for new animals and optimize health standards for
the colony.
      (3)   Cats appearing unhealthy or containing serious and contagious
illnesses may not be returned to the colonies unless illness has been resolved
through veterinary care.
      (4)   Colony locations shall be upon property owned by the caregiver or
upon property for which the caregiver has written permission from the property
owner.
      (5)   Feeding stations and shelters shall be no less than 100 yards from
property for which no written permission to maintain a colony has been
obtained. Feral cat enclosures that contain feral cat colonies within the
caregiver's own property such that the cats cannot leave the property, and
which do not constitute a nuisance as defined herein, are exempt from the 100
yard rule.
      (6)   Colonies are not permitted on federally protected wildlife
preserves and shall be maintained a reasonable distance from such preserves.
      (7)   When providing structures for cat colonies they shall be in a
location safeguarded from the public.
   (B)   Feral cat sanctuaries.
      (1)   Feral cat aanctuaries are structures built for containing a feral
cat colony within the structure and shall adhere to the same standards and
requirements as established in §
91.098 and division (A) of this section.
      (2)   In addition, feral cat sanctuaries shall be inspected annually by a
representative of the Dare County Animal Shelter. Feral cat sanctuary
caregivers are also required to grant a Dare County Animal Shelter
representative access to the property upon written notice. Admittance to the
property shall be granted within 3 business days of notice from the Dare County
Animal Shelter.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.100 WITHDRAWAL OF CAREGIVER.
   In the event that a caregiver of a colony is unable or unwilling to continue
in that role, he or she shall notify the Dare County Animal Shelter in writing
and shall make reasonable efforts to secure a replacement caregiver.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.101 DISPOSITION OF COLONY CATS.
   Caregivers shall notify Dare County Animal Shelter when colony cats are
missing. When the Dare County Animal Shelter has trapped or received an
eartipped cat, they shall take reasonable steps to notify all caregivers, if
known, of the description and sex of the cat and of the address or location
where the cat was captured. Caregivers shall have up to 72 hours after
notification to arrange for the cat to be retrieved.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.102 ENFORCEMENT.
   Dare County Animal Control or the agency designated by Dare County to
provide animal control services and law enforcement agencies with jurisdiction
shall have the right to:
   (A)   Investigate and enforce any violation of this subchapter and/or any
nuisance complaint allegedly caused by a feral or stray cat or feral cat
colony;
      (1)   If it is found that a feral or stray cat or feral cat colony is
causing a nuisance, the caregiver if known, shall be given written notice
delineating the nuisance and location of the cat or colony with specificity.
      (2)   If a cat or cats belonging to a feral cat colony is causing a
nuisance, then the caregiver of the colony shall have 10 days from the date
that written notice was provided pursuant to this division (A) to cure the
nuisance. If the caregiver fails to cure the nuisance within 10 days, an Animal
Control Agency shall remove the offending cat or cats.
   (B)   Reassign caregiver responsibility of feral cat colonies if the
caregiver repeatedly fails to comply with the requirements of §
91.098 and the caregiver does not correct the situation within 10 days of being
given written notice delineating its failures with specificity.
   (C)   Upon complaint of a property owner, remove a feral cat without notice,
from the property of the complaining property owner.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.103 GRACE PERIOD.
   (A)   If an Animal Control Agency locates or becomes aware of a feral cat
colony, reasonable efforts shall be made by the Animal Control Agency or to
provide written notice to the caregiver of the colony, if known, of the
requirements of §
91.098.
   (B)   Upon receipt of written notice as set forth in §
91.102, a caregiver of a feral cat colony shall have 30 days to comply with §
91.098. During the 30-day period, no cat from the colony shall be removed by an
Animal Control Agency or by Dare County for reason of causing a nuisance,
unless such cat or colony is upon the property of another, without that persons
written permission and from whom a complaint has been received, in which case,
the cat(s) or the cat colony shall be removed without notice.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.104 PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No person shall harass feral cats or feral cat colonies compliant with
this subchapter and not located upon their property or the property upon which
they are a tenant.
   (B)   No person shall harass or prevent a caregiver's ability to care for a
compliant cat colony.
   (C)    No person shall dump out, remove/move, or disturb any food/water at
any compliant cat colonies.
   (D)   If members of the public feel a caregiver is out of compliance with
this subchapter, they are to report such delinquencies to the Dare County
Animal Shelter.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.105 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS OF DOMESTICATED CATS.
   (A)   Owners should take reasonable precautions to identify their cat as
owned. These precautions include providing the cat with a microchip, collar, or
tag. Collar and tags are required to be worn by cats, pursuant to G.S. § 130A-
190.
   (B)   Due to the overwhelming number of cats in Dare County, owners of
domesticated cats shall take reasonable precautions not to allow unsterilized
cats to roam at large.
   (C)   Owners of domesticated cats shall take reasonable precautions not to
allow their cat(s) to act as a public nuisance.
   (D)   Owners of domesticated cats shall not abandon their cats.
   (E)   When feeding outdoors, owners of domesticated cats shall not allow the
food to be available for more than 2 hours a day in an effort to reduce the
resources for other animals.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
§ 91.106 VIOLATION MISDEMEANOR AND SUBJECT TO CIVIL PENALTY.
   In accordance with G.S. § 153A-123, unless provided otherwise in this
subchapter, a violation of this subchapter shall be considered a Class 3
misdemeanor under the provisions of G.S. § 14-4, punishable upon conviction by
a fine not exceeding $50 or by imprisonment not exceeding 30 days and shall be
further subject to a civil penalty of a $50 per day for each of the first 15
days such violations continue after written notice of the violation has been
issued, $100 per day for the sixteenth through the thirtieth day such violation
continues after the initial written notice and $500 per day or the maximum
amount authorized under the provision of the North Carolina General Statutes,
for each day after 30 days that such violation continues after initial written
notice.
(Ord. passed 1-19-2016)
CHAPTER 92: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
92.01   Short title
   
92.02   Intent and purpose
   
92.03   Definitions
   
92.04   Powers and duties of county
   
92.05   Declaration of state of emergency
   
92.06   Emergency Management Department established; appointment of Director
   
92.07   Duties and responsibilities of Director
   
92.08   Emergency Management Plan
   
92.09   No governmental or private liability
   
92.10   Conflicting ordinances, orders, rules and regulations suspended
   
92.11   Applicability extensions
   
92.12   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the "Dare
County Emergency Management Chapter."
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to set forth the
authority and responsibility of the county, its officers, departments, and
employees in the prevention of, preparation and planning for, response to and
recovery from natural or man-made emergencies including natural or man-made
accidental, military, paramilitary, weather-related, or riot-related causes. It
is further the intent and purpose of this chapter to establish an office that
will insure the complete and efficient utilization of all of the county's
resources to prepare and plan for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate
against emergencies.
   (B)   This chapter shall not relieve any municipal or county department of
the legal responsibilities or authority given to it in the Municipal or County
Charter or by local ordinances, nor will it adversely affect the work of any
volunteer agency organized for relief in emergencies.
   (C)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to G.S. § 166A-19.31. To the extent
not specifically enumerated herein, all authorities and powers conferred on the
county pursuant to G.S. Ch. 166A, and all similar provisions of state and
federal law, are incorporated herein by reference.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHAIRMAN. The Chairman of the Dare County Board of Commissioners, the
Chairman's designee, or, in the case of the absence or disability of the
Chairman and the Chairman's designee, the person authorized to act in the
Chairman's stead.
   EMERGENCY. An occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury, or loss of life or property resulting from any natural or man-made
accidental, military, or paramilitary cause, weather-related, or riot-related
cause.
   EMERGENCY AREA. The geographical area covered by a state of emergency.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. Those measures taken by the public and governmental
units operating within the county to minimize the adverse effect of any type of
emergency, including the never-ending preparedness cycle of planning,
prevention, mitigation, warning, movement, shelter, emergency assistance,
response, and recovery. This term shall not, however, include any activity,
maneuvers, operations, or exercises that are the primary responsibility of the
military forces of the United States.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL. All employees of the county and municipal
governments within the county, their departments, boards, institutions, and
councils, agents, representatives, contractors and subcontractors who are
participating in emergency management activities. Where possible, duties
assigned to municipal or county departments shall be the same as or similar to
the normal duties of the department.
   STATE OF EMERGENCY. The condition that exists whenever, during times of
public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or similar public emergency,
public safety authorities are unable to maintain public order or afford
adequate protection for lives or property, and which constitutes a significant
threat to public health, safety and welfare whether actual or imminent as
authorized pursuant to G.S. § 166A-19.3(19).
   VOLUNTEERS. All volunteer personnel and agencies offering emergency
management service to, and accepted by municipalities and the county.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNTY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S § 166A-19.15, the county is responsible for emergency
management within the geographical limits of the county. All emergency
management efforts within the county, including activities of the
municipalities within the county, shall be coordinated by the county.
   (B)   The county is authorized to take the following actions in furtherance
of coordinating emergency management efforts:
      (1)   Establish and maintain an emergency management agency.
      (2)   Appoint a Director of the County Emergency Management Agency who
will have the direct responsibility for the organization, administration, and
operation of the county's Emergency Management Program.
      (3)   Appropriate and expend funds, execute contracts, enter into mutual
aid agreements with other units of federal, state, and local government and
other non-profit organizations and agencies, obtain and distribute equipment,
materials, and supplies for emergency management purposes, and provide for the
health and safety of persons and property, including emergency assistance.
      (4)   Develop, coordinate, and implement an emergency management plan
consistent with policies and standards established by the state.
      (5)   Assign and make available resources for emergency management
purposes for service within or outside of the geographical limits of the
county.
      (6)   Delegate powers in a declared state of emergency to an appropriate
official.
      (7)   Coordinate with municipalities within the county and other units of
local, state, and federal government, and other non-profit, emergency
management, and affected organizations in the development and implementation of
an emergency management plan and response to disasters.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.05 DECLARATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 166A-19.22, a state of emergency shall be declared
when it is determined that circumstances and conditions exist which create a
real or imminent threat of a public crisis, disaster, rioting, catastrophe, or
similar public emergency within the county in response to which public safety
authorities are unable to maintain public order or afford adequate protection
for lives and property and which pose significant threats to public health and
safety.
   (B)   The Dare County Board of Commissioners hereby delegates to the
Chairman of the Board of Commissioners, or the Chairman's designee, who shall
also be a member of the Board of Commissioners, the authority to determine and
declare the existence of a state of emergency within the county, to order the
evacuation of some or all portions of the county, to authorize the reentry of
persons into the county following evacuation, and to impose, during that state
of emergency, prohibitions and restrictions deemed necessary to protect public
health, safety and welfare and minimize damage to property. The type of
prohibitions and restrictions authorized during a state of emergency include
prohibition and restriction:
      (1)   Of movements of people in public places, including any of the
following:
         (a)   Imposing a curfew;
         (b)   Directing and compelling the voluntary or mandatory evacuation
of all or part of the population from any stricken or threatened area within
the governing body's jurisdiction;
         (c)   Prescribing routes, modes of transportation, and destinations in
connection with evacuation;
         (d)   Controlling ingress and egress of an emergency area, and the
movement of persons within that area; or
         (e)   Providing for the closure, within the emergency area of streets,
roads, highways, bridges, public vehicular areas, or other areas ordinarily
used for vehicular travel, except to the movement of emergency responders and
other persons necessary for recovery from the emergency. As authorized by G.S.
§ 166A-19.31(b)(1)e., the Dare County Sheriff may exercise the authority
granted by this subdivision during a declared state of emergency.
      (2)   Of the operation of offices, business establishments, and other
places to or from which people may travel or at which they may congregate;
      (3)   Upon the possession, transportation, sale, purchase, and
consumption of alcoholic beverages;
      (4)   With the exception of lawfully possessed firearms (defined pursuant
to G.S. § 166A-19.31(b)(4) as handguns, rifles, or shotguns), upon possession,
storage, and use of dangerous weapons and substances, and combustible fuels;
      (5)   Upon other activities or conditions the control of which may be
reasonably necessary to maintain order and protect lives or property during the
state of emergency;
      (6)   Any and all prohibitions and restrictions authorized by G.S. §
166A-19.31.
   (C)   A state of emergency declared pursuant to this chapter, and all
prohibitions and restrictions imposed as a result of the declaration, shall be
established by written declaration duly executed by the Chairman or the
Chairman's designee, and shall remain in effect until such time as the
declaration is amended or rescinded in the same manner. The declaration shall
include a listing of all restrictions and prohibitions imposed and, where
applicable, the date and time on which such restrictions and prohibitions
become effective. When a town's mayor consents to or requests the county state
of emergency include his or her town as authorized by G.S. § 166A-19.22. (b)(2)
& (3), it shall be stated in the county's declaration. Notice of the
declaration will be provided to a North Carolina Department of Transportation
representative as soon as practical when the closure of any streets, roads,
highways, bridges, public vehicular areas, or other areas ordinarily used for
vehicular travel is ordered. The signed declaration shall be posted
conspicuously on the County website and will be submitted to the North Carolina
Department of Public Safety WebEOC critical incident management system as
required by G.S. § 166A-19.31(d).
   (D)   At such time as a state of emergency is declared, the Dare County
Emergency Management Plan, all standard operating procedures adopted pursuant
to the Plan, and all applicable mutual aid agreements and other similar
agreements and compacts shall be activated.
   (E)   Any declaration of a state of emergency, and all restrictions and
prohibitions imposed as a result of the declaration, shall apply in all
unincorporated areas of the county unless otherwise specified in the
declaration.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.06 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED; APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Dare County Emergency Management Department is hereby established,
and shall serve as the coordinating agency for all activity in connection with
emergency management within the county. The Department shall be the agency
through which the Dare County Board of Commissioners exercise the authority and
discharges the responsibilities vested in it during emergencies. The Department
shall also be the coordinating agency for all activity connected with emergency
management, including activities within municipalities.
   (B)   The Dare County Board of Commissioners shall appoint a Director of the
Dare County Emergency Management Department who shall be a person well-versed
and trained in planning operations involving the activities of many different
agencies which will operate to protect the public health, safety and welfare in
the event of an emergency.
   (C)   The Director shall designate and appoint Deputy Directors to assume
the duties of the Director during an emergency in the event of his or her
absence or inability to fulfill these duties.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.07 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTOR.
   The Director shall be responsible to the Dare County Board of Commissioners
with regard to all phases of emergency management activity. The Director shall
be responsible for the planning, coordination and operation of all emergency
management activities in the county. The Director shall maintain liaison with
state and federal authorities and the authorities of nearby political
subdivisions to maximize effective operation of emergency management plans. The
Director's duties shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Coordinating the recruitment of volunteer personnel and agencies to
augment the personnel and facilities of the county for emergency management
purposes.
   (B)   Developing, coordinating and implementing a comprehensive Emergency
Management Plan for the county, including plans for the immediate use of all
facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources of the county for the
purpose of minimizing or preventing damage to persons and property, and
protecting and restoring to operational status those governmental services and
public utilities necessary for the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Negotiating and concluding agreements with owners or persons in
control of buildings or other property for the use of such buildings or other
property for emergency management purposes, and identifying suitable buildings
as public shelters.
   (D)   Through public informational programs, educating the public as to
actions necessary and required for the protection of their persons and property
in case of an emergency.
   (E)   Conducting proactive public alerts to ensure the efficient operation
of emergency management personnel and procedures, and to familiarize residents
and businesses with emergency management regulations, procedures and
operations.
   (F)   Coordinating the activities of all other public and private agencies
engaged in emergency management operations, including planning, organizing,
staffing, equipping, training, testing, and activation of emergency management
plans and programs.
   (G)   Developing and maintaining a system of damage assessment to determine
the level of post-emergency damage to public and private property.
   (H)   Entering into mutual aid agreements with other units of federal,
state, and local government, and other organizations as may be necessary, for
the mutual sharing and coordination of resources needed to respond to and
recover from a disaster.
   (I)   Coordinating the development of Standard Operating Procedures to
provide for the implementation of the Emergency Management Plan.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.08 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Director shall develop a comprehensive
Emergency Management Plan which shall be adopted and maintained by resolution
of the Dare County Board of Commissioners. The Emergency Management Plan shall
identify all possible threats of an emergency to the county, and proscribe
procedures to respond to and mitigate the consequences of disasters. It is
intended that the Emergency Management Plan be consistent with all applicable
state and federal emergency management and incident response guidelines. It is
further intended that the services, equipment, facilities, and personnel of all
departments and agencies of county and municipal government be utilized to the
fullest extent in the Plan. When approved, it shall be the duty of the
Emergency Management Director to coordinate and maintain the Plan, and of all
departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned under the Plan, and
maintain their areas of responsibility in a current state of readiness at all
times. All provisions of the Plan shall have the effect of law whenever a state
of emergency has been declared.
   (B)   The Director shall prescribe in the Plan those positions within the
emergency management organization, in addition to his or her own, for which
lines of succession are necessary. In each instance, the responsible person
will designate and keep on file with the Director a current list of 3 persons
as successors to his or her position. The list will be in order of succession
and will nearly as possible designate persons best capable of carrying out of
all assigned duties and functions.
   (C)   Each service chief and department head assigned responsibility in the
Plan shall be responsible for carrying out all duties and functions assigned
therein. Duties will include the organization and training of assigned
employees and, where needed, volunteers. Each chief shall formulate a Standard
Operating Procedure to implement the specific plans for carrying out his or her
assigned area of responsibility.
   (D)   Amendments to the Plan shall be submitted to the Director. If
approved, the Director will then submit the amendments to the Dare County Board
of Commissioners with his or her recommendation for their approval.
   (E)   When personnel requiring specialized competency or skill for an
emergency function are not available within government, the Director is
authorized to seek assistance from persons outside of government. The
assignment of duties, when of a supervisory nature, shall also include the
granting of authority for the persons so assigned to carry out such duties
prior to, during, and after the occurrence of an emergency. Such services from
persons outside of government may be accepted by local government on a
volunteer basis. Such citizens shall be enrolled as Emergency Management
volunteers.
   (F)   The Plan shall provide for the ,coordination between the county and
the municipalities within the county, the National Park Service, the Dare
County Sheriff, and others as may be needed, to make timely and coordinated
decisions regarding the implementation of the Plan in response to actual or
imminent emergencies.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.09 NO GOVERNMENTAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted by the County of Dare as an exercise of its
police powers for the protection of the public peace, health, and safety as
authorized by state and federal law, and all functions hereunder and all other
activities relating to emergency management are hereby declared to be
governmental functions. Neither the county, nor its agents, representatives, or
any volunteer, emergency management personnel, individual, receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, or any of the agents
therefor acting in good faith and without gross negligence or willful
misconduct while carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply with any
order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or any applicable provision of state and federal law, shall be liable
for any injury or damage sustained to persons or property as the result of said
activity.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation, together with any successors in
interest, if any, owning or legally controlling real or personal property who
voluntarily or involuntarily, knowingly or unknowingly, with or without
compensation grants a license, privilege, or otherwise permits or allows the
county and its agents, representatives, contractors, and subcontractors the
right to inspect, designate and use the whole or any part or parts of such real
or personal property for the purpose, activities, or functions relating to
emergency management as provided for in this chapter or within the North
Carolina General Statutes shall not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any persons, or the loss of or damage to the property of any persons
where such death, injury, loss or damage resulted from, through or because of
the use of the said real or personal property for any of the above purposes
provided that the use of said property is subject to the order or control or
pursuant to a request of Dare County, the State of North Carolina, or any
political subdivision thereof.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.10 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS SUSPENDED.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.11 APPLICABILITY EXTENSIONS.
   The municipalities within Dare County may ratify this chapter and adopt it
as their own, including all forms and conditions specified herein.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on the date adopted by the Dare County Board
of Commissioners.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Unless otherwise provided for by law, it shall be a Class 2 misdemeanor for
any person to violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or any
proclamations, provisions or any Emergency Management Plans, or provisions or
any Standard Operating Procedures adopted or issued pursuant to the authority
contained herein, or to willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any member of the
Emergency Management organization in the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter or any proclamations, provisions or any Emergency Management Plans, or
provisions of any Standard Operating Procedures adopted or issued thereunder.
(Res. 12-12-34, passed 12-3-2012; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-2020)
CHAPTER 93: DOCK AREA REGULATIONS
Section
Hatteras Harbor
   
93.01   Application of provisions
   
93.02   Regulations of Hatteras Harbor
   
93.03   Removal of vehicles in violation of subchapter
 
   
93.99   Penalty
HATTERAS HARBOR
§ 93.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The regulations set out in
§ 93.02 shall apply within the land and water areas described in Attachment A
incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 93.01) (Ord. passed 11-18-1988)
§ 93.02 REGULATIONS OF HATTERAS HARBOR.
   (A)   All land vehicles shall park only in the designated parking area
marked by signs.
   (B)   No negotiations or sales shall be conducted on the docking site;
loading and unloading of commercial vessels is allowed only to or from a
vehicle owned by the owner of the vessel.
   (C)   The dock shall not be used by any single vessel in excess of 4 hours
in a 24-hour period.
   (D)   The user shall be responsible to keep the dock clear of all debris at
all times.
(Prior Code, § 93.02) (Ord. passed 11-18-1988) Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.03 REMOVAL OF VEHICLES IN VIOLATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Vehicles in violation of this subchapter may be removed from the water or
land area by the county or an agent of the county to a storage area or garage;
if vehicle is so removed, the owner, as a condition of regaining possession of
the vehicle, shall be required to pay to the county all reasonable costs
incidental to the removal and storage of the vehicle in addition to any penalty
imposed by the General Court of Justice.
(Prior Code, § 93.03) (Ord. passed 11-18-1988)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall constitute an infraction and violators shall
be required to pay a penalty of not more than $50 as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 93.99) (Ord. passed 11-18-1988)
CHAPTER 94: ENHANCED 911 SERVICE
Section
   
94.01   Imposition of monthly charge
   
94.02   Incorporation of state law
   
94.03   Calling 911 for other than public safety assistance
Cross-reference:
   Civil Preparedness and Emergencies, see
Chapter 92
§ 94.01 IMPOSITION OF MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a monthly charge upon each exchange access
facility subscribed to by telephone subscribers whose exchange access lines are
located in Dare County.
   (B)   The effective date of imposition and collection of the charges
provided herein shall be the one hundred twenty-first day after the adoption of
this chapter.
   (C)   The monthly enhanced 911 service charge shall for the fiscal year in
which the imposition of the charge is effective be $1 per month; thereafter the
monthly charge shall be established by the Board of Commissioners but may not
exceed $1 per month.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. R92-3-7, passed 3-9-1992)
§ 94.02 INCORPORATION OF STATE LAW.
   The definitions, procedures for payment and collection, administration and
all other provisions of G.S. Ch. 62A are incorporated herein by reference.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. R92-3-7, passed 3-9-1992)
§ 94.03 CALLING 911 FOR OTHER THAN PUBLIC SAFETY ASSISTANCE.
   Any person who intentionally calls the 911 number for other than purposes of
obtaining public safety assistance commits a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. R92-3-7, passed 3-9-1992) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
CHAPTER 95: LIBRARIES
Section
Dare County Library
   
95.01   Board of Trustees of the Dare County Library composition; terms of
members; Finance Committee
   
95.02   Meetings of the Board; attendance
   
95.03   Officers of the Board; duties
   
95.04   Quorum
   
95.05   Amendments of bylaws
   
95.06   Application for employment
DARE COUNTY LIBRARY
§ 95.01 BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE DARE COUNTY LIBRARY COMPOSITION; TERMS OF
MEMBERS; FINANCE COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Dare County Library shall consist of 8
members and shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners. A County
Commissioner shall serve as 1 of the members of the Library Board. The term of
office shall be for 3 years, and a member shall be eligible to succeed himself
or herself for 1 additional 3-year term. A member may be reappointed after a
lapse of 1 term. No restrictions apply to the County Commissioner member, as
his or her appointment is entirely in the hands of the Board of Commissioners.
   (B)   The Library Board shall appoint a Finance Committee, consisting of the
Chairperson of the Board, the Librarian and 1 other member of the Board. This
Committee shall have supervision of all financial affairs, including making up
the budget and presenting it to the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 95.01) (Ord. passed 8-5-1976)
§ 95.02 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD; ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees of the Dare County Library shall meet in regular
session 4 times annually in January, April, July and October. Notice of the
meetings, stating time and location, shall be given to all Trustees by the
secretary to the Board.
   (B)   If a Board member fails to attend 3 consecutive meetings, without
valid excuse, he or she is automatically released from membership. The
Secretary shall report the matter to the appointing officials, with a request
for the appointment of a new member.
(Prior Code, § 95.02) (Ord. passed 8-5-1976; Am. Ord. passed 1-19-1999)
§ 95.03 OFFICERS OF THE BOARD; DUTIES.
   (A)   Officers of the Board of Trustees of the Dare County Library shall be
chosen annually and shall be as follows: Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The
Secretary shall be a member of the library staff and the Treasurer shall be the
Librarian.
   (B)   The Chairperson of the Board shall preside at all meetings, appoint
all committees, certify all bills for payment, authorize calls for special
meetings and countersign all checks drawn by the Treasurer. He or she shall be
responsible for all reports required by the state’s Library or by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (C)   The Secretary of the Board shall keep a true and accurate account of
all proceedings of the Board meetings, shall have custody of the minutes and
records of the Board and shall notify the Board of Commissioners of any
vacancies on the Library Board. The Secretary shall prepare 2 extra copies of
all minutes and distribute 1 copy each to the Chairperson and to the Librarian.
The Secretary shall notify the members of the Board of the time of all
meetings.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall have charge of the library funds and shall sign
checks on the account, which shall be countersigned by the Chairperson, and
shall report at each meeting on the state of the funds. The Treasurer shall be
bonded in the sum of $1,000 before entering upon his or her duties.
   (E)   The Librarian shall not be considered a member of the Board and shall
have charge of the administration of the library, under the direction and
review of the Board. The Librarian shall be held responsible for the care of
the building and equipment, for the direction of the staff, for the efficiency
of the library’s service to the public and for the general operation of the
library. The Librarian shall attend all board meetings, except those at which
his appointment or salary is to be discussed or decided.
(Prior Code, § 95.03) (Ord. passed 8-5-1976)
§ 95.04 QUORUM.
   A quorum for the transaction of business by the Board of Trustees of the
Dare County Library shall consist of at least 4 members.
(Prior Code, § 95.04) (Ord. passed 8-5-1976)
§ 95.05 AMENDMENTS OF BYLAWS.
   The bylaws contained in this subchapter may be amended at any meeting of the
Board with a quorum present; provided, that the amendment was stated in the
call of the meeting. An overall review of the bylaws shall be made at least
every 5 years.
(Prior Code, § 95.05) (Ord. passed 8-5-1976)
§ 95.06 APPLICATION FOR EMPLOYMENT.
   Applications for employment shall be submitted to the Librarian on regular
application forms. The librarian shall confer with the Board of Trustees or a
committee from the Board. The final decision shall rest with the Board.
(Prior Code, § 95.06) (Ord. passed 8-5-1976)
CHAPTER 96: LITTERING
Section
   
96.01   Application of provisions to municipalities
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Depositing litter on public and private property
   
96.04   Placing or dumping litter on private property
   
96.05   Provision of solid waste containers or dumpsters
   
96.06   Releasing balloons within unincorporated Dare County
   
96.07   Exceptions
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS TO MUNICIPALITIES.
   This chapter shall be effective within the corporate limits and
extraterritorial jurisdiction of any municipality within the county which shall
so agree by appropriate resolution.
(Prior Code, § 96.01) (Ord. passed 7-20-1970)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BALLOON. A flexible, nonporous bag made from materials such as, but not
limited to, rubber, latex, polychloroprene, mylar, or nylon fabric that can be
inflated or filled with gas or fluid, such as helium, hydrogen, nitrous oxide,
oxygen, air, or water, and then sealed at the neck of the bag. Dare County does
not recognize any balloon as “biodegradable or photodegradable”.
   BROWN GOODS. Mattresses, sofas, tables, chairs, televisions, electronic
equipment and any other furniture or consumer goods of this nature.
   CONTAINER. A plastic receptacle with a lid used for the disposal and storage
of solid waste.
   DUMPSTER. A stationary solid waste container which requires mechanical pick
up by customized loading vehicles, including roll-off containers for the
disposal of construction debris.
   LITTER. Any amount of organic or inorganic waste material, crab and fish
scraps including mollusk shells, debris, rubbish, refuse, garbage, trash,
plastic, hulls, peelings, debris, metal or glass product containers, cardboard,
tires, dead animals, motor vehicle parts, boats and boat engine parts, travel
trailers or recreational vehicles, mobile homes, brown goods, white goods,
motor oil, batteries, agrichemical containers, scrap metal, wood or lumber,
construction debris, balloons, or anything else which has been discarded,
dismantled, abandoned, or otherwise disposed of improperly.
   WHITE GOODS. Refrigerators, stoves, water heaters, washing machines, dryers,
dishwashers, and any other scrap metals or goods of this nature.
(Adopted 5-16-2011; amended 7-16-2024)
§ 96.03 DEPOSITING LITTER ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall place, deposit, or dump any litter on any public highway,
roadway, lane, avenue, street, right-of-way, public property, or on the
property of another in unincorporated Dare County.
(Prior Code, § 96.02) (Ord. passed 7-20-1970; amended 5-16-2011) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 PLACING OR DUMPING LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall place or dump any litter on his or her property or property
under his or her control.
(Prior Code, § 96.03) (Ord. passed 7-20-1970; amended 5-16-2011) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 PROVISION OF SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS OR DUMPSTERS.
   It shall be the responsibility of each property owner of improved property
and/or business owner in unincorporated Dare County to provide at least 1 solid
waste container or dumpster on site of their property or business for the
storage and collection of solid waste. The appropriate number of containers
and/or dumpsters shall be as determined by the Dare County Public Works
Department for the appropriate land use and scope of use of the subject
property. Such containers and dumpsters shall be properly maintained to provide
for servicing by the Dare County Public Works Department. Failure to provide
solid waste containers or dumpsters shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. Written notice to the property owner or business owner in question
shall be provided by Dare County and shall identify the type of solid waste
container that is needed and the number that is needed. Failure to respond to
the notice within 10 calendar days of the date of the notice shall be subject
to a fine of $50 per day of non-compliance.
(Adopted 5-16-2011)
§ 96.06 RELEASING BALLOONS WITHIN UNINCORPORATED DARE COUNTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, nonprofit organization, or
corporation to knowingly and intentionally release, participate in the release
of, intentionally cause to be released, to litter by abandoning and not
properly disposing of all waste material, any type of balloon inflated with a
liquid, air, or gas within the limits of unincorporated Dare County, any waters
within the zoning jurisdiction of unincorporated Dare County, or the beach and/
or dune areas within unincorporated Dare County. The following are not
violations of this section:
   (A)   Balloons released by a person on behalf of a governmental agency or
pursuant to a governmental contract for scientific or meteorological purposes.
   (B)   Hot air balloons that are recovered after launching.
   (C)   Balloons released inside a building or structure that do not make
their way into the open air.
(Adopted 7-16-2024) Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.07 EXCEPTIONS.
   These regulations shall not apply to those authorized items that are placed
along any public right-of-way of any street or road in conjunction with the
large item pick-up activities conducted by the Dare County Public Works
Department. This exception shall apply for a period of 3 days prior to any
scheduled large item pick-up for a community or village of unincorporated Dare
County. The placement of unauthorized items on any right-of-way shall be a
violation of this chapter ordinance and subject to the provision of §
96.99. A listing of items authorized for large item pick-up can be obtained
from the Dare County Public Works Department.
(Adopted 5-16-2011; amended 7-16-2024)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of §§
96.03 and/or
96.04 shall be notified in writing by Dare County personnel. Such notice shall
state the particulars of the violation and identify the items deposited on the
site, the date on which the violation occurred, and state that such person has
5 calendar days from the date of the notice in which to remove the items to the
Dare County landfill or other approved disposal site. If the person responsible
for the litter is a tenant, occupant or lessee of the property, then written
notice shall be provided to the property owner of record as listed on the Dare
County tax files. The property owner of record shall be responsible for the
proper disposal of the items deposited on the site or on any abutting right-of-
way of the property.
   (B)   Failure to correct the violation as described in the notice within the
5-day period shall result in removal of the litter by Dare County personnel for
proper disposal. A fine of $200 plus the cost of disposal and tipping fees
shall be charged for disposal of the litter by Dare County personnel and a bill
provided to the property owner of record for the site upon which the violation
occurred. Failure to reimburse Dare County within 30 calendar days shall
constitute a lien against the property upon which the violation occurred. The
lien shall be filed with the Dare County Tax Collector and collected in the
same manner as provided for the collection of ad valorem taxes. Each separate
violation shall constitute a separate offense and shall be treated accordingly
with disposal fines calculated for each separate offense.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of § 96.06 shall be subject to a
civil penalty in the amount of $250 to be recovered by Dare County in a civil
action in the nature of debt if the offender does not pay the penalty within 10
days after having been cited for violation of the section.
(Prior Code, § 96.04) (Ord. passed 7-20-1970; amended 5-16-2011; amended 7-16-
2024)
CHAPTER 97: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
97.01   Declaration of policy
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Powers and duties of the enforcing body
   
97.04   Prohibited acts
   
97.05   Exceptions
§ 97.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Board of Commissioners to
prevent unreasonably loud, disturbing or unusually excessive noise. It is the
intention of the Board of Commissioners to maintain a low noise level within
the county so as to preserve, protect and promote the public health, safety and
welfare and to foster convenience, peace and quiet within the county for its
inhabitants and transients alike. The Board of Commissioners finds that every
person is entitled to have noise levels maintained which are not detrimental
for life, health, and enjoyment of property and that unusually excessive and
unreasonable noise within the county affects and is a menace to the public
health, safety and welfare and the comfort of the people of the county.
(Prior Code, § 97.01) (Ord. passed 8-1-1988)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMON CARRIER. Any motor vehicle for hire by the public or any motor
vehicle part of a public transportation system.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration or similar action, but excluding demolition.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-way surfaces or similar
property.
   IMPULSIVE SOUND. Sound of short duration, usually less than 1 second, with
an abrupt onset and rapid decay. Examples of sources of impulsive sound include
explosions, drop forge impacts and discharge of firearms.
   MODIFIED EXHAUST SYSTEM. An exhaust system in which the original noise
abatement devices have been physically altered causing them to be less
effective in reducing noise or the original noise abatement devices have either
been removed or replaced by noise abatement devices which are not as effective
in reducing noise as their original devices, or devices have been added to the
original noise abatement devices such that noise levels are increased.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is propelled or drawn on land by a motor,
such as, but not limited to passenger cars, trucks, truck-trailers, semi-
trailers, campers, go-carts, amphibious craft on land, dune buggies or racing
vehicles, but not including motorcycles.
   MOTORBOAT. Any vessel which operates on water and which is propelled by a
motor, including, but not limited to boats, barges, amphibious craft, water-ski
towing devices, jet-skis and hover craft.
   MOTORCYCLE. An unenclosed motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the
operator and two or 3 wheels in contact with the ground, including, but not
limited to motor scooters, minibikes and mopeds.
   MUFFLER or SOUND DISSIPATIVE DEVICE. A device for abating the sound of
escaping gases of an internal combustion engine.
   NOISE. Any sound which annoys or disturbs humans or which causes or tends to
cause an adverse psychological or physiological effect on humans.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which endangers or injures the safety or health
of humans or animals, or annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal
sensitivities, or endangers or injures personal or real property.
   NOISE SENSITIVE ZONE. Any area within 200 feet from the property lines of
any school, church, nursing home, hospital or funeral home.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk or
alley or similar place which is owned or controlled by a governmental entity.
   PUBLIC SPACE. Any real property or structures thereon which are owned or
controlled by a governmental entity.
   PUBLIC WATERWAY. Any navigable waters not privately owned.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. A line along the ground surface, and its vertical
extension, which separates the real property owned by 1 person from that owned
by another person, but not including intrabuilding real property divisions.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. An area designated for any residential use under the
zoning ordinance of the county.
   WEEKDAY. Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday.
(Prior Code, § 97.02) (Ord. passed 8-1-1988)
§ 97.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE ENFORCING BODY.
   (A)   Powers of the Sheriff. In order to implement and enforce this chapter
effectively, the Sheriff of the county or his or her deputies shall have, in
addition to any other authority vested in him or her, the power to conduct
inspections:
      (1)   Upon presentation of credentials, enter and inspect any private
property or place, and inspect any report or records at any reasonable time
when granted permission by the owner, or by some other person with apparent
authority to act for the owner. When permission is refused or cannot be
obtained, a search warrant or other court order may be sought by the officer
from a court of competent jurisdiction upon showing of probable cause to
believe that a violation of this chapter may exist.
      (2)   Stop any motor vehicle, motorcycle or motorboat operated on a
public right-of-way, public space, or public waterway reasonably suspected of
violating any provision of this chapter, and reasonably test and inspect the
same at the site to determine whether a violation of this chapter has occurred.
   (B)   Duties of the Sheriff. In order to implement and enforce this chapter
effectively, the Sheriff or his or her deputies shall investigate and pursue
possible violations of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.03) (Ord. passed 8-1-1988)
§ 97.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Noise disturbances prohibited. No person shall make, continue or cause
to be made or continued, any noise disturbance. Noncommercial public speaking
and public assembly activities conducted on any public space or public right-
of-way shall be exempt from the operation of this section.
   (B)   Specific prohibitions. The following acts, among others, are declared
to be unreasonably loud, disturbing and unusually excessive noises in violation
of this chapter, but the enumeration shall not be exclusive:
      (1)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments and similar devices.
Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier or similar
device which produces, reproduces or amplifies sound:
         (a)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone;
         (b)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at 50 feet
from the device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public right-of-
way or public space, or in a motorboat or other vessel which operates on public
waters;
         (c)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier; or
         (d)   This section shall not apply to noncommercial spoken language
covered under division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Loudspeakers and public address systems. Using or operating for any
purpose any loudspeaker, public address system, or similar device such that the
sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or
within a noise sensitive zone; or between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
the following day on a public right-of-way or public space.
      (3)   Street sales. Offering for sale or selling anything by shouting or
outcry within any area of the county, except in a stadium or sports arena.
      (4)   Animals and birds. Owning, possessing or harboring any animal or
bird which frequently or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks
or makes other sound which create a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
      (5)   Loading and unloading. Loading, unloading, opening, closing or
other handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, or similar
objects between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day in such
a manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary or within a noise sensitive zone.
      (6)   Construction and demolition. Operating or permitting the operation
of any tools or equipment used in construction or demolition work:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day
on weekdays or at any time on weekends or holidays, such that the sound
therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary or within a noise sensitive zone, except for emergency work.
         (b)   This section shall not apply to the use of domestic power tools
subject to division (B)(12) below.
      (7)   Airport and aircraft operations. nothing in this section shall be
construed to prohibit, restrict, penalize, enjoin, or in any manner regulate
the movement of aircraft which are in all respects conducted in accordance
with, or pursuant to, applicable federal laws or regulations.
      (8)   Explosives, firearms, and similar devices. The use or firing of
explosives, firearms, firecrackers and other fireworks, or similar devices
which create impulsive sound so as to cause a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary or on a public space or right-of-way.
      (9)   Stationary nonemergency signaling devices.
         (a)   Sounding or permitting the sounding of any signal from any
stationary bell, chime, siren, whistle, or similar device, intended primarily
for nonemergency purposes, from any place, for more than 1 minute in any hourly
period.
         (b)   Devices used in conjunction with places of education and
religious worship shall be exempt from the operation of this provision.
      (10)   Emergency signaling devices.
         (a)   The intentional sounding or permitting the sounding outdoors of
any fire, burglar, or civil defense alarm, siren, whistle or similar stationary
emergency signaling device, except for emergency purposes or for testing, as
provided in division (b) below.
         (b)   Testing of a stationary emergency signaling device shall occur
at the same time of day each time such a test is performed, but not before 8:00
a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
      (11)   Noise sensitive zones. After being forbidden to do so, creating or
causing the creation of any sound within any noise sensitive zone designated
pursuant to division (B)(2) above, so as to disrupt the activities normally
conducted within the zone.
      (12)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the operation of any
mechanically powered saw, sander, drill, grinder, lawn or garden tools or
similar device used outdoors, in residential areas between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day so as to cause a noise disturbance across
a residential real property boundary.
      (13)   Motor vehicles, motorcycles and motorboats.
         (a)   Generally. No person shall operate a motor vehicle, motorcycle
or motorboat which causes noise disturbance across a real property boundary,
within a noise sensitive zone or on a public right-of-way, public space or
public waterway as a result of:
            1.   A defective or modified exhaust system;
            2.   Any unreasonably rapid acceleration, deceleration, engine
revving or tire squealing; or
            3.   Overloading or ill-repair which causes unusually excessive
grating, grinding, rattling or other noise.
         (b)   Repairs and testing. Repairing, rebuilding, modifying or testing
any motor vehicle, motorcycle or motorboat in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary or within a noise
sensitive zone.
         (c)   Horns and signaling devices of motor vehicles and motorcycles.
The sounding of any horn or signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, or
other vehicle on any street or public place of the county, except as a danger
warning; the creation by means of any such signaling device of any unreasonably
loud or harsh sound; the sounding of any such device for an unreasonable period
of time; the use of any horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine
exhaust; and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any
reason held up. Authorized emergency vehicles may use warning sounds.
      (14)   Engine exhausts. The discharge into the open air within the county
of the exhaust of any steam engine, gasoline engine, stationary internal
combustion engine, or other kind or type of engine, motorboat or motor vehicle,
except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom.
   (C)   Operation of a motorized off road recreational vehicle.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, the operation of a
motorized off road recreational vehicle in compliance with § 22-28.1 of the
Dare County Zoning Code shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 97.04) (Ord. passed 8-1-1988; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-1998; Am.
Ord. passed 5-4-2009)
§ 97.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Emergency exception. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
the emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the existence of
an emergency, or the emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
   (B)   Permit exception. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply for
activities described in a permit issued by the Chairperson of the Board of
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 97.05) (Ord. passed 8-1-1988)
CHAPTER 98: NUISANCES
Section
   
98.01   Policy
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Public nuisance conditions
   
98.04   Exclusions
   
98.05   Investigation and notice
   
98.06   Hearing
   
98.07   Appeal
   
98.08   Removal, abatement or remedy
   
98.09   Payment of cost
   
98.10   Nonexclusive remedy
   
98.11   Other standards
§ 98.01 POLICY.
   It is the policy of Dare County that public nuisances must be removed,
abated or remedied and that the cost or expense incurred shall be paid by the
person in default or constitute a lien upon the land or premises where the
public nuisance exists.
(Prior Code, § 98.01) (Ord. 92-3-9, passed 3-16-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-
2009)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Everything that is dangerous or prejudicial to the public health.
   OPEN STORAGE. Storage areas that are not buffered or screened by vegetation
or fencing.
   PERSON IN DEFAULT.
      (1)   The person, corporation or association which causes or allows a
public health nuisance to exist; or
      (2)   The owner of the land or premises where a public nuisance exists.
(Prior Code, § 98.02) (Ord. 92-3-9, passed 3-16-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-
2009)
§ 98.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE CONDITIONS.
   The following conditions on any lot or parcel of land shall be deemed to be
dangerous, noxious, detrimental and prejudicial to the public health and
general welfare and/or shall constitute a public nuisance:
   (A)   The presence or accumulations of animal or vegetable matter that is
offensive by virtue of odors or vapors or by the inhabitation therein of rats,
mice, snakes or vermin of any kind;
   (B)   The presence or accumulations of rubbish, junk, waste materials,
trash, garbage, refuse, fuel, hazardous materials or combustible materials in a
manner that represents a fire hazard or possible inhabitation therein of rats,
snakes, mice or other vermin;
   (C)   The presence or accumulation of stagnant water or other conditions
that may serve as breeding areas for mosquitoes and other disease-carrying
insects or other insect infestations not to include manmade ponds, ditches or
storm water retention basins;
   (D)   Open storage of abandoned, inoperable or discarded household items
including, but not limited to, refrigerators, stoves and other appliances;
household fixtures or furniture, machinery, or equipment, automobile parts and
tires. Any accumulation of discarded or used medical supplies in open places or
confined spaces;
   (E)   Any structure that has been condemned by the county Building Inspector
as unfit for human occupation in accordance with the State Building Code and as
otherwise provided by law;
   (F)   Household contents or portions of a building or structure remaining on
a lot or parcel of land after damage by fire, wind, water, erosion or any
combination thereof;
   (G)   Any unusable exposed motor vehicle or parts thereof, derelict or
dilapidated boats or parts thereof, camper trailers, mobile homes or
construction trailers in a junked or dilapidated condition that represents a
safety or health hazard due to the possible accumulation of rubbish, underbrush
or weeds around the vehicle, the presence of snakes, rats or other vermin, or
represents a potential entrapment threat or injury to persons coming in contact
therewith; and
   (H)   Abandoned or incomplete construction sites for which no valid building
permit exists or for which building permits have expired, or accumulations of
unusable building materials including concrete, steel, masonry, wood, glass,
wiring, plumbing supplies and other similar building materials.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2009)
§ 98.04 EXCLUSIONS.
   The following conditions and uses shall not be determined to represent
nuisance conditions.
   (A)   Storage of goods, materials or supplies on sites that are used for
commercial or industrial purposes consistent with any applicable zoning
regulations.
   (B)   Storage of boats and other equipment associated with marine salvage
activities.
   (C)   Storage of recyclable materials or goods, including compost bins.
   (D)   Storage of commercial fishing equipment or gear including crab pots
and nets.
   (E)   Motor vehicles or boats stored for re-use of parts so long as the
vehicles or boats are not accessible to the general public, do not represent a
potential entrapment threat or injury to persons coming in contact therewith,
or are located in a manner that restricts access to public or private rights-
of-way or navigable waterways.
   (F)   Storage of fuel, paint or other combustible or hazardous materials
consistent with all applicable fire and building codes.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2009)
§ 98.05 INVESTIGATION AND NOTICE.
   The County Planner, County Health Director, County Mosquito Control Officer
or other county official as designated by the County Manager or Dare County
Board of Commissioners, is delegated the authority to investigate alleged
public nuisances. These officials may work independently or collectively to
investigate alleged public nuisances depending on the nature of the situation.
These officials shall have the right to enter, at any reasonable time, any
premises for the purpose of making inspections or investigations as needed. If
in the opinion of the investigating officials after a visit to the site of the
alleged public nuisance, a public nuisance is determined to exist, the
investigating official(s) shall cause a written notice to be mailed by
certified mail in the United States Postal Service to the last known address of
the persons in whose name the property is listed for the payment of ad valorem
taxes in the records of the Dare County Tax Department or shall personally
serve written notice upon the persons in whose name the property is listed for
the payment of ad valorem taxes in the records of the Dare County Tax
Department. The notice shall contain information identifying the property and
the nature of the public nuisance and shall state that the addressee shall have
10 days from the mailing of the notice to abate or remedy the alleged public
nuisance or file notice of a request for a hearing. In the event an
investigating official determines that a public nuisance is an immediate
detriment to human safety or welfare, the official may take appropriate action
to abate the public nuisance without notice.
(Prior Code, § 98.03) (Ord. 92-3-9, passed 3-16-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-
2009)
§ 98.06 HEARING.
   In the event the person in default requests a hearing, the Board of
Commissioners shall be notified and the Board shall establish a date for a
hearing to be held before the entire Board. The person in default shall be
notified of the hearing date in writing. At the hearing, the Board shall
determine whether an actual public health nuisance exists.
(Prior Code, § 98.04) (Ord. 92-3-9, passed 3-16-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-
2009)
§ 98.07 APPEAL.
   The person in default shall have the right to appeal to the General Court of
Justice.
(Prior Code, § 98.05) (Ord. 92-3-9, passed 3-16-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-
2009)
§ 98.08 REMOVAL, ABATEMENT OR REMEDY.
   In the event the person in default files no request for hearing and fails to
remove, abate or remedy the public nuisance, or in the event the Board of
Commissioners determines after a hearing that an actual public nuisance exists,
then the investigating official(s) shall proceed to cause the removal,
abatement or remedy of the public nuisance. This includes the right to enter
any premises or property that has been determined to be a public nuisance for
the purposes of abating or remedying the public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 98.06) (Ord. 92-3-9, passed 3-16-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-
2009)
§ 98.09 PAYMENT OF COST.
   A statement of the cost of removing, abating or remedying the public
nuisance shall be mailed to the person in default or shall be personally served
to the person in default. This expense shall be within 10 days of receipt of
the statement. If not paid, the expense of the action shall be a lien upon the
land or premises where the public health nuisance existed.
(Prior Code, § 98.07) (Ord. 92-3-9, passed 3-16-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-
2009)
§ 98.10 NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   This chapter shall not be an exclusive remedy and shall in no way limit
other powers of the county or the Health Director.
(Prior Code, § 98.08) (Ord. 92-3-9, passed 3-16-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-18-
2009)
§ 98.11 OTHER STANDARDS.
   (A)   Any icebox, refrigerator or other container of any kind which has an
airtight snap lock or other device thereon and is in use in open areas shall be
crated, strapped or locked to such an extent that it is impossible for a child
to obtain access to any airtight compartment thereof. Snap locks or doors on
any discarded refrigerator, icebox or container shall be removed prior to
disposal.
   (B)   Any motor vehicle, recreational vehicle or other type of equipment
which is inoperable but is being actively restored by its lawful owner shall be
locked, enclosed or otherwise fashioned to such an extent that it is impossible
for a child to obtain access or be entrapped in such a vehicle.
(Ord. passed 5-18-2009)
CHAPTER 99: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Beaches
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Dune buggies, cars, trucks and the like prohibited in certain areas
during certain times
   
99.03   Surfing and surfing activities prohibited in certain areas
   
99.04   Exemptions from provisions
Camping
   
99.15   Definitions
   
99.16   Open air camping restricted
   
99.17   Commercial campgrounds and leased tent sites
Skateboard Parks
   
99.20   Definitions
   
99.21   Responsibility of owners
   
99.22   Notice
   
99.23   Sanctions
   
99.24   County immune from liability
BEACHES
§ 99.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SHORELINE. The point at which the waters of the Atlantic Ocean meet the sand
beaches abutting the ocean at any time.
   SURFING. The riding of a board, surfboard or other generally flat object,
whether solid or hollow, in the waters of the Atlantic Ocean.
   SURFING ACTIVITIES. Includes not only the riding of the prohibited object,
but the possession thereof.
(Prior Code, § 99.01) (Ord. passed 5-21-1973; Am. Ord. 8-18-1981)
§ 99.02 DUNE BUGGIES, CARS, TRUCKS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS
DURING CERTAIN TIMES.
   (A)   Between noon on Memorial Day and noon of the first day after Labor Day
of each year all dune buggies, beach buggies, jeeps, motorcycles, cars, trucks
and all other mechanically power driven vehicles, by whatever name called,
shall be prohibited on the foreshore or beach strand of the county lying
between Currituck County and the Town of Kill Devil Hills between the waters of
the Atlantic Ocean and the dune protection line described in this section.
   (B)   The following definitions shall apply in the enforcement of this
section:
      DUNE PROTECTION LINE shall mean a line drawn along the soundward side of
the base of all frontal, primary dunes or if there is no frontal, primary dune,
a line drawn parallel to and 100 feet soundward from the high water mark of the
Atlantic Ocean, but in no event closer to such high water mark than a line
drawn between the bases of the soundward side of the nearest frontal primary
dunes if within 400 feet of each other.
      FRONTAL PRIMARY DUNE shall mean the dune, whether natural or man-made,
lying closest to the ocean, and which generally primarily protects land areas
from inundation by ocean waters.
(Prior Code, § 99.02) (Ord. passed 7-5-1977) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 99.03 SURFING AND SURFING ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   Surfing and surfing activities shall be unlawful at all times in the
following areas:
      (1)   Area 1. In the Atlantic Ocean within 300 feet of any pier which
extends from the beach into the Atlantic Ocean.
      (2)   Area 2. All those areas lying landward of and abutting all the
other areas described in this section to a depth landward of 300 feet.
(Ord. passed 7-6-1987)
      (3)   Area 3. Reserved for future legislation.
      (4)   Area 4. Beginning at a point on the shoreline of the Atlantic Ocean
intersected by a line drawn at right angles to the shoreline from the
intersection of the north line of the property on which is located the KOA
Kampground with the west line of the lands of the U.S.A.; thence from the
beginning southerly along the shoreline 500 feet to a point; thence easterly at
right angles to the shoreline 3,000 feet; thence northerly parallel to the
shoreline 500 feet; thence westerly at right angles 3,000 feet to the beginning
(KOA).
      (5)   Area 5. Beginning at a point on the shoreline of the Atlantic Ocean
intersected by a line drawn at right angles to the shoreline from the
intersection of the north line of the property on which is located the Holiday
Campground with the west line of the lands of the U.S.A.; thence from the
beginning southerly along the shoreline 500 feet to a point; thence easterly at
right angles to the shoreline 3,000 feet; thence northerly parallel to the
shoreline, 500 feet; thence westerly at right angles 3,000 feet to the
beginning (Holiday Campground).
      (6)   Area 6. Reserved for future legislation.
      (7)   Area 7. Beginning on the shoreline of the Atlantic Ocean at the
point of intersection thereof by a line drawn 400 feet, at right angles,
parallel to and north of the north property line of the Cape Hatteras Court
property extended easterly to the shoreline; thence southerly along the
shoreline to a point intersected by an easterly extension of the southerly line
of the Cape Hatteras Navy Installation extended at right angles to the
shoreline; thence easterly at right angles to the shoreline 3,000 feet; thence
northerly parallel to the shoreline to a point which would be intersected by a
line drawn from the point of beginning easterly at right angles to the
shoreline; thence westerly at right angles to the shoreline 3,000 feet to the
beginning (Buxton Motels).
      (8)   Area 8. Reserved for future legislation.
      (9)   Area 9. Reserved for future legislation.
      (10)   Area 10. Beginning on the shoreline of the Atlantic Ocean at the
point of intersection thereof by a line drawn 400 feet, at right angles,
parallel to and north of the northeast property line of the Durants Motel
property extended southeasterly to the shoreline; thence southwesterly along
the shoreline to a point intersected by a southeasterly extension of the
southwest line of the Sea Gull Motel property extended at right angles to the
shoreline from the point of intersection thereof with the NPS N. Line; thence
southeasterly at right angles to the shoreline 3,000 feet; thence northeasterly
parallel to the shoreline 1,000 feet; thence northwesterly at right angles to
the shoreline 3,000 feet to the beginning point (Hatteras Motels).
(Ord. passed 5-21-1973; Am. Ord. passed 8-18-1981)
   (B)   Surfing and surfing activities shall be unlawful in the following
areas during the period from September 15 to April 30, between sunrise and
sunset, and during the period from May 1 to September 14, between the hours of
sunrise and 10:00 a.m. and the hours of 4:00 p.m. and sunset: Area 1. Bounded
on the south by an elongation of the north line of the Town of Kill Devil Hills
into the Atlantic Ocean, and bounded on the north by an elongation of the north
line of Seacrest Village into the Atlantic Ocean.
(Prior Code, § 99.03) Penalty, see
§ 10.99  
§ 99.04 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The following exemptions shall apply in the enforcement of
§ 99.02:
      (1)   Exemption No. 1. The prohibitions contained in
§ 99.02 shall not apply to the operation of motor vehicles or automotive
equipment belonging to and used and operated by commercial fishermen, only
while and as such fishermen are actually engaged in the fishing or setting of
nets or seines from or in the Atlantic Ocean; provided, that nothing in this
division shall be construed to authorize, permit or allow commercial fishermen
or any other persons to drive across, enter upon or conduct their fishing
operations on any private property other than that owned or leased by them,
except by permission of the owners, in the above-described area.
      (2)   Exemption No. II. The prohibitions contained in
§ 99.02 shall not apply to the operation of motor vehicles on private property
by the owners of such property or members of their immediate family or by bona
fide guests with the written permission of such owner, while not on any portion
of the public domain. This exemption does not apply to other ordinances, laws
or regulations.
      (3)   Exemption No. III. The prohibitions contained in
§ 99.02 shall not apply to motor vehicles actually engaged in the repair,
maintenance or construction of piers, jetties or sand dunes when within 200
feet of the designated facility and while under the supervision or control of
the owner of the designated facility.
      (4)   Exemptions No. IV. The prohibitions contained in
§ 99.02 shall not apply to emergency or law enforcement vehicles of the county,
any municipality within the county, the state or the United States of America,
while such vehicles are actually engaged in emergencies or law enforcement.
(Ord. passed 7-5-1977)
   (B)   Notwithstanding
§ 99.03, rubber floats, inner tubes, soft rafts and other similar objects shall
not be prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 99.04)
CAMPING
§ 99.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FAMILY. Persons related by blood or marriage.
   NIGHT. That period of time each day from 1 hour after sunset until 1 hour
before sunrise.
   OPEN AIR CAMPING.  Any act of sleeping at night in the open air. The term
CAMPING IN THE OPEN AIR includes, but is not limited to, sleeping out of doors
in a tent, sleeping bag, blanket, hammock.
(Prior Code, § 99.15) (Ord. passed 5-8-1972; Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
§ 99.16 OPEN AIR CAMPING RESTRICTED.
   No person shall engage in the act of open air camping in the unincorporated
portions of Dare County, except as follows:
   (A)   Open air camping is permitted on private property which is owned by
the person engaged in the act of open air camping or by someone in the family
of the person engaged in open air camping. This exception applies to all
members of the group or party of which the owner or a member of the family of
the owner is a member.
(Prior Code, § 99.16) (Ord. passed 5-8-1972; Ord. passed 8-20-2018) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 99.17 COMMERCIAL CAMPGROUNDS AND LEASED TENT SITES.
   These regulations do not authorize the use of private property for
commercial use as campgrounds or the leasing of tent sites or campsites whereby
an individual or group of individuals pay to lease an area for camping in the
open air. This type of commercial activity is regulated by the Dare County
Zoning Ordinance and subject to review and approval as established by that
ordinance.
(Ord. passed 8-20-2018)
SKATEBOARD PARKS
§ 99.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS RECREATIONAL ACTIVITY. Skateboarding, inline skating or freestyle
bicycling.
   INHERENT RISK. Those dangers or conditions that are characteristic of,
intrinsic to, or an integral part of skateboarding, inline skating and
freestyle bicycling.
   SKATEBOARD PARKS. A facility established on county-owned property which is
designed for the purpose of engaging in hazardous recreational activities and
which is specifically designated by the county for such use, or any such
facility which is operated by the county and designated by the county for such
use that is not established on county-owned property.
(Res. passed 12-4-2004)
§ 99.21 RESPONSIBILITY OF USERS.
   (A)   All users of a skateboard park shall wear a helmet, elbow pads and
kneepads at all times while engaging in hazardous recreational activities.
   (B)   Any person who observes, participates in or assists in hazardous
recreational activities assumes the known or unknown inherent risks in these
activities, irrespective of age, and is legally responsible for all damages,
injury or death to himself or herself or other persons or property that result
from these activities.
   (C)   While engaged in hazardous recreational activities, irrespective of
where such activities occur, a participant is responsible for doing all of the
following:
      (1)   Acting within the limits of his or her ability and the purpose and
design of the equipment used.
      (2)   Maintaining control of his or her person and equipment used.
      (3)   Refraining from acting in any manner that may cause or contribute
to death or injury of himself or herself or other persons or property.
   (D)   Failure to comply with the requirements of division (C) above shall
constitute negligence.
(Res. passed 12-4-2004)
§ 99.22 NOTICE.
   (A)   The county shall post signs at all skateboard parks that afford
reasonable notice to all users of the following:
      (1)   Any person engaged in a hazardous recreational activity at the
skateboard park must wear a helmet, elbow pads and kneepads at all times;
      (2)   The county does not provide regular supervision of the skateboard
park;
      (3)   Users of the skateboard park assume all risks associated with the
use of the skateboard park; and
      (4)   Failure to comply with these requirements for use may subject the
violator to sanctions as provided for under this subchapter.
   (B)   The signs required herein shall be posted at all skateboard parks in
prominent locations that may be readily viewed by users of the skateboard
parks.
(Res. passed 12-4-2004)
§ 99.23 SANCTIONS.
   In addition to any other penalties provided for in this code of ordinances,
any person who violates the provisions of this subchapter may be subject to
sanctions imposed by the Dare County Department of Parks and Recreation
including, but not limited to, suspension or permanent revocation of the
privilege to use the skateboard park and assessment for the full costs of any
damages to the skateboard park caused by the person.
(Res. passed 12-4-2004)
§ 99.24 COUNTY IMMUNE FROM LIABILITY.
   The county, including its officials, employees and agents, shall not be
liable to any person who voluntarily participates in hazardous recreational
activities for any damage or injury to property or persons that arises out of
the person’s participation in the activity and that takes place at a skateboard
park.
(Res. passed 12-4-2004)
CHAPTER 100: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Processions and Assemblages
   
100.01   Definition
   
100.02   Procession or assemblage to be accompanied by Sheriff
   
100.03   Right-of-way
   
100.04   Breaking through procession or assemblage unlawful
Street Address System
   
100.15   Establishment of system
   
100.16   Determination of street addresses
   
100.17   Responsibility for identification
   
100.18   Placement of street address numbers and letters
   
100.19   Record of street addresses
   
100.20   Street name change
Golf Carts on Streets and Roads in Specified Areas of Unincorporated Dare
County
   
100.30   Operation of golf carts
   
100.31   Definitions
   
100.32   Age restriction
   
100.33   Hours of operation
   
100.34   Method of operation
 
   
100.99   Penalty
PROCESSIONS AND ASSEMBLAGES
§ 100.01 DEFINITION.
   A procession or assemblage for purposes of this subchapter shall be any
vehicle or vehicles operated on the public highways for which application shall
have been made to the Sheriff of Dare County and license issued by the Sheriff
for any specific purpose.
(Prior Code, § 100.01) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986)
§ 100.02 PROCESSION OR ASSEMBLAGE TO BE ACCOMPANIED BY SHERIFF.
   A procession or assemblage licensed hereunder shall be accompanied by the
Sheriff or 1 or more Sheriff’s Deputies in 1 or more Sheriff’s vehicles with
blue lights flashing; additionally the vehicles in the procession or assemblage
shall have headlights turned on.
(Prior Code, § 100.02) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986)
§ 100.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   A procession or assemblage when duly licensed, lighted and accompanied as
required shall have the right-of-way for use of the highways regardless of any
highway or traffic sign to the contrary except as set out in
§ 100.04.
(Prior Code, § 100.03) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986)
§ 100.04 BREAKING THROUGH PROCESSION OR ASSEMBLAGE UNLAWFUL.
   Except for fire, emergency and all enforcement vehicles exhibiting red or
blue lighting and with siren engaged, it shall be unlawful for any person to
break through a licensed procession or assemblage by passing from the rear or
otherwise interfering with the continuity of the procession or assemblage
unless the passing occurs on a highway of more than 2 lanes or is pursuant to
direction of the Sheriff or a deputy.
(Prior Code, § 100.04) (Ord. passed 12-1-1986)
STREET ADDRESS SYSTEM
§ 100.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM.
   There is hereby established a uniform street address system by which all
vacant parcels, lots and tracts of land fronting on all streets, avenues and
public or private rights-of-way in the county and all houses and other
buildings shall be numbered. The Board of Commissioners shall cause a survey of
vacant property and principal structures to be made and completed, and a street
address assigned to each.
(Prior Code, § 100.15) (Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 100.16 DETERMINATION OF STREET ADDRESSES.
   (A)   Street address numbers shall be assigned at 100-foot intervals for
undeveloped land and as necessary to provide an orderly sequence of numerical
identification for existing structures or lots already recorded.
   (B)   Numbers shall be assigned in alternating patterns of even and odd
numerals on opposite sides of streets, avenues and public or private rights-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 100.16) (Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 100.17 RESPONSIBILITY FOR IDENTIFICATION.
   When the survey has been completed and each principal structure has been
assigned its respective number, the owner shall place or cause to be placed
upon each principal structure owned by him or her, the numbers and letters
assigned under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 100.17) (Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 100.18 PLACEMENT OF STREET ADDRESS NUMBERS AND LETTERS.
   (A)   Street address numbers and letters when required, shall be placed on
existing structures within 180 days of receiving notice of assigned street
address. The numbers, and letters if required, shall be procured and paid for
by the owner. If the proper numbers and letters are not placed on an existing
principal structure within 180 days of receiving notice of assigned street
address, it shall be considered a violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   The numbers, and letters when required, shall be conspicuously placed
on the side of the structure facing the street or between the structure and the
street so as to be seen plainly from the street. Whenever any structure is
situated more than 100 feet from the street, the numbers shall be placed near
the street next to the walk, driveway or entrance to such structure.
   (C)   The numbers and letters when required, shall be at least 3 inches in
height and contrast in color with their background.
   (D)   Whenever any house, building or structure is to be erected or located
in the county after the establishment of the street address ordinance, in order
to preserve the continuity and uniformity of the street address system, it
shall be the duty of the owner to procure the correct numbers, and letters when
required, and to fasten them upon such structure as provided by this
subchapter. No occupancy permit shall be issued for any construction, repair,
alteration or modification until the owner has ascertained the official address
of the premises. Final approval of any structure erected, repaired, altered or
modified after the effective date of this subchapter shall be withheld by the
building inspector until permanent and proper numbers, and letters when
required, have been affixed to such structure.
(Prior Code, § 100.18) (Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 100.19 RECORD OF STREET ADDRESSES.
   For the purpose of facilitating correct numbering, address maps of all
streets, avenues, and public or private rights-of-way within the county showing
the proper numbers for all structures and property shall be kept on file by the
Planning Board Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 100.19) (Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
§ 100.20 STREET NAME CHANGE.
   Upon the occurrence of an unnamed street or a conflict concerning street
name duplication or phonetically similar street names, then the Dare County
Board of Commissioners shall make those adjustments and assign new street names
as shall be necessary to ensure the orderly identification of streets and
structures in Dare County.
(Prior Code, § 100.20) (Ord. passed 1-8-1990)
GOLF CARTS ON STREETS AND ROADS IN SPECIFIED AREAS OF UNINCORPORATED DARE
COUNTY
§ 100.30 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Golf carts may be operated on all streets and roads in Hatteras
village west of and including Austin Road and Austin Lane where the speed limit
is 35 m.p.h. or less. (Adopted 7-19-2010)
   (B)   Golf carts may be operated on Bayview Drive and First Street in Stumpy
Point village where the speed limits is 35 m.p.h. or less. (Adopted 4-15-2011)
   (C)   Golf carts may be operated in the Village of Avon on the followings
streets where the speed limit is 35 m.p.h. or less:
      (1)   Harbor Road west of North End Road and the streets connected to
Harbor Road located west of North End Road;
      (2)   The following streets and streets connected to the following
streets: North End Road, McMullen Road, Reef Drive, Old Main Road and Williams
Road. (Adopted 12-2-2013)
   (D)   Golf carts may be operated in Waves village in the St. Waves
subdivision on Sea Vista Court and Sea Vista Drive where the speed limit is 35
m.p.h. or less. (Adopted 8-1-2016)
   (E)   Golf carts may be operated in Buxton village on the following streets
where the speed limit is 35 m.p.h. or less: Old Lighthouse Road, Cape Point
Way, Diamond Shoals Drive, Buxton Back Road, Dippin Vat Road, Cross Way Road,
Lost Tree Trail, Rocky Rollinson Road, Webb Lane, Middle Ridge Trail, Crooked
Ridge Trail, and Light Plant Road.
   (F)   In no instance shall golf carts operate on NC 12 or traverse NC 12 on
Hatteras Island east of Austin Lane in Hatteras village. (Ord. passed 8-20-
2018)
   (G)   Golf carts may be operated in Wanchese village on the following
streets where the speed limit is 35 m.p.h. or less:
      (1)   Baumtown Road;
      (2)   Mill Landing Road and any street connected to Mill Landing Road;
      (3)   Old Wharf Road and any street connected to Old Wharf Road;
      (4)   Pugh Road and any street connected to Pugh Road;
      (5)   ER Daniels Road and any street connected to ER Daniels Road;
      (6)   Hooker Road and any street connected to Hooker Road;
      (7)   Sawyer Road and any street connected to Sawyer Road;
   This does not include any private lanes or easements that are not dedicated
to public use or assigned a NC or secondary road number. (Ord. passed 11-19-
2018)
   (H)   Golf carts may be operated in the residential sections of Martin's
Point Subdivision.
   (I)   Golf carts may be operated on the following streets in Manns Harbor:
      (1)   Mashoes Road;
      (2)   Harbor Road;
      (3)   Old Ferry Dock Road;
      (4)   Preston Twiford Road;
      (5)   Ina Waterfield Road;
      (6)   Croatan Way;
      (7)   Old Manns Harbor;
      (8)   Highland Drive;
      (9)   Shipyard Road; and
      (10)   Hassell Road.
(Ord. passed 11-19-2018; Am. Ord. passed 1-22-2019) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed and manufactured for operation on a golf
course for sporting or recreational purposes and that is not capable of
exceeding speeds of 20 m.p.h.
(Adopted 7-19-2010)
Statutory reference:
   Golf cart defined, see G.S. § 20-4.01.
§ 100.32 AGE RESTRICTION.
   No person less than the age of 16 may operate a golf cart on the streets of
a specified area as authorized under §
100.30.
(Adopted 7-19-2010) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.33 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The operation of golf carts in those areas specified in §
100.30 shall be lawful during the ours of 7:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. eastern
standard time and 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. eastern (daylight) savings time until
October 1 and from 6:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. until the end of eastern (daylight)
savings time.
(Adopted 7-19-2010) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.34 METHOD OF OPERATION.
   All persons operating golf carts as authorized in §
100.30 shall do so in a responsible and safe manner and shall obey all traffic
safety laws and traffic control signage.
(Adopted 7-19-2010) Penalty, see §
100.99
§ 100.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is otherwise provided shall be punished as provided in
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
100.17 or
100.18, or failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with same, shall, upon
conviction be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine not to exceed $50
or imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, and each day that any of the provisions
of those sections are violated shall constitute a separate offense as provided
in G.S. § 14-4. Notwithstanding any other penalties imposed by this division
(B), the county may institute a civil action against the violation thereof
seeking enforcement by appropriate applicable remedy. The offender shall be
subject to a civil debt of $150 per day in addition to any other penalties. No
such civil penalty shall be assessed until the person alleged to be in
violation has been notified of the violation. Each day of the continuing
violation shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   Any person operating a golf cart in violation of §§
100.30 through
100.34 shall be guilty of a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined $50 for each
violation.
(Prior Code, § 100.99) (Ord. passed 1-8-1990; amended 7-19-2010)
CHAPTER 101: BEACH FIRES IN DUCK FIRE DISTRICT
Section
   
101.01   Definitions
   
101.02   Application of chapter
   
101.03   Beach fires
   
101.04   Other open burning
   
101.05   Violations
§ 101.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DUCK FIRE DISTRICT. That certain geographical area generally known as Duck
lying between the northernmost limits of the Town of Southern Shores and the
Dare-Currituck County line and bounded on the east by the Atlantic Ocean and on
the west by the Currituck Sound.
   OCEAN BEACH. The land between the mean low water mark and the primary dunes
(the dunes closest to the ocean).
   SOUND BEACH. The land between the mean low water mark and the private
property line.
(Prior Code, § 101.01) (Ord. passed 3-16-1998)
§ 101.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply to the Duck Fire District, as defined in
§ 101.01 above.
(Prior Code, § 101.02) (Ord. passed 3-16-1998)
§ 101.03 BEACH FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to start or set a fire on the ocean or
sound beaches, as defined in
§ 101.01 above.
(Prior Code, § 101.03) (Ord. passed 3-16-1998)
§ 101.04 OTHER OPEN BURNING.
   Other open burning shall require a permit and will be regulated as provided
by North Carolina law.
(Prior Code, § 101.04) (Ord. passed 3-16-1998)
§ 101.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor as provided by G.S. § 14-4.
(Prior Code, § 101.05) (Ord. passed 3-16-1998)
CHAPTER 102: FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNICS
Section
   
102.01   General provisions
§ 102.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for
any person or entity to sell, possess, use ignite or explode any firecracker,
torpedo, sky rocket, sparkler, glow worm or other substance or device that
contains any explosive or flammable compound or substance, and is intended or
commonly known as fireworks and which explodes, rises into the air or travels
laterally, fires projectiles or discharges sparks into the air, including those
items excepted from the provisions of G.S. § 14-414.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable only upon Hatteras
Island and shall not be applicable to any organization or group of individuals
which has been granted a permit by the Dare County Board of Commissioners for
the public or private display of fireworks or pyrotechnics, provided that such
fireworks are stored, handled, transported and used in compliance with the
terms and conditions of such permit.
   (C)   Any person requesting a permit from the Dare County Board of
Commissioners as described in division (B) above shall submit a written
application to the County Manager or his designee at least 30 days prior to the
date of the requested activity. Such application shall contain at a minimum the
following information:
      (1)   A letter or original certificate from the insurance company of the
person applying for the fireworks display permit certifying that liability
insurance in a minimum of $1,000,000 is in force at the time and date of the
fireworks display and will cover damage to persons and/or property at and in
the vicinity of the area of the fireworks display.
      (2)   A diagram of the area showing where the display discharge area will
be and its relationship and distance to the nearest structures, power or
telephone lines and highways. Such diagram shall also include the specific
location of the fireworks to be discharged.
      (3)   The name of the organization sponsoring the display, if any,
together with the names of the persons actually in charge of the display.
      (4)   The manner and place of storage of such fireworks prior to the
fireworks display.
      (5)   The specific number and types of fireworks to be discharged.
      (6)   The date and time of day at which the display is to be held.
      (7)   A statement of the name, ages, experience, addresses and home and
business telephone numbers of all persons who are to participate in the actual
discharge of the fireworks.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application in proper form, the county shall
request the Fire Department in the area where the display is requested to make
an inspection of the proposed site to ensure that all provisions of this
section are met.
   (E)   All persons involved in discharging such fireworks shall be at least
21 years of age and licensed or approved in accordance with applicable
statutes, rules and regulations. Any person assisting with the handling or
discharge of the fireworks, but not directly involved in the discharge of
fireworks, shall be at least 18 years of age.
   (F)   If the Fire Department is required to provide a stand-by vehicle or
other service, the applicant shall pay the cost of such service. Payment for
such service shall be made no later than 10 days prior to the date of the
scheduled display.
   (G)   The Fire Chief of the Fire Department in the area where the display is
intended or his/her authorized designee is authorized to cancel the display if
the requirements of this section are not met by the applicant, weather
conditions are not favorable or in the event of other circumstances which the
Fire Chief or his/her designee deems to create a hazard for the public.
   (H)   County may charge a permit fee pursuant to the schedule of fees
adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners. Any permit fees paid for a
fireworks display are nonrefundable.
   (I)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the sale, possession,
transportation or use of shells or cartridges used as ammunition for firearms
in an otherwise legal manner or signal flares used in the event of an
emergency.
   (J)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a Class 3 misdemeanor and shall be fined $250.
(Ord. passed 3-19-07)
CHAPTER 103: ABANDONED VESSELS
Section
   
103.01   Application of provisions
   
103.02   Definitions
   
103.03   Prohibition
   
103.04   Exceptions
   
103.05   Removal of abandoned vessels
   
103.06   Notice of removal
   
103.07   Appeal and hearing procedures
§ 103.01 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The regulations set out in this chapter shall apply to navigable waters
within the unincorporated jurisdiction of Dare County.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2015)
§ 103.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VESSEL.
      (1)   A vessel that is moored, anchored, or otherwise located for more
than 30 consecutive days in any 180 consecutive-day period without permission
of the dock owner, marina owner, boat slip owner, or property owner whereby the
vessel is located.
      (2)   A vessel that is in danger of sinking, has sunk, is resting on the
bottom, or is located such that it is a hazard to navigation or is in immediate
danger to other vessels.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. A person, organization, or legal entity that is
identified by county officials as the party responsible for an abandoned
vessel.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2015)
§ 103.03 PROHIBITION.
   The abandonment of vessels in navigable waters within the jurisdiction of
unincorporated Dare County is expressly prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2015)
§ 103.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Shipwrecks, vessels, cargoes, tackle and other underwater archeological
remains that have been in place for more than 10 years shall not be considered
abandoned vessels and shall not be removed under the provisions of this section
without the approval of the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources,
which is the legal custodian of these properties pursuant to G.S. §§ 121-22 and
121-23.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2015)
§ 103.05 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED VESSELS.
   The county may remove and dispose of any abandoned vessel found to be in
violation of this chapter according to the procedures set forth in G.S. § 153A-
132.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2015)
§ 103.06 NOTICE OF REMOVAL.
   The county shall give notice to the responsible party as required by G.S. §
20-219.11(a) and (b).
(Ord. passed 6-17-2015)
§ 103.07 APPEAL AND HEARING PROCEDURES.
   An appeal of an abandoned vessel determination can be filed with the Dare
County Planning Director. Such appeal shall be filed in writing within 10 days
of the determination issued by the Planning Director and shall be acted upon by
the Board of Adjustment. Upon filing of a written appeal request, a hearing
date in front of the Board of Adjustment shall be scheduled. Any appeal filed
shall be processed according to the quasi-judicial procedures for appeals set
forth in §
152.11 of the Dare County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   ADULT BUSINESSES
      
113.   INTERNET-BASED PROPERTY TAX CERTIFICATIONS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
Editor’s note:
   This chapter is reserved for future legislation regulating businesses.
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Franchise required
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM (CATV). A system of antennae, coaxial
cables, wires, wave guides or other conductors, equipment or facility
designated, constructed or used primarily for the interception and receipt of
television or radio signals, directly or indirectly off the air, and the
distribution or transmission of the signals by means of cables or other similar
devices to subscribers.
(Prior Code, § 111.01) (Ord. passed 4-6-1981)
§ 111.02 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the construction, operation
or maintenance of a CATV system in the unincorporated areas of the county
unless such person or the person for whom such action is being taken shall have
first obtained and shall currently hold a valid franchise granted by the Board
of Commissioners. It shall also be unlawful for any person to provide a CATV
service in the unincorporated areas of the county unless the person shall have
first obtained and does currently hold a valid franchise granted pursuant to
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.02) (Ord. passed 4-6-1981) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
CHAPTER 112: ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Findings
   
112.02   Prohibitions
   
112.03   Definitions
§ 112.01 FINDINGS.
   After reviewing various studies, including the US Attorney General’s
Commission on Pornography (1986), The Summary of Studies Relating to Secondary
Effects of Adult Businesses, Garden Grove, CA (1991), The Regulation of Adult
Establishments in North Carolina (1996) on the secondary impacts of adult
businesses, the Dare County Board of Commissioners does hereby find:
   (A)   Businesses may want to open within the unincorporated portions of Dare
County where books, magazines, motion pictures, prints, photographs, video
cassettes, periodicals, records, novelties and/or devises that depict,
illustrate, describe or relate to specified sexual activities are displayed,
exhibited, possessed, distributed or sold.
   (B)   Businesses may want to open within the unincorporated portions of Dare
County:
      (1)   Where the superficial tissues of one person are manipulated,
rubbed, stroked, kneaded or tapped by another person, who is not a licensed
medical professional, accompanied by the display or exposure of specified
anatomical areas as defined hereinafter.
      (2)   Where entertainers, employees, escorts, or other individuals as
defined hereinafter, perform or are presented while displaying or exposing any
specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   Where straddle dancing as defined hereinafter occurs.
   (C)   The activities described in divisions (A) and (B) are subject to
regulation by Dare County in the interest of public health, safety, and general
welfare of the residents and visitors of Dare County.
   (D)   There is a direct relationship between the display or depiction of
specified anatomical areas and an increase in criminal activities, disturbances
of the peace and the good order of the county. The concurrence of these
activities is hazardous to the public health, safety and welfare of the persons
in attendance and tends to depreciate the value of neighboring and adjoining
properties and harm the economic welfare of the county as a whole. These
secondary impacts are adverse to the quality of life, economic livelihood, and
the overall community environment of Dare County.
   (E)   When the activities in divisions (A) and (B) are presented in
businesses, other activities that are illegal or unhealthy tend to accompany
them, concentrate around them, and be aggravated by them. Such other activities
include but are not limited to prostitution; solicitation for prostitution;
lewd and lascivious behavior; possession, distribution, and transportation of
obscene materials; sale or possession of controlled substances; and violent
crimes against persons and property.
   (F)   When the activities in divisions (A) and (B) are present in
businesses, they tend to blight neighborhoods, adversely affect neighboring
businesses, lower property values, foster an atmosphere that promotes crime,
and ultimately lead other residents and commercial establishments to relocate.
   (G)   Physical contact within businesses at which the activities described
in divisions (A) and (B) occur between employees exhibiting specified
anatomical areas and customers poses a threat to the health of both and may
lead to the spread of communicable diseases and social diseases.
   (H)   The concern over the spread of communicable diseases and social
diseases is a legitimate health concern of the county which demands the
regulation of adult businesses in order to protect the public health, safety
and welfare, of the citizens and visitors of the county.
   (I)   The ownership and/or the management of an extensive amount of land in
the county by public agencies results in a unique environment that resembles a
national park or federal reserve. The Alligator River national Wildlife Refuge,
the Navy bombing range, the Fort Raleigh/Lost Colony/Elizabethan Gardens
complex, the NC Seafood Industrial Park in Wanchese, the Jockey's Ridge State
Park, the Wright Brothers National Monument, the Cape Hatteras National
Seashore, the Pea Island Wildlife Refuge, the Buxton Woods Coastal Preserve,
the Buxton and Oregon Inlet Coast Guard bases, the US Army Corps of Engineers
Research Pier in Duck, the Kitty Hawk Woods Coastal Reserve, and the Nags Head
Woods/Nature Conservancy Reserve combine to place almost 80% of the land area
of Dare County into public ownership. Additional public lands are also managed
by the Dare County Board of Education with school campuses located in Kitty
Hawk, Kill Devil Hill, Buxton, and Manteo. The remaining 20% of the land area
in private ownership must accommodate every other residential, commercial, and
industrial land use and therefore land zoned for adult businesses internal and
external to Dare County must serve the needs of all of the county. The Hampton
Roads metropolitan area, northeastern North Carolina, and the incorporated
areas of the county provide sufficient access to adult-oriented businesses for
the residents of unincorporated Dare County.
   (J)   Competition for the use of the existing privately owned land in the
county is so keen that the use of the land by a business that historically
generates negative cumulative and secondary impacts is considered a non-
essential land use. Therefore, other land uses that do not generate negative
cumulative and secondary impacts are a higher priority for the land use
allotment and necessitates that adult businesses be viewed from an umbrella or
regional perspective.
(Prior Code, § 112.01) (Ord. passed 7-6-1999)
§ 112.02 PROHIBITIONS ON ADULT BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Based on the items established in
§ 112.01, Dare County finds that those individuals who desire to purchase,
lease, or sell those items or services listed in
§ 112.01(A) or individuals who wish to participate in activities listed in
§ 112.01(B) have reasonable alternative avenues available to do so including
but not limited to:
      (1)   Access to those items and services within the immediate vicinity of
the unincorporated portions of Dare County which permit the sale and
distribution of these types of items and services;
      (2)   Access to those items and services within the regional vicinity of
the unincorporated portions of Dare County, including locations in
unincorporated Currituck County, North Carolina, Elizabeth City, North
Carolina, and the incorporated portions of Tidewater Virginia;
      (3)   Access to cable television, including premium channels, pay-per-
view channels and adult channels;
      (4)   Access to satellite dish transmissions;
      (5)   Internet access;
      (6)   Telephone access;
      (7)   Access to on-line computer services;
      (8)   Access to these materials via mail and other delivery services.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the remaining sections of this ordinance, Dare County
expressly prohibits, anywhere within the unincorporated portions of Dare
County, the establishment and operation of an adult business as defined
hereinafter including, but not limited to adult cabarets, adult theaters, adult
motels, sexual encounter centers, massage businesses and other similar adult
businesses.
   (C)   This section will apply regardless of any conflict with any other
section of the Dare County Code, except
§ 10.07.
(Prior Code, § 112.02) (Ord. passed 7-6-1999)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE is defined as a bookstore:
      (1)   Which receives a majority of its gross income during any calendar
month from the sale or rental of publications (including books, magazines,
other periodicals, videotapes, compact discs, other photographic, electronic,
magnetic, digital or other imaging medium) which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined in this
section; or
      (2)   Having as a preponderance (either in terms of the weight and
importance of the material or in terms of greater volume of magazines) of its
publications (including books, magazines, other periodicals, videotapes,
compact discs, other photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other
imaging medium) which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, as defined in this section; or
      (3)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for use in
connection with “specified sexual activities.”
   ADULT BUSINESS. Any business activity, club, or other establishment (public
or private) which permits any person, employee, patron or guest on its premises
to exhibit any specified anatomical area before any other person or persons.
This term shall include the terms “adult establishment,” “sexually oriented
business,” “adult entertainment establishment.”
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or other commercial
establishment that regularly features, exhibits or displays as 1 of its
principal business purposes:
      (1)   Go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, nude or semi-nude
entertainers, male or female impersonators, private models or similar
entertainers; or
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration,
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions that
depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as
one of its principal business purposes;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 10 hours; or
      (3)   Allows tenants or occupants of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than 10 hours.
   ADULT THEATER. An establishment which consists of an enclosed building, or a
portion or part of an enclosed building, or an open-air area used for viewing
by persons of films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which have as their primary or dominant theme
matters depicting, illustrating or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas. “Adult arcades,” “adult motels” and “adult booths,”
“adult mini motion,” “adult motion theaters” are included within the definition
of ADULT THEATER.
   EMPLOYEE. A person who works or performs or provides services in an adult
business, irrespective of whether the person is paid a salary or wage by the
owner or manager of the premises, provided the person has a substantial or
consistent relationship with the business of providing adult entertainment. The
term EMPLOYEE includes, but is not limited to, performers, models, managers,
assistant managers, stockpersons, tellers and operators.
   ENTERTAINER. Any person who provides entertainment within or at an adult
business, whether or not a fee is charged or accepted for entertainment and
whether or not entertainment is provided by that person as an employee or an
independent contractor.
   ESCORT. A person who for tips or any other form of consideration agrees or
offers to act as a date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENT. A person or business that furnishes, offers to furnish or
advertises to furnish escorts as one of its principal business purpose for a
fee, tip or other consideration.
   LICENSEE. Any person whose application for an adult business has been
granted and who owns, operates or controls the establishment.
   OPERATOR. Any person who engages in or performs any activity which is
necessary to or which facilitates the operation of an adult business,
including, but not limited to, the licensee, manager, owner, doorman,
bartender, disc jockey, sales clerk, ticket taker, movie projectionist or
supervisor.
   MASSAGE. Any manipulation of body muscle or tissue by rubbing, stroking,
kneading or tapping, by hand or mechanical device.
   MASSAGE BUSINESS. Any establishment or business wherein massage is
practiced, including establishments commonly known as health clubs, physical
culture studios, massage studios or massage parlors. No provision of this
section, however, shall apply to any bona fide therapeutic massage service
provided by a licensed or registered medical professional or other person
certified by a state or nationally recognized organization; nor shall this
section apply to any private or public fitness center or nonprofit community
recreational fitness and service organizational, either of which provides
massage therapy as a service incidental to the operation of a fitness center.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of a human anus, male genitals or female genitals;
or
      (2)   A state of dress that fails to opaquely cover a human anus, male
genitals or female genitals.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, offers for any form or consideration, physical
contact, sexual communications, engagements, relationships or activities,
whether on premises or off premises, between male and female persons and/or
persons of the same sex when 1 or more of the persons is in a state of nudity
or semi-nude. This term shall also include escort agency or service, private
model or photography studio, massage business or any other similar adult
business, as defined herein.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED DEVICES. Any artificial or simulated specified anatomical
area or device or paraphernalia that is designed principally for specified
sexual activities, but shall not mean any contraceptive device.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered (a) human genitals, pubic
regions, (b) buttocks, or (c) female breasts below a point immediately above
the top of the areola; or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola, but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human
female breast exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, bathing suit or
other wearing apparel, provided that the areola is not exposed; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (4)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (5)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain or erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other contact with
an animal by a human being; or
      (6)   Excretory functions as part or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (4) of this definition.
   STRADDLE DANCE. The use by an employee, of any part of his or her body to
touch the genital, pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast of a non-
employee while at the establishment, or the touching of the genital, pubic
region, buttock, anus or female breast of any employee by a non-employee while
at the establishment. Conduct shall be a “straddle dance” regardless of whether
the “touch” or “touching” occurs while the employee is displaying or exposing
any specified anatomical area. Conduct shall also be a “straddle dance”
regardless of whether the “touch” or “touching” is direct or through a medium.
The terms “lap dance,” “table dance” and “face dance” are included within the
term STRADDLE DANCE.
(Prior Code, § 112.03) (Ord. passed 7-6-1999)
CHAPTER 113: INTERNET-BASED PROPERTY TAX CERTIFICATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Authorization
   
113.03   Disclaimer
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INFORMATION. Information maintained on the internet web site by the Dare
County Tax Collector which specifies the amount of taxes, special assessments,
penalties, interest and costs due on any real or personal property located in
Dare County.
   INTERNET WEBSITE. A website maintained by Dare County government which is
accessible to the general public through internet cable connections.
   PERSONS. Persons authorized to request a property tax certification pursuant
to G.S. § 105-361(a)(1).
   PROPERTY TAX CERTIFICATION. Written certification produced by the Tax
Collector stating the amount of any taxes and special assessments, including
penalties, interest and costs, for the current year and for prior years on real
and personal property pursuant to G.S. § 105-361.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The Dare County Tax Collector, as established pursuant to
Dare County Special Act XVII (S.L. 1963-83, s. 2).
(Prior Code, § 113.01) (Res. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 113.02 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Tax Collector is authorized to post information on the Dare County
internet website which specifies the amount of taxes, special assessments,
penalties, interest, and costs due on any real or personal property located in
Dare County. Persons authorized to request certification of this information
may rely on this information posted on the Dare County internet website as if
it were a certificate issued by the Tax Collector pursuant to G.S. § 105-361.
(Prior Code, § 113.02) (Res. passed 11-17-2003)
§ 113.03 DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   The Tax Collector shall post a disclaimer on the internet website
notifying persons relying on the information contained in the website for
purposes of property tax certification of the following:
      (1)   The date as of which the information is current;
      (2)   Special instructions and procedures for accessing complete and
accurate information about the real and personal property for which
certification is sought; and
      (3)   Other specific instructions relative to the information.
   (B)   The Tax Collector shall not be liable on the Tax Collector’s bond for
any loss arising from an understatement of the tax and special assessment
obligations contained in the information available on the internet website if
the loss is due to failure on the part of the person obtaining the
certification to follow the special instructions, procedures, and notifications
provided for in the disclaimer posted on the internet website as authorized
pursuant to this section. Taxes, special assessments, penalties, interest and
costs due on any real or personal property but not paid as a result of failure
on the part of the person obtaining the certification to follow the special
instructions, procedures, and notifications provided for in the disclaimer are
still due, and the Tax Collector may adopt additional procedures for collection
of the unpaid taxes, special assessments, penalties, interest and costs.
(Prior Code, § 113.03) (Res. passed 11-17-2003)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
114.01   Sale of alcoholic beverages before noon on Sundays at licensed
premises
§ 114.01 SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BEFORE NOON ON SUNDAYS AT LICENSED
PREMISES.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in G.S. § 153A-145.7, the sale of malt
beverages, unfortified wine, fortified wine, and mixed beverages is allowed in
the unincorporated areas of Dare County beginning at 10:00 a.m. on Sunday
pursuant to the licensed premises’ permit issued under G.S. § 18B-1001.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST COUNTY REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST COUNTY REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Descending, ascending or being upon certain fire escapes prohibited
   
130.02   Discharge of firearms prohibited
   
130.03   Posting of signs to prohibit carrying of concealed handguns
   
130.04   Criminal history record checks
§ 130.01 DESCENDING, ASCENDING OR BEING UPON CERTAIN FIRE ESCAPES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall descend, ascend or be upon any fire escape ladder or
fire escape stairs attached to the county administrative building or the county
courthouse except:
      (1)   During a bona fide emergency or during a rescue attempt
necessitated to save lives or property;
      (2)   While performing bona fide maintenance after receiving written
permission from the County Manager; and
      (3)   During practice rescue efforts sponsored by a law enforcement
agency or fire protection agency.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor punishable as by law
provided.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) (Ord. passed 8-4-1980) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 130.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Near residences. It is unlawful for any person to discharge a rifle,
handgun or other firearm within 300 yards of any occupied residence or mobile
home, except by permission of the occupant of the residence and/or mobile home.
   (B)   On or across roadway. It is unlawful for any person to discharge a
firearm on or across any public road or highway.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to the taking of birds or
animals pursuant to G.S. Ch. 113, Subchapter IV; use of firearms in defense of
persons or property; or use of firearms by law enforcement officers in the
performance of duty.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) (Ord. passed 7-5-1994) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 130.03 POSTING OF SIGNS TO PROHIBIT CARRYING OF CONCEALED HANDGUNS.
   (A)   Posting of signs required. The County Manager is hereby ordered to
post appropriate signage on each park, building or portion of a building now or
hereafter owned, leased as lessee, operated, occupied, managed or controlled by
Dare County, as well as the appurtenant premises to the building, indicating
that concealed handguns are prohibited therein.
   (B)   Location of signs. The signs shall be visibly posted on the exterior
of each entrance by which the general public can access the building,
appurtenant premises or park. The County Manager shall exercise discretion in
determining the necessity and appropriate location for other signs posted on
the interior of the building, appurtenant premise or park.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) (Ord. passed 11-20-1995) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 130.04 CRIMINAL HISTORY RECORD CHECKS.
   (A)   The Director of the Dare County Parks and Recreation Department
(hereinafter DCPRD) is authorized to obtain criminal history information for
job applicants and volunteers for the Department. The Sheriff or his or her
designee shall provide the findings made through the use of the DCI computer
network to the Director of DCPRD or his or her designee provided that the DCPRD
has executed all necessary agreements with the State Bureau of Investigation,
Division of Criminal Information.
   (B)   Each applicant for an employee or volunteer position with the DCPRD
shall provide it with his or her full legal name, address and telephone number.
Each applicant shall display to the DCPRD a valid North Carolina driver’s
license (or some other form of equally reliable picture identification) and his
or her social security number as a means of identification. Each applicant
shall sign a written consent for the DCPRD to obtain a criminal history records
check.
   (C)   In the event that the criminal history records show the conviction of
any felony or any offense against public morality and decency as set forth in
G.S. Ch. 14, Art. 26, then the applicant shall be denied employee or volunteer
status.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) (Ord. passed 8-4-1997)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   AIRPORTS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   WELLS
      
155.   ZONING CODE
      
156.   WIND ZONE RESTRICTIONS FOR MANUFACTURED/ MOBILE HOMES
      
157.   MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
158.   SIGNS, CAMPAIGN SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURES
      
159.   MINING ACTIVITIES
      
160.   TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS AND CAMPGROUNDS
CHAPTER 150: AIRPORTS
Section
Manteo Airport
   
150.01   Territorial application of provisions
   
150.02   County Airport Authority; responsibility and powers
   
150.03   Trespassing on airport property
   
150.04   Violations
Airport Zoning
   
150.15   Short title
   
150.16   Definitions
   
150.17   Airport Overlay District
   
150.18   Airport Overlay District height limitations
   
150.19   Use restrictions
   
150.20   Nonconforming uses
   
150.21   Permits and variances
   
150.22   Enforcement
   
150.23   Appeals
   
150.24   Conflicting regulations
MANTEO AIRPORT
§ 150.01 TERRITORIAL APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   By virtue of and under the authority granted to the county by the general
law of the state, and in particular G.S. Ch. 63, the regulations established by
this subchapter shall govern the operations of the Manteo Airport, which Manteo
Airport is described as follows: All of those certain properties lying within
the boundaries shown on the Land Use Plan, prepared by Southern Mapping and
Engineering Company of Greensboro, North Carolina, and dated July 10, 1967, a
copy of which may be found on file in the office of the Register of Deeds, all
pertaining to the Manteo Airport, together with all the buildings and other
structures thereon, with the exception of lots 1 through and including 18 shown
on such Land Use Plan.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. passed 10-7-1975)
§ 150.02 COUNTY AIRPORT AUTHORITY; RESPONSIBILITY AND POWERS.
   The County Airport Authority, as established by the Board of Commissioners
under the authority of Chapter 503 of the 1971 Session Laws, shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of the regulations as set
forth in this subchapter, and insofar as the Board of Commissioners are
authorized to do they specifically authorize the Airport Authority to enact
such regulations and other rules as state law may entitle them to do.
(Prior Code, § 150.02) (Ord. passed 10-7-1975)
§ 150.03 TRESPASSING ON AIRPORT PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person on any of the property under the jurisdiction of the
county’s Airport Authority between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. shall
be considered a trespasser, unless that person has the specific approved to be
on the airport property, the approval to have been given by the airport night
security officer, the Airport Manager or the Chairperson of the Airport
Authority.
   (B)   Between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. any person on the
portions of the property subject to the control and jurisdiction of the Airport
Authority within the areas designated on a map on file in the office of the
Register of Deeds shall be a trespasser, except persons within any aircraft or
persons who have specific permission or authorization to be within the area,
such authorization to have been given by the Airport Manager or the Chairperson
of the Airport Authority.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. passed 10-7-1975)
§ 150.04 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating the provisions of this subchapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with
the provisions of G.S. Chapters 14 or 63.
(Prior Code, § 150.04) (Ord. passed 10-7-1975)
AIRPORT ZONING
§ 150.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as Dare County Regional
Airport Height Restriction Zoning Ordinance of 2005.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
§ 150.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. Dare County Regional Airport.
   AIRPORT AUTHORITY. The Dare County Airport Authority.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION . The highest point of an airport's usable landing area
measured in feet above sea level.
   APPROACH SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on the extended runway
centerline, extending outward and upward from the end of the primary surface
and at the same slope as the approach zone height limitation slope set forth in
§ 150.18. In plan the perimeter of the approach surface coincides with the
perimeter of the approach zone.
   APPROACH, TRANSITIONAL, HORIZONTAL, and CONICAL ZONES. These zones are set
forth in
§ 150.17.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Dare County Board of Adjustment.
   CONICAL SURFACE. A surface extending outward and upward from the periphery
of the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to 1 for a horizontal distance of
4,000 feet.
   HAZARD TO AIR NAVIGATION. An obstruction determined to have a substantial
adverse effect on the safe and efficient utilization of the navigable airspace.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean
sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HORIZONTAL SURFACE. A horizontal plane 150 feet above the established
airport elevation, the perimeter of which in plan coincides with the perimeter
of the horizontal zone.
   LARGER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by propeller driven aircraft of greater than 12,500 pounds maximum
gross weight and jet powered aircraft.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, object of natural growth, or
use of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter or an
amendment thereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument
approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities with only horizontal
guidance, or area type navigation equipment, for which a straight-in
nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved or planned.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any structure, growth, or other object, including a mobile
object, which exceeds a limiting height set forth in
§ 150.18.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or governmental entity; includes a trustee, a
receiver, an assignee, or a similar representative of any of them.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS) or a Precision Approach
Radar (PAR). It also means a runway for which a precision approach system is
planned and is so indicated on an approved airport layout plan or any other
planning document.
   PRIMARY SURFACE. A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the
runway has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends 200
feet beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface is set
forth in
§ 150.17. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the
elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline.
   RUNWAY. A defined area on the airport prepared for landing and take-off of
aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object, including a mobile object, constructed or installed by
man, including but without limitation, buildings, towers, cranes, smokestacks,
earth formation, and overhead transmission lines.
   TRANSITIONAL SURFACES. These surfaces extend outward at 90-degree angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of 7 feet
horizontally for each foot vertically from the sides of the primary and
approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical surfaces.
Transitional surfaces for those portions of the precision approach surfaces,
which project through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a
distance of 5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the approach
surface and at 90-degree angles to the extended runway centerline.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller driven aircraft of 12,500-pounds maximum gross weight and less.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
§ 150.17 AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   In order to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, there is
hereby created and established an Airport Overlay (AO) District which includes
all of the land lying beneath the approach surfaces, transitional surfaces,
horizontal surfaces, and conical surfaces as they apply to Dare County Regional
Airport. Such zones are shown on that certain map entitled Dare County Airport
(MQI), Manteo, North Carolina, Airport Zoning Map, prepared by Talbert &
Bright, Inc., Project No. 2301-0301, dated December 2003, a copy of which is
attached to this Ordinance and made a part hereof. An area located in more than
1 of the following zones is considered to be only in the zone with the more
restrictive height limitation.
   (B)   The various zones are hereby established and defined as follows:
      (1)   Utility runway nonprecision instrument approach zone. The inner
edge of this approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and
is 500 feet wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of
2,000 feet at a horizontal distance 5,000 feet from the primary surface. Its
centerline is the continuation of the centerline of the runway. This zone
applies to the Runway 17 and Runway 35 ends.
      (2)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater than
¾-mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. The inner edge of this approach
zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 500 feet wide. The
approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 3,500 feet at a
horizontal distance of 10,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline is
the continuation of the centerline of the runway. This zone applies to the
Runway 23 end.
      (3)   Precision instrument runway approach zone. The inner edge of this
approach zone coincides with the width of the primary surface and is 1,000 feet
wide. The approach zone expands outward uniformly to a width of 16,000 feet at
a horizontal distance of 50,000 feet from the primary surface. Its centerline
is the continuation of the centerline of the runway. This zone applies to the
Runway 5 end.
      (4)   Transitional zones. The transitional zones are the areas beneath
the transitional surfaces.
      (5)   Horizontal zone. The horizontal zone is established by swinging
arcs of 5,000-feet radii for all runways designated utility or visual and
10,000 feet for all others from the center of each end of the primary surface
of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by drawing lines tangent to
those arcs. The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional
zones.
      (6)   Conical zone. The conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom
a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
§ 150.18 AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no structure shall be
erected, altered, or maintained, and no tree shall be allowed to grow in any
zone created by this subchapter to a height in excess of the applicable height
limit herein established for such zone.
   (B)   Such applicable height limitations are hereby established for each of
the zones in question as follows:
      (1)   Utility runway nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 20
feet outward for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same
elevation as the primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of
5,000 feet along the extended runway centerline. This zone applies to the
Runway 17 and Runway 35 ends.
      (2)   Runway larger than utility with a visibility minimum greater than
¾-mile nonprecision instrument approach zone. Slopes 34 feet outward for each
foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary
surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline. This zone applies to the Runway 23 end.
      (3)   Precision instrument runway approach zone. Slopes 50 feet outward
for each foot upward beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface and extending to a horizontal distance of 10,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline; thence slopes upward 40 feet horizontally for each
foot vertically to an additional horizontal distance of 40,000 feet along the
extended runway centerline. This zone applies to the Runway 5 end.
      (4)   Transitional zones. Slope 7 feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the primary surface and
the approach surface, and extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport
elevation which is 100 feet above mean sea level. In addition to the foregoing,
there are established height limits sloping 7 feet outward for each foot upward
beginning at the sides of and the same elevation as the approach surface, and
extending to where they intersect the conical surface. Where the precision
instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone, there are
established height limits sloping 7 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the sides of and the same elevation as the approach surface, and extending a
horizontal distance of 5,000 feet measured at 90-degree angles to the extended
runway centerline.
      (5)   Horizontal zone. Established at 150 feet above the airport
elevation or at a height of 164 feet above mean sea level.
      (6)   Conical zone. Slopes 20 feet outward for each foot upward beginning
at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at 150 feet above the airport
elevation and extending to a height of 350 feet above the airport elevation.
      (7)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed as prohibiting the construction or maintenance of any structure, or
growth of any tree to a height up to 50 feet above the surface of the land.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
§ 150.19 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no use may be made
of land or water within any zone established by this subchapter in such a
manner as to create electrical interference with navigational signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots to
distinguish between airport lights and others, result in glare in the eyes of
pilots using the airport, impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport,
create bird strike hazards, or otherwise in any way endanger or interfere with
the landing, takeoff, or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
§ 150.20 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
subchapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering, or other
change or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations
as of the effective date of this subchapter, or otherwise interfere with the
continuance of nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any
change in the construction, alteration, or intended use of any structure, the
construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the effective date of
this subchapter, and is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding the preceding provision of this
section, the owner of any existing nonconforming structure or tree is hereby
required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance thereon of such
markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Airport Authority to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport the
presence of such airport obstruction. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the Airport Authority.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
§ 150.21 PERMITS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Determination whether certificate is required. If the Dare County
Building Inspector receives an application for a building permit affecting
property within the Airport Overlay (AO) District, and if such application
indicates that a proposed structure will be more than 50 feet tall as measured
from ground level, the Dare County Building Inspector shall inform the
applicant that the application cannot be approved by the Dare County Building
Inspector until the applicant receives a Tall Structure Certificate from the
Dare County Airport Authority.
   (B)   Tall structure certificate required for future uses. If the Dare
County Building Inspector determines that a proposed structure requires a Tall
Structure Certificate, no material change shall be made in the use of land, no
structure shall be erected or otherwise established, and no tree shall be
planted in the Airport Overlay (AO) District unless a Tall Structure
Certificate shall have been applied for and granted by the Dare County Airport
Authority. Each application for a Tall Structure Certificate shall be upon a
form published for that purpose and shall indicate the purpose for which the
Tall Structure Certificate is desired, with sufficient particularity so that
the Dare County Airport Authority can determine whether the resulting use,
structure, or tree would conform to the regulations of the Airport Overlay (AO)
District. If the Dare County Airport Authority determines that the resulting
use, structure, or tree would conform to the regulations of the Airport Overlay
(AO) District, the Dare County Airport Authority shall issue a Tall Structure
Certificate to the applicant. Upon the issuance by the Dare County Airport
Authority of the Tall Structure Certificate, the Dare County Building Inspector
may consider all requirements of the Airport Overlay (AO) District as having
been met. The Dare County Airport Authority shall not issue a Tall Structure
Certificate for a use that is inconsistent with the provisions of the Airport
Overlay (AO) District, unless a variance has been approved in accordance with
division (E) of this section.
   (C)   Existing uses. The Dare County Airport Authority shall not grant a
Tall Structure Certificate that would allow the establishment or creation of an
obstruction or permit a nonconforming use, structure, or tree to become a
greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of this
subchapter or any amendments thereto or than it is when the application for a
Tall Structure Certificate is made.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Dare County
Airport Authority determines that a nonconforming tree or structure has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, the
Dare County Airport Authority shall not grant a Tall Structure Certificate that
would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable height limit or
otherwise deviate from the requirements of the Airport Overlay (AO) District.
   (E)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use property, not in accordance
with the regulations of the Airport Overlay (AO) District, may apply to the
Dare County Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. The
application for variance shall be accompanied by a determination from the
Federal Aviation Administration as to the effect of the proposal on the
operation of air navigation facilities and the safe, efficient use of navigable
airspace. Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal
application or enforcement of the regulations will result in unnecessary
hardship, and relief granted will not be contrary to the public interest, will
not create a hazard to air navigation, will do substantial justice, and will be
in accordance with the spirit of the Airport Overlay (AO) District. No
application for variance to the requirements of the Airport Overlay (AO)
District may be considered by the Dare County Board of Adjustment unless a copy
of the application has been furnished to the Dare County Airport Authority for
advice as to the aeronautical effects of the variance. Upon receipt of a copy
of such application, the Dare County Airport Authority may consult with the
North Carolina Department of Transportation—Division of Aviation, and the
Federal Aviation Administration, regarding the aeronautical effect of the
proposed variance. The Dare County Airport Authority shall have up to 90 days
to present its response to the Dare County Board of Adjustment. During such 90-
day period, the Dare County Airport Authority may study the application and
obtain such comments and approvals from the North Carolina Department of
Transportation—Division of Aviation and the Federal Aviation Administration, as
may be requested by the Dare County Airport Authority. If the Dare County
Airport Authority has not completed its review and/or has not received such
comments and approvals from the North Carolina Department of
Transportation—Division of Aviation and the Federal Aviation Administration
during such 90-day period, the Dare County Airport Authority may file with the
Dare County Board of Adjustment within such 90-day period, a request for an
extension of time to complete its review of the application, which extension
request shall be granted or denied by the Dare County Board of Adjustment. If
the Dare County Airport Authority does not present its response or request for
extension to the Dare County Board of Adjustment within such 90-day period, the
Dare County Board of Adjustment may act on its own to grant or deny said
application.
   (F)   Obstruction marking and lighting. Any Tall Structure Certificate or
variance granted by the Dare County Airport Authority may, if such action is
deemed advisable to implement the purpose of this Ordinance and be reasonable
in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the owner of the
structure or tree in question to install, operate, and maintain, at the owner's
expense, such markings and lights as may be necessary. If deemed proper by the
Dare County Airport Authority, this condition may be modified to require the
owner to permit the Dare County Airport Authority at its own expense, to
install, operate, and maintain the necessary markings and lights.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
§ 150.22 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the Dare County Airport Authority has determined that the
provisions of this subchapter have been violated, it shall notify the Dare
County Building Inspector of the violations. It shall be the duty of the Dare
County Building Inspector to enforce the regulations of the Airport Overlay
(AO) District, but only after being advised of a violation by the Dare County
Airport Authority.
   (B)   Each violation of the Airport Overlay (AO) District or of any
regulation, order, or ruling promulgated hereunder shall be punishable as
provided by G.S. § 63-35, as amended.
   (C)   Dare County may institute in any court of competent jurisdiction, an
action to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate any violation of this Ordinance,
pursuant to G.S. § 63-35, as amended.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
§ 150.23 APPEALS.
   The Dare County Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals from any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Dare County Airport
Authority in the administration and enforcement of the regulations governing
the Airport Overlay (AO) District. Any notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof shall be filed with the Dare County Board of Adjustment. The Quasi-
Judicial Procedures of the Board of Adjustment set forth in Section 22-70 of
the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to appeals under the Airport
Overlay (AO) District. The Dare County Board of Adjustment shall furnish to the
Dare County Airport Authority a copy of such notice of appeal.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005; Am. Ord. passed 6-21- 2021)
§ 150.24 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this subchapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, and the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation
or requirement shall govern and prevail.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Statutory authorization
   
151.02   Findings of fact
   
151.03   Statement of purpose
   
151.04   Objectives
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Applicability
   
151.07   Basis for establishing special flood hazard areas
   
151.08   Establishment of local elevation standard to serve as regulatory flood
protection elevation in Shaded X and X zones
   
151.09   Compliance
   
151.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.11   Interpretation
   
151.12   Warning; disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.30   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
151.31   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.32   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements
   
151.33   Duties and responsibilities of Floodplain Administrator
   
151.34   Corrective procedures
   
151.35   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.50   General standards
   
151.51   Specific standards
   
151.52   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations
   
151.53   Standards for riverine floodplains with BFE but without established
floodways or non-encroachment areas
   
151.54   Floodways and non-encroachment areas
   
151.55   Coastal high hazard area (Zone VE)
   
151.56   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO)
   
151.57   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AH)
Legal Status Provisions
   
151.70   Effect on rights and liabilities under prior chapter
   
151.71   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits
 
   
151.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of North Carolina has in Part 6, Article 21 of
Chapter 143; Article 8 of Chapter 160A; and Articles 7, 9 and 11 of Chapter
160D (effective July 1, 2021) of the North Carolina General Statutes, delegated
to local governmental units the responsibility to adopt regulations designed to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5- 3-2020; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
§ 151.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood-prone areas within the jurisdiction of Dare County are
subject to periodic inundation which results in loss of life, property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities and by the
occupancy in flood-prone areas of uses vulnerable to floods or other hazards.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote public health, safety, and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions within flood-prone areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety, and
property due to water or erosion hazards or that result in damaging increases
in erosion, flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities that
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of
floodwaters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging, and all other development that may
increase erosion or flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.04 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Protect human life, safety, and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business losses and interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities (i.e., water and
gas mains, electric, telephone, cable and sewer lines, streets, and bridges)
that are located in flood-prone areas;
   (F)   Minimize damage to private and public property due to flooding;
   (G)   Make flood insurance available to the community through the National
Flood Insurance Program;
   (H)   Maintain the natural and beneficial functions of floodplains;
   (I)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas; and
   (J)   Ensure that potential buyers are aware that property is in a special
flood hazard area or other areas vulnerable to flooding.
   (K)   Mitigate flood risks in all areas of unincorporated Dare County by
implementing local elevation standards for all special flood hazard areas and
Shaded X and X Zones.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure located on the same
parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. Garages, carports and storage
sheds are common urban ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. Pole barns, hay sheds and the like
qualify as ACCESSORY STRUCTURES on farms, and may or may not be located on the
same parcel as the farm dwelling or shop building. For floodplain management
purposes, ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are considered structures used for parking and
storage only. The definition used for floodplain management purposes may vary
from similar definitions found in the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator's
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated Zone AO or AH on a community's Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths determined to be from 1 to 3
feet. These areas are located where a clearly defined channel does not exist,
where the path of flooding is unpredictable and indeterminate, and where
velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination of the water surface elevations
of the base flood as published in the Flood Insurance Study. When the BFE has
not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be obtained from
engineering studies available from a federal, state, or other source using
FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when combined with the
freeboard, establishes the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or the supporting foundation system.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CHEMICAL STORAGE FACILITY. A building, portion of a building, or exterior
area adjacent to a building used for the storage of any chemical or chemically
reactive products.
   COASTAL A ZONE (CAZ). An area within a special flood hazard area, landward
of a V Zone or landward of an open coast without mapped V Zones. In a COASTAL A
ZONE, the principal source of flooding must be astronomical tides, storm
surges, seiches, or tsunamis, not riverine flooding. During the base flood
conditions, the potential for wave heights shall be greater than or equal to
1.5 feet. COASTAL A ZONES are not normally designated on FIRMs. (See LIMIT OF
MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA).
   COASTAL AREA MANAGEMENT ACT (CAMA). North Carolina's Coastal Area Management
Act. This act, along with the Dredge and Fill Law and the Federal Coastal Zone
Management Act, is managed through North Carolina Department of Environment and
Natural Resources' (NCDENR's) Division of Coastal Management (DCM).
   COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS). Consists of undeveloped portions of
coastal and adjoining areas established by the Coastal Barrier Resources Act
(CoBRA) of 1982, the Coastal Barrier Improvement Act (CBIA) of 1990, and
subsequent revisions, and includes areas owned by federal or state governments
or private conservation organizations identified as Otherwise Protected Areas
(OPA).
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. A special flood hazard area extending from
offshore to the inland limit of a primary frontal dune along an open coast and
any other area subject to high velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources. The area is designated on a FIRM, or other adopted flood map as
determined in §
151.07, as Zone VE.
   DESIGN FLOOD. See REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as development which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit. This includes buildings,
structures, and non-structural items, including (but not limited to) fill,
bulkheads, piers, pools, docks, landings, ramps, and erosion control/
stabilization measures.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), on which
both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to
the community are delineated.
   DISPOSAL. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(6), the discharge, deposit,
injection, dumping, spilling, leaking, or placing of any solid waste into or on
any land or water so that the solid waste or any constituent part of the solid
waste may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including groundwaters.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building which has its lowest elevated
floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear walls, posts, piers,
pilings, or columns.
   ENCLOSURE/ENCLOSED AREA. That portion of an elevated building below the
lowest elevated floor that is either partially or fully shut in by rigid/solid
walls and is located either partially or fully below the RFPE.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a special flood hazard area, which
may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING BUILDING AND EXISTING STRUCTURE. Any building and/or structure for
which the start of construction commenced before October 1978.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) was
completed before October 6, 1978.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE. The insurance coverage provided under the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, issued by
the FEMA, on which both the special flood hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community are delineated. (See also DFIRM.)
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation, and determination
of flood hazards, corresponding water surface elevations (if appropriate),
flood hazard risk zones, and other flood data in a community issued by the
FEMA. The FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY report includes Flood Insurance Rate Maps
(FIRMs) and Flood Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFMs), if published.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. See FLOODPLAIN.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a Flood Hazard Boundary Map or
Flood Insurance Rate Map that reflects the severity or type of flooding in the
area.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood control works, FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
regulations, and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances, and other applications of police power. This term describes
federal, state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide
standards for preventing and reducing flood loss and damage.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitation facilities,
structures, and their contents.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building product (material, component or
system) capable of withstanding direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours)
with floodwaters without sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost
cosmetic repair. Any material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to
alkali or acid in water, including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not
flood-resistant. Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers
are acceptable flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict
evaporation from below and materials that are impervious, but dimensionally
unstable are not acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively
after submergence are not flood-resistant. Please refer to Technical Bulletin
2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, and available from the FEMA.
Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable FLOOD-RESISTANT
MATERIALS.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse, including the area
above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent land areas that
must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot.
   FREEBOARD. The height added to the BFE to account for the many unknown
factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, blockage of bridge or culvert openings, and the hydrological effect of
urbanization of the watershed. The BFE plus the FREEBOARD establishes the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located in close proximity to water, limited to a
docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
passengers, shipbuilding, or ship repair. The term does not include long-term
storage, manufacture, sales, or service facilities.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. As defined in G.S. Chapter 130A,
Article 9, a facility for the collection, storage, processing, treatment,
recycling, recovery, or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface, prior to construction, immediately next to the proposed walls of the
structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.
      (1)   Any structure that is:
         (a)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places
(a listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
         (b)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
         (c)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic landmarks
in communities with a Certified Local Government (CLG) Program; or
         (d)   Certified as contributing to the historical significance of a
historic district designated by a community with a CLG Program.
      (2)   CLG Programs are approved by the U.S. Department of the Interior in
cooperation with the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources through
the State Historic Preservation Officer as having met the requirements of the
National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 as amended in 1980.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). An official determination issued by FEMA that
amends or revises an effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or Flood Insurance
Study. LETTERS OF MAP CHANGE include:
      (1)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program map. A LOMA is based on
technical data showing that a property had been inadvertently mapped as being
in the floodplain, but is actually on natural high ground above the base flood
elevation. A LOMA amends the current effective Flood Insurance Rate Map and
establishes that a specific property, portion of a property, or structure is
not located in a special flood hazard area.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). A revision based on technical data
that may show changes to flood zones, flood elevations, special flood hazard
area boundaries and floodway delineations, and other planimetric features.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). A determination that
a structure or parcel of land has been elevated by fill above the BFE and is,
therefore, no longer located within the special flood hazard area. In order to
qualify for this determination, the fill must have been permitted and placed in
accordance with the community's floodplain management regulations.
      (4)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed project complies with the minimum NFIP
requirements for such projects with respect to delineation of special flood
hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the effective Flood Insurance Rate Map or
Flood Insurance Study; upon submission and approval of certified as-built
documentation, a LETTER OF MAP REVISION may be issued by FEMA to revise the
effective FIRM.
   LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle rated at 8,500 pounds Gross Vehicular
Weight Rating or less which has a vehicular curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less
and which has a basic vehicle frontal area of 45 square feet or less as defined
in 40 C.F.R § 86.082-2 and is:
      (1)   Designed primarily for purposes of transportation of property or is
a derivation of such a vehicle;
      (2)   Designed primarily for transportation of persons and has a capacity
of more than 12 persons; or
      (3)   Available with special features enabling off-street or off-highway
operation and use.
   LIMIT OF MODERATE WAVE ACTION (LiMWA). The boundary line given by FEMA on
coastal map studies marking the extents of Coastal A Zones (CAZ).
   LOCAL ELEVATION STANDARD. A locally adopted elevation level used as the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) in Shaded X and X Zones or used in
conjunction with the BFE and freeboard standard to mitigate flood hazards in
the AE, AO, VE Zones as depicted on the FIRMs for Dare County.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest elevation of the ground, sidewalk or
patio slab immediately next to the building, or deck support, after completion
of the building.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage in an area other than
a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such
an enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP REPOSITORY. The location of the official flood hazard data to be applied
for floodplain management. It is a central location in which flood data is
stored and managed; in North Carolina, FEMA has recognized that the application
of digital flood hazard data products carries the same authority as hard copy
products. Therefore, the NCEM's Floodplain Mapping Program websites house
current and historical flood hazard data. For effective flood hazard data, the
NC FRIS website (http://fris.nc.gov/fris) is the MAP REPOSITORY, and for
historical flood hazard data the FloodNC website (http://floodnc.gov/ncflood)
is the MAP REPOSITORY.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after October 6, 1978, and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NON-CONVERSION AGREEMENT. A document stating that the owner will not convert
or alter what has been constructed and approved. Violation of the agreement is
considered a violation of this chapter and therefore subject to the same
enforcement procedures and penalties. The agreement must be filed in the Dare
County Register of Deeds.
   NON-ENCROACHMENT AREA (NEA). The channel of a river or other watercourse,
including the area above a bridge or culvert when applicable, and the adjacent
land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than 1 foot as
designated in the Flood Insurance Study report.
   OTHERWISE PROTECTED AREA (OPA). See COASTAL BARRIER RESOURCES SYSTEM (CBRS).
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred on or after October 6, 1978, the effective date of the
initial Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the start of
construction occurred before October 6, 1978, the effective date of the initial
Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE (PFD). A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge
of sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward
and adjacent to the beach and subject to erosion and overtopping from high
tides and waves during major coastal storms. The inland limit of the primary
dune occurs at the point where there is a distinct change from a relatively
steep slope to a relatively mild slope. This definition is used for floodplain
management purposes and varies from the definition used in the North Carolina
Division of Coastal Management regulations.
   PRINCIPALLY ABOVE GROUND. At least 51% of the actual cash value of the
structure is above ground.
   PUBLIC SAFETY and/or NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of
persons, or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal, or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV). A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck;
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use;
and
      (5)   Is fully licensed and ready for highway use.
    REFERENCE LEVEL. For structures within the special flood hazard areas
designated as Zones AE and AO the REFERENCE LEVEL is the bottom of the lowest
floor or the bottom of the lowest attendant utility including ductwork,
whichever is lower, with only flood-resistant materials located below the
reference level. For structures within the special flood hazard areas
designated as Zone VE, the REFERENCE LEVEL is the bottom of the lowest
horizontal structural member of the lowest floor or the bottom of the lowest
attendant utility including ductwork, whichever is lower. For structures within
Zones Shaded X or X, the REFERENCE LEVEL is the bottom of the lowest floor or
the bottom of the lowest attendant utility including ductwork, whichever is
lower, with only flood-resistant materials located below the REFERENCE LEVEL.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). In special flood hazard areas,
the base flood elevation plus the freeboard for those areas where base flood
elevations have been determined on the FIRM; the base flood depth above the
highest adjacent grade or local elevation standards for those areas identified
as AO Zones of the FIRM, or the local elevation standard for those areas
identified as Shaded X or X Zones on the FIRM. For unincorporated Dare County
the RFPE is as follows:
      (1)   In VE Zones, the RFPE is the base flood elevation as designated on
the effective FIRM plus 1 foot of freeboard.
      (2)   In AE Zones, the RFPE is the base flood elevation as designated on
the effective FIRM plus 3 feet of freeboard or an elevation to or above 8 feet
NAVD 1988, whichever elevation is greater.
      (3)   In AO Zones, the RFPE is the designated base flood depth on the
effective FIRM above the highest natural adjacent grade plus 3 feet of
freeboard or an elevation to or above 8 feet NAVD 1988, whichever elevation is
greatest.
      (4)   In Shaded X and X Zones, the RFPE is 8 feet NAVD 1988 or the
natural grade elevation if the natural grade is greater than 8 feet NAVD 1988.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state and community floodplain management regulations, or, if
this is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that
impacts may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected
development from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this
chapter or otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal
financial exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SALVAGE YARD. Any non-residential property used for the storage, collection,
and/or recycling of any type of equipment, and including but not limited to
vehicles, appliances and related machinery.
   SAND DUNES. Naturally occurring accumulations of sand in ridges or mounds
landward of the beach.
   SECONDARY STRUCTURE. A structure that features habitable conditioned space
above the RFPE located on the same parcel as a primary use structure. A
SECONDARY STRUCTURE is not an ACCESSORY STRUCTURE as defined in this section.
   SHADED X ZONE. Areas of moderate flood hazard shown on the FIRM and are the
areas between the limits of the base flood and the 0.2% annual chance for
flood. Also commonly referred to as the 500-year flood.
   SHEAR WALL. Walls used for structural support but not structurally joined or
enclosed at the end (except by breakaway walls). SHEAR WALLS are parallel or
nearly parallel to the flow of the water.
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL FACILITY. Any facility involved in the disposal of
solid waste, as defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(35).
   SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL SITE. As defined in G.S. § 130A-290(a)(36), any place
at which solid wastes are disposed of by incineration, sanitary landfill, or
any other method.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain subject to a 1%
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year, as determined in §
151.07.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued provided the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The ACTUAL START means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, or a gas,
liquid, or liquefied gas storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure during any
1-year period whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before-damaged
condition would equal or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before
the damage occurred. See definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any combination of repairs, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or other improvement of a structure, taking place
during any 1-year period for which the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the market
value of the structure before the start of construction of the improvement. The
1-year period shall be based on the date a certificate of occupancy is issued
for the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
substantial damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
      (1)   Any correction of existing violations of state or community health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by the
community code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure and the alteration is approved by variance issued pursuant
to §
151.35.
   TECHNICAL BULLETIN AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEET. A FEMA publication that
provides guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in Title 44 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations at
Section 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are intended for use primarily by
state and local officials responsible for interpreting and enforcing NFIP
regulations and by members of the development community, such as design
professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as updates of existing
bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins do not create
regulations; rather they provide specific guidance for complying with the
minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION (WSE). The height, in relation to NAVD 1988, of
floods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or
riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   X ZONE. The areas of minimal flood hazard shown on the FIRM which are areas
outside of the special flood hazard areas and higher than the elevation of the
0.2% annual flood chance. Also referred to as Unshaded X Zone.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 1-6- 2014; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.06 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas within the jurisdiction of
unincorporated Dare County.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.07 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   The special flood hazard areas are those identified under the Cooperating
Technical State (CTS) agreement between the State of North Carolina and FEMA in
its FIS dated June 19, 2020, for Dare County and associated DFIRM panels,
including any digital data developed as part of the FIS, which are adopted by
reference and declared a part of this chapter and all revisions thereto.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.08 ESTABLISHMENT OF LOCAL ELEVATION STANDARD TO SERVE AS REGULATORY FLOOD
PROTECTION ELEVATION IN SHADED X AND X ZONES.
   A local elevation standard shall apply to any Shaded X and X Zones as
identified on the effective FIRMs for Dare County and shall serve as a
regulatory flood protection level (RFPE) in Shaded X and X Zones. These areas
are vulnerable to flooding from storm surge, wind-driven tides and excessive
rainfall associated with storm systems. These areas have flooded during past
storm events and continue to remain at risk to flooding. Therefore, an
elevation standard and other floodplain development components have been
determined by Dare County to be appropriate for these Shaded X and X Zone areas
as defined in §
151.05. All development activities in any Shaded X or X Zone shall conform to
the provisions set forth in §§
151.30 et seq. and
151.50 et seq., including a regulatory flood protection level of 8 feet NAVD
1988 or the natural grade elevation if the natural grade is greater than 8 feet
NAVD 1988.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.09 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted,
altered, or developed in any way without full compliance with the terms of this
chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.10 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.11 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.12 WARNING; DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur. Actual flood heights may be
increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that land
outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas will
be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of Dare County or by any officer or employee thereof for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in any AE, AO, VE, Shaded X or X Zone.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.31 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Planning Director or their designee, hereinafter referred to as the
"Floodplain Administrator", is hereby appointed to administer and implement the
provisions of this chapter. In instances where the Floodplain Administrator
receives assistance from others to complete tasks to administer and implement
this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall be responsible for the
coordination and community's overall compliance with the National Flood
Insurance Program and the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.32 FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT APPLICATION, PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities. The following items shall be presented to the Floodplain
Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit:
      (1)   A plot plan drawn to scale which shall include, but not be limited
to, the following specific details of the proposed floodplain development:
         (a)   The nature, location, dimensions, and elevations of the area of
development/disturbance; existing and proposed structures, utility systems,
grading/pavement areas, fill materials, storage areas, drainage facilities, and
other development;
         (b)   The boundary of any special flood hazard area or any Shaded X or
X Zone as delineated on the FIRM or other flood map as determined in §§
151.07 or
151.08 or a statement that the entire lot is within the special flood hazard
area;
         (c)   Flood zone(s), including any Shaded X or X Zone, designation of
the proposed development area as determined on the FIRM or other flood map as
determined in §§
151.07 and
151.08;
         (d)   The boundary of the floodway(s) or non-encroachment area(s) as
determined in §
151.07;
         (e)   The base flood elevation (BFE) and/or regulatory flood
protection elevation where provided as set forth in §§
151.07,
151.08,
151.33, or
151.53;
         (f)   The old and new location of any watercourse that will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development;
         (g)   The boundary and designation date of the Coastal Barrier
Resource System (CBRS) area or Otherwise Protected Areas (OPA), if applicable;
and
         (h)   The certification of the plot plan by a registered land surveyor
or professional engineer.
      (2)   Proposed elevation, and method thereof, of all development
including but not limited to:
         (a)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 of the proposed reference
level (including basement) of all structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 or approved datum that is
applicable at time of construction, to which any non-residential structure in
Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X or X will be floodproofed; and
         (c)   Elevation in relation to NAVD 1988 to which any proposed utility
systems will be elevated or floodproofed.
      (3)   If floodproofing, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34)
with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and maintenance
plan that include, but are not limited to, installation, exercise, and
maintenance of floodproofing measures;
      (4)   A foundation plan, drawn to scale, which shall include details of
the proposed foundation system to ensure all provisions of this chapter are
met. These details include but are not limited to:
         (a)   The proposed method of elevation, if applicable (i.e., fill,
solid foundation perimeter wall, solid backfilled foundation, open foundation
on columns/posts/piers/piles/shear walls);
         (b)   Openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces on walls in accordance with §
151.51(D)(4) when solid foundation perimeter walls are used in Zones A, AE, AH,
AO, A99, Shaded X or X zone; and
         (c)   The following, in Coastal High Hazard Areas, in accordance with
the provisions of §§
151.51(D)(5) and
151.55.
            1.   V-Zone certification with accompanying plans and
specifications verifying the engineered structure and any breakaway wall
designs; in addition, prior to the certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance, a registered professional engineer or architect shall certify the
finished construction is compliant with the design, specifications and plans
for VE Zone construction;
            2.   Plans for open wood latticework or insect screening, if
applicable; and
            3.   Plans for non-structural fill, if applicable. If non-
structural fill is proposed, it must be demonstrated through coastal
engineering analysis that the proposed fill would not result in any increase in
the BFE or otherwise cause adverse impacts by wave ramping and deflection on to
the subject structure or adjacent properties.
      (5)   Usage details of any enclosed areas below the lowest floor;
      (6)   Plans and/or details for the protection of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems to be located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
      (7)   Certification that all other local, state and federal permits
required prior to floodplain development permit issuance have been received;
      (8)   Documentation for placement of recreational vehicles and/or
temporary structures, when applicable, to ensure that the provisions of §
151.51(F) and (G) are met;
      (9)   A description of proposed watercourse alteration or relocation,
when applicable, including engineering report on the effects of the proposed
project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the effects to
properties located both upstream and downstream; and a map (if not shown on
plot plan) showing the location of the proposed watercourse alteration or
relocation;
      (10)   In Shaded X and X Zones, a survey prepared by a licensed North
Carolina surveyor may be used to demonstrate the natural grades of the parcel
relative to the RFPE of 8 feet.
   (B)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall include,
but not be limited to:
      (1)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted under
the floodplain development permit (e.g., house, garage, pool, septic, bulkhead,
cabana, pier, bridge, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or
drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials, etc.);
      (2)   The flood zone determination for the proposed development in
accordance with available data specified in §§
151.07 and
151.08;
      (3)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
reference level and all attendant utilities;
      (4)   The regulatory flood protection elevation required for the
protection of all public utilities;
      (5)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
      (6)   The flood openings requirements, if in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99,
Shaded X or X;
      (7)   Limitations of below-RFPE enclosure uses – parking, building access
and limited storage only;
      (8)   A statement, if in Zone VE, that there shall be no alteration of
sand dunes which would increase potential damage;
      (9)   A statement, if in Zone VE, that there shall be no fill used for
structural support;
      (10)   A statement that all materials below RFPE must be flood-resistant
materials.
   (C)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Elevation certificates for AE, AO, VE, Shaded X and X Zones.
         (a)   An under construction elevation certificate is required prior to
completion of the framing inspection by Dare County. It shall be the duty of
the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator or his or her
designee a certification of the under construction elevation of the reference
level in relation to mean sea level. The under construction certificate shall
be submitted at the time a framing inspection is scheduled with the Dare County
Building Inspection. The Floodplain Administrator or his or her designee shall
review the certificate and report any deficiencies to the permit holder
immediately and such deficiencies shall be corrected immediately prior to
further work being permitted to proceed. Failure to submit the under
construction elevation certificate or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop work order for the project.
         (b)   A final Finished Construction Elevation Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-33) is required after construction is completed and prior to certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of final as-built
construction of the elevation of the reference
level and all attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be
corrected by the permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of
compliance/occupancy issuance. In some instances, another certification may be
required to certify corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to
withhold the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy. The finished
construction elevation certificate certifier shall provide at least 2
photographs showing the front and rear of the building taken within 90 days
from the date of certification. The photographs must be taken with views
confirming the building description and diagram number provided in Section A of
the certificate. To the extent possible, these photographs should show the
entire building including foundation. If the building has split-level or multi-
level areas, provide at least 2 additional photographs showing side views of
the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a photograph of the
foundation showing a representative example of the flood openings or vents. All
photographs must be in color and measure at least 3 by 3 inches. Digital
photographs are acceptable.
         (c)   In Shaded X and X Zones, the submission of the under
construction elevation certificate and the finished construction elevation
certificate may be waived if a survey of the parcel was used to certify the
natural grade of the parcel was to or above 8 feet NAVD at the time of permit
application. In lieu of the finished construction elevation certificate, an as-
built survey of the parcel shall be submitted to certify the finished grade of
the parcel is compliant with the RFPE or 8 feet NAVD or above.
      (2)   Floodproofing certificate.
         (a)   If non-residential floodproofing is used to meet the regulatory
flood protection elevation requirements, a Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA Form
086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection and
maintenance plan are required prior to the actual start of any new
construction. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design elevation
of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to NAVD 1988.
Floodproofing certification shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to permit approval. Failure to
submit the certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause
to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in accordance
with the certified design shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
         (b)   A final Finished Construction Floodproofing Certificate (FEMA
Form 086-0-34), with supporting data, an operational plan, and an inspection
and maintenance plan are required prior to the issuance of a certificate of
compliance/occupancy. It shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the Floodplain Administrator a certification of the floodproofed design
elevation of the reference level and all attendant utilities, in relation to
NAVD 1988. Floodproofing certificate shall be prepared by or under the direct
supervision of a professional engineer or architect and certified by same. The
Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data, the operational
plan, and the inspection and maintenance plan. Deficiencies detected by such
review shall be corrected by the applicant prior to certificate of occupancy.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to deny a floodplain development permit. Failure to construct in
accordance with the certified design shall be cause to deny a certificate of
compliance/ occupancy.
      (3)   If a manufactured home is placed within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99,
Shaded X and X and the elevation of the chassis is more than 36 inches in
height above grade, an engineered foundation certification is required in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.51(C).
      (4)   If a watercourse is to be altered or relocated, a description of
the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation; a professional engineer's
certified report on the effects of the proposed project on the flood-carrying
capacity of the watercourse and the effects to properties located both upstream
and downstream; and a map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation shall all be submitted by the permit applicant prior
to issuance of a floodplain development permit.
      (5)   Certification exemptions. The following structures, if located
within Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X and X, are exempt from the elevation/
floodproofing certification requirements specified in divisions (C)(1) and (2)
above:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
151.51(F);
         (b)   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
151.51(G); and
         (c)   Accessory structures that are 150 square feet or less and
meeting requirements of §
151.51(H).
      (6)   A V-Zone certification with accompanying design plans and
specifications is required prior to issuance of a floodplain development permit
within coastal high hazard areas. It shall be the duty of the permit applicant
to submit to the Floodplain Administrator said certification to ensure the
design standards of this chapter are met. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall develop or review the structural design, plans, and
specifications for construction and certify that the design and methods of
construction to be used are in accordance with accepted standards of practice
for meeting the provisions of this chapter. This certification is not a
substitute for an elevation certificate. In addition, prior to the certificate
of compliance/occupancy issuance, a registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify the finished construction is compliant with the design,
specifications and plans for VE Zone construction.
      (7)   A signed, completed non-conversion agreement (see the appendices
attached to Ordinance passed May 3, 2020) is required prior to the issuance of
a certificate of compliance/occupancy. This agreement shall be completed by the
property owner of record (if different than the permit holder) and shall be
recorded in the Dare County Register of Deeds. A copy of the recorded agreement
shall be provided to the Dare County Building Inspector prior to the issuance
of the certificate of occupancy. Failure to submit the certification shall be
cause to withhold the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. This non-
conversion agreement shall be required for all new construction and substantial
improvements which feature an enclosure area below the RFPE and with walls
greater than 4 feet in height that may be converted after occupancy of the
structure.
      (8)   Release of restrictive covenant. If a property which is bound by a
non-conversion agreement is modified to remove enclosed areas below RFPE, then
the owner may request release of restrictive covenant after staff inspection
and submittal of confirming documentation.
      (9)   Acknowledgment forms attached to this chapter for AE, AO, Shaded X
and X Zones for VE Zones (see the appendices attached to Ordinance passed May
3, 2020) for construction shall be signed and completed by property owners at
the time construction permits are issued by the Dare County Building Inspector.
These acknowledgment forms indicate the specific flood zone designation for the
subject property; outlines the construction standards for elevation of the
structure to the regulatory flood elevation and explains the use restrictions
associated with the property.
   (D)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For applications
for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including
alterations, movement, relocation, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, substantial improvements,
repairs of substantial damage, and any other improvement of or work on such
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with
the Code Enforcement Official, shall:
      (1)   Estimate the market value, or require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser, of
the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work; in the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
      (2)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a
damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
      (3)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
      (4)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that compliance
with the flood-resistant construction requirements of the North Carolina
Building Code and this chapter is required.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 1-20- 2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.33 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the
following duties:
   (A)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits for
all proposed development to assure that the requirements of this chapter have
been satisfied;
   (B)   Review all proposed development to assure that all necessary local,
state and federal permits have been received, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1334);
   (C)   Notify adjacent communities and the North Carolina Department of
Public Safety, Division of Emergency Management, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA);
   (D)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is maintained;
   (E)   Prevent encroachments into floodways and non-encroachment areas unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
151.54 are met;
   (F)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of the reference
level (including basement) and all attendant utilities of all new and
substantially improved structures, in accordance with the provisions of §
151.32(C);
   (G)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) to which all new
and substantially improved structures and utilities have been flood proofed, in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.32(C);
   (H)   Obtain actual elevation (in relation to NAVD 1988) of all public
utilities in accordance with the provisions of §
151.32(C);
   (I)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the provisions of §§
151.32(C) and
151.51(B);
   (J)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of boundaries
of the special flood hazard areas, Shaded X or X Zone floodways, or non-
encroachment areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions), make the necessary
interpretation. The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be
given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in this
subchapter;
   (K)   When BFE data has not been provided in accordance with the provisions
of §§
151.07 and
151.08, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data or non-encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or
other source, including data developed pursuant to §
151.52, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (L)   When BFE data is provided but no floodway or non-encroachment area
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.07 and
151.08, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any floodway data or non-
encroachment area data available from a federal, state, or other source in
order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
   (M)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the administration of
this chapter and make these records available for public inspection,
recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended;
   (N)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to
a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator shall
make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the
work is being done according to the provisions of the local ordinance and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (O)   Issue stop-work orders as required. Whenever a building or part
thereof is being constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation
of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage, and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order constitutes a misdemeanor;
   (P)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans, and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
   (Q)   Make periodic inspections throughout the AE, AO, VE, Shaded X and X
Zones within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her inspections department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
   (R)   Follow through with corrective procedures of §
151.34;
   (S)   Review, provide input, and make recommendations for variance requests;
   (T)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not limited to,
historical and effective FIS report, historical and effective FIRM and other
official flood maps and studies adopted in accordance with the provisions of §
151.07, including any revisions thereto including letters of map change, issued
by FEMA. Notify state and FEMA of mapping needs;
   (U)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters of
map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs).
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 1-20- 2015; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.34 CORRECTIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law cited in such
notification.
   (B)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner's last known address or by personal service,
stating:
      (1)   That the building or property is in violation of the floodplain
management regulations;
      (2)   That a hearing will be held before the Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than 10 days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   That following the hearing, the Floodplain Administrator may issue
an order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building; or to remove fill as
applicable.
   (C)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed above, the Floodplain Administrator shall find that the
building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she shall issue
an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the violation
within a specified time period, not less than 60 calendar days, nor more than
180 calendar days. Where the Floodplain Administrator finds that there is
imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may order that corrective
action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (D)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal the order to the Dare County Board of Adjustments by giving notice
of appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the clerk within 10
days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the
order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The Dare County Board of
Adjustments shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm,
modify and affirm, or revoke the order.
   (E)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action for which no appeal has
been made or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following an
appeal, the owner shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. §
143-215.58 and shall be punished at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.35 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   These procedures apply in AE, AO, VE, Shaded X and X Zones as depicted on
the FIRMs for Dare County.
   (A)   The Dare County Board of Adjustment as established by Dare County,
hereinafter referred to as the "Appeal Board", shall hear and decide requests
for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision to the Court, as provided in the North Carolina General Statutes.
   (C)   Variances may be issued for:
      (1)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
      (2)   Functionally dependent facilities if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
151.05, provided provisions of division (I) below have been satisfied, and such
facilities are protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety; or
      (3)   Any other type of development provided it meets the requirements of
this section.
   (D)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as defined
under §
151.05 as a functionally dependent facility, where applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
   (E)   A written report addressing each of the above factors shall be
submitted with the application for a variance.
   (F)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
   (G)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the RFPE and the elevation to which
the structure is to be built and that such construction below the RFPE
increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a variance to
construct a structure below the RFPE may result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage. Such notification
shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance.
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to FEMA and the State of North Carolina upon
request.
   (I)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws, regulations, or
ordinances.
      (2)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway or
non-encroachment area if the variance would result in any increase in flood
levels during the base flood discharge.
      (3)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued prior to development permit
approval.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (J)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or sites,
hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage
facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that all of
the following conditions are met.
      (1)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
      (2)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special flood
hazard area;
      (3)   The reference level of any structure is elevated or flood proofed
to at least the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation;
      (4)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and local
laws;
      (5)   Dare County has notified the Secretary of the North Carolina
Department of Public Safety of its intention to grant a variance at least 30
calendar days prior to granting the variance.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3- 2020)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.50 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following provisions are required and shall apply in any AE, AO, AH, VE,
Shaded X or X Zone:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance
with the FEMA Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials
Requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
   (D)   All new electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, and other service equipment shall be located at or above the RFPE or
designed and installed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within
the components during the occurrence of the base flood. These include, but are
not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units, bath/kitchen fixtures,
ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable boxes, water heaters,
and electric outlets/switches.
      (1)   Replacements that are part of a substantial improvement,
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning equipment, and
other service equipment shall also meet the above provisions.
      (2)   Replacements that are for maintenance and not part of a substantial
improvement, may be installed at the original location provided the addition
and/or improvements only comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (H)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction, or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, non-encroachment
area, or stream setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the
regulatory flood protection elevation in the floodway, non-encroachment area,
or stream setback, and provided that such repair, reconstruction, or
replacement meets all of the other requirements of this chapter.
   (I)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards, and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
151.33(J). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to an
allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or flood proofed to at least the
regulatory flood protection elevation and certified in accordance with the
provisions of §
151.32(C).
   (J)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage.
   (K)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (L)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (M)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall have
received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including Section 404 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 (33 U.S.C. 1334).
   (N)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard area,
the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
   (O)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest RFPE shall apply.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.51 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   The following provisions, in addition to the provisions of §
151.50, are required and shall apply in any AE, AO, AH, VE, Shaded X or X Zone.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial, or other non-residential structure
shall have the reference level, including basement, elevated no lower than the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation, as defined in §
151.05. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99 Shaded X and X may be
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation
provided that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, below the regulatory flood protection elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy. For AO Zones, the floodproofing
elevation shall be in accordance with §
151.56. A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
floodproofing standards of this division are satisfied. Such certification
shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator as set forth in §
151.32(C), along with the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the reference level of the manufactured home is no lower than the regulatory
flood protection elevation, as defined in §
151.05.   
      (2)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State of North Carolina Regulations for Manufactured
Homes adopted by the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to G.S. § 143-143.15.
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
      (3)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of §
151.51(D).
      (4)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone areas. This
plan shall be filed with and approved by the Floodplain Administrator and the
local Emergency Management Coordinator.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. An enclosed area/enclosure, as defined in §
151.05, of new construction and substantially improved structures, which is
below the lowest floor in AE, AO, AH, Shaded X or X Zones or below the lowest
horizontal structural member in VE Zones:
      (1)   Shall not be designed or used for human habitation, but shall only
be used for parking of vehicles, building access, or limited storage of
maintenance equipment used in connection with the premises. Access to the
enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to allow for parking of vehicles
(garage door) or limited storage of maintenance equipment (standard exterior
door), or entry to the living area (stairway or elevator). The interior portion
of such enclosed area shall not be finished or partitioned into separate rooms,
except to enclose storage areas;
      (2)   Shall not be temperature- controlled or conditioned. Non-
temperature controlled dehumidifiers may be used in enclosed areas and shall
not result in the enclosed area being determined to be conditioned space.
      (3)   Shall be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at least
to the regulatory flood protection elevation; and
      (4)   Shall include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A99, Shaded X and X flood
openings to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by
allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the
openings must either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or
meet or exceed the following minimum design criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of 2 flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
         (b)   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least 1
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding or a
minimum of 1 engineered inch for each square foot of enclosed area for an
engineered opening.
         (c)   If a building has more than 1 enclosed area, each enclosed area
must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and exit;
         (d)   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than 1 foot above the higher of the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
         (e)   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
         (f)   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes, and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or wood underpinning, regardless of structural status, is
considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as outlined above.
      (5)   Shall, in coastal high hazard areas (Zone VE), either be free of
obstruction or constructed with breakaway walls, open wood latticework or
insect screening, provided they are not part of the structural support of the
building and are designed so as to breakaway, under abnormally high tides or
wave action without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or
supporting foundation system or otherwise jeopardizing the structural integrity
of the building. The following design specifications shall be met:
         (a)   Material shall consist of open wood or plastic lattice or insect
screening; or
         (b)   Breakaway walls shall meet the following design specifications:
            1.   Design safe loading resistance shall be not less than 10 nor
more than 20 pounds per square foot; or
            2.   Breakaway walls that exceed a design safe loading resistance
of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so required by state or
local codes) shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the breakaway wall will collapse from a water load less than
that which would occur during the base flood event, and the elevated portion of
the building and supporting foundation system shall not be subject to collapse,
displacement, or other structural damage due to the effects of wind and water
loads acting simultaneously on all building components (structural and non-
structural). The water loading values used shall be those associated with the
base flood. The wind loading values used shall be those required by the North
Carolina State Building Code.
      (6)   Property owners shall be required to execute and record a non-
conversion agreement prior to issuance of a building permit declaring that the
area below the lowest floor shall not be improved, finished or otherwise
converted to habitable space. This agreement shall be recorded with the Dare
County Register of Deeds and shall transfer with the property in perpetuity.
This non-conversion agreement shall be required for all new construction and
substantial improvements which feature an enclosure area below the RFPE and
with walls greater than 4 feet in height that may be converted after occupancy
of the structure.
      (7)   Release of restrictive covenant. If a property which is bound by a
non-conversion agreement is modified to remove enclosed areas below BFE, then
the owner may request release of restrictive covenant after staff inspection
and submittal of confirming documentation.)
   (E)   Additions/improvements/conversi ons.
      (1)   In AE, AO and VE Zones.
         (a)   If additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures when the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more non- conforming than the existing structure;
            2.   A substantial improvement, with modifications/rehabilitations/
improvements to the existing structure or the common wall is structurally
modified more than installing a doorway; both the existing structure and the
addition must comply with the standards for new construction.
         (b)   Additions to pre-FIRM or post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications/rehabilitations/improvements to
the existing structure other than a standard door in the common wall shall
require only the addition to comply with the standards for new construction.
         (c)   If additions and/or improvements to post-FIRM structures when
the addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications
to the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction
consistent with the code and requirements for the original structure;
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (d)   Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or improvement of a building or structure taking place during 1-year
period, the cumulative cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value
of the structure before the improvement or repair is started must comply with
the standards for new construction. For each building or structure, the 1-year
period begins on the date the certificate of occupancy is issued for the first
improvement or repair of that building or structure subsequent to the effective
date of this chapter. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any
repairs are considered substantial improvement regardless of the actual repair
work performed. The requirement does not, however, include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a building required to correct
existing health, sanitary or safety code violations identified by the community
Code Enforcement Official and that are the minimum necessary to assume safe
living conditions; or
            2.   Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
historic structure.
         (e)    Areas in existing structures shall not be converted for use as
conditioned, temperature-controlled space unless the reference level is located
to or above the RFPE.
      (2)   In Shaded X and X Zones.
         (a)   The substantial improvement/ substantial damage definitions as
established in §
151.05 do not apply to Shaded X and X Zones.
         (b)   Laterals additions (increase in the footprint of the
conditioned, temperature-controlled space) to existing structures shall have
the reference level elevated to or above the RFPE that was applicable at the
time of original construction of the structure.
         (c)   Remodeling or renovations of existing structures with the
reference level located below the current applicable RFPE that do not increase
the footprint of the structure may be authorized at the existing reference
level or higher.
         (d)   Reconstruction of damaged portions of a structure may be
authorized at the existing reference level or higher. However, if a structure
is entirely demolished for whatever reason, the replacement structure shall be
constructed to or above the RFPE.
         (e)   Structures that are relocated on the same site or to another
site shall be elevated to or above the applicable RFPE of the lot or to or
above the RFPE of the new site.
         (f)   Areas in existing structures shall not be converted for use as
conditioned, temperature-controlled space unless the reference level is located
to or above the RFPE.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Temporary placement. Recreational vehicles shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use. (A recreational
vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is
attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities, and has no
permanently attached additions.)
      (2)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles located in travel
trailer parks authorized by Dare County that do not meet the limitations of
Temporary Placement shall meet all the requirements for new construction.
   (G)   Temporary non-residential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a hurricane, flash flood or other type of flood warning
notification. The following information shall be submitted in writing to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and written approval:
      (1)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed 3 months, renewable up to 1 year;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
      (3)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., minimum of 72 hours before landfall of a hurricane or
immediately upon flood warning notification);
      (4)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the entity
responsible for physical removal of the structure; and
      (5)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved.
   (H)   Accessory structures. The following criteria shall be met:
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
      (2)   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
      (3)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential;
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
      (5)   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance with
the provisions of §
151.50(A);
      (6)   All service facilities such as electrical shall be installed in
accordance with the provisions of §
151.50(D); and
      (7)   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of hydrostatic
flood forces shall be provided below regulatory flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of division (D)(4). The Floodplain
Administrator shall certify installation of required flood openings in
compliance with the provisions of division (D)(4) above.
      (8)   Any accessory structure with a footprint of 150 square feet or less
and satisfies the criteria outlined above is not required to meet the elevation
or floodproofing requirements of §
151.32(C)(1)(a) and division (D)(4) of this section.
   (I)   Tanks. Gas and liquid storage tanks shall meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Underground tanks. Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood,
including the effects of buoyancy, assuming the tank is empty.
      (2)   Above-ground tanks, elevated. Above-ground tanks that do not meet
the elevation requirements of this section shall not be permitted in V or VE
Zones. Above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas may be elevated to or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation on a supporting structure that is
designed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement during conditions
of the design flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the foundation
requirements of the applicable flood hazard area.
      (3)   Above-ground tanks, not elevated. Above-ground tanks in flood
hazard areas may be located below the regulatory flood protection elevation
provided the tanks are designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist
all flood-related and other loads, including the effects of buoyancy and
lateral movement, during conditions of the design flood and without release of
contents in the floodwaters or infiltration by floodwaters into the tanks.
Tanks shall be designed, constructed, installed, and anchored to resist the
potential buoyant and other flood forces acting on an empty tank during design
flood conditions.
      (4)   Tank inlets and vents. Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and
vents shall be located at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or
fitted with covers designed to prevent lateral movement, the inflow of
floodwater or outflow of the contents of the tanks during conditions of the
design flood.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5- 21-2012; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.52 STANDARDS FOR FLOODPLAINS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS.
   Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Approximate Zone A and
established in §
151.07 where no BFE data has been provided by FEMA, the following provisions,
in addition to the provisions of §
151.50, shall apply:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements or new development shall be permitted within a distance of 20 feet
each side from top of bank or 5 times the width of the stream, whichever is
greater, unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (B)   The BFE used in determining the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be determined based on the following criteria:
      (1)   When BFE data is available from other sources, all new construction
and substantial improvements within such areas shall also comply with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be elevated or floodproofed in
accordance with standards in §§
151.50 and
151.51.
      (2)   When floodway or non-encroachment data is available from a federal,
state, or other source, all new construction and substantial improvements
within floodway and non-encroachment areas shall also comply with the
requirements of §§
151.51 and
151.54.
      (3)   All subdivision, manufactured home park and other development
proposals shall provide BFE data if development is greater than 5 acres or has
more than 50 lots/manufactured home sites. Such BFE data shall be adopted by
reference in accordance with §
151.07 and utilized in implementing this chapter.
      (4)   When BFE data is not available from a federal, state, or other
source as outlined above, the reference level shall be elevated or floodproofed
(non-residential) to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation, as
defined in §
151.05. All other applicable provisions of §
151.51 shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.53 STANDARDS FOR RIVERINE FLOODPLAINS WITH BFE BUT WITHOUT ESTABLISHED
FLOODWAYS OR NON-ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Along rivers and streams where BFE data is provided by FEMA or is available
from another source but neither floodway nor non-encroachment areas are
identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or in the FIS report,
the following requirements shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   Standards of §§
151.50 and
151.51; and
   (B)   Until a regulatory floodway or non-encroachment area is designated, no
encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, or
other development, shall be permitted unless certification with supporting
technical data by a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development, will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than 1 foot at any point within the community.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.54 FLOODWAYS AND NON- ENCROACHMENT AREAS.
   Areas designated as floodways or non-encroachment areas are located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07. The floodways and non-encroachment areas are extremely hazardous areas
due to the velocity of floodwaters that have erosion potential and carry debris
and potential projectiles. The following provisions, in addition to standards
outlined in §§
151.50 and
151.51, shall apply to all development within such areas:
   (A)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
      (1)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not result
in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
discharge, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance
with standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain
Administrator prior to issuance of floodplain development permit; or
      (2)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved by
FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within 6 months of
completion of the proposed encroachment.
   (B)   If division (A) is satisfied, all development shall comply with all
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following provisions
are met:
      (1)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of §
151.51(C); and
      (2)   The encroachment standards of division (A).
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3- 2020)
§ 151.55 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA (ZONE VE).
   Coastal high hazard areas are special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07 and designated as Zones VE. These areas have special flood hazards
associated with high velocity waters from storm surges or seismic activity and,
therefore, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following provisions in addition to the provisions of §§
151.50 and
151.51:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be located
landward of the reach of mean high tide.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be elevated so
that the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
(excluding pilings or columns) is no lower than the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Flood proofing shall not be utilized on any structures in coastal
high hazard areas to satisfy the regulatory flood protection elevation
requirements.
   (C)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the space
below the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest floor
free of obstruction so as not to impede the flow of flood waters, with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   Open wood or plastic latticework or insect screening may be
permitted below the lowest floor for aesthetic purposes only and must be
designed to wash away in the event of wave impact and in accordance with the
provisions of §
151.51(D)(5). Design plans shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions
of §
151.32(A)(4)(c)1.; or
      (2)   Breakaway walls may be permitted provided they meet the criteria
set forth in §
151.51(D)(5). Design plans shall be submitted in accordance with the provisions
of §
151.32(A)(4)(c)1.
   (D)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be securely
anchored to pile or column foundations. All pilings and columns and the
structure attached thereto shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and
lateral movement due to the effect of wind and water loads acting
simultaneously on all building components.
      (1)   Water loading values used shall be those associated with the base
flood.
      (2)   Wind loading values used shall be those required by the current
edition of the North Carolina State Building Code.
   (E)   For concrete pads, including patios, decks, parking pads, walkways,
driveways, pool decks, etc., the following is required:
      (1)    Shall be structurally independent of the primary structural
foundation system of the structure and shall not adversely affect structures
through redirection of floodwaters or debris;
      (2)   Shall be constructed to break away cleanly during design flood
conditions, shall be frangible, and shall not produce debris capable of causing
damage to any structure (Note: The installation of concrete in small segments
(approximately 4 feet by 4 feet) that will easily break up during the base
flood event, or score concrete in 4 feet by 4 feet maximum segments is
acceptable to meet this standard);
      (3)   Reinforcing, including welded wire fabric, shall not be used in
order to minimize the potential for concreted pads being a source of debris;
and
      (4)   Pad thickness:
         (a)   Shall not exceed 4 inches; or
         (b)   Be certified by a design professional that the design and method
of construction to be used shall be compliant with the applicable criteria of
this section.
      (5)   The provisions above shall not apply to non-residential or multi-
family construction that is designed by a professional engineer and constructed
with self-supporting structural slabs capable of remaining intact and
functional under base flood conditions, included expected erosion.
   (F)   For swimming pools and spas, the following is required:
      (1)   Be designed to withstand all flood-related loads and load
combinations.
      (2)   Be elevated so that the lowest horizontal structural member is
elevated above the RFPE; or
      (3)   Be designed and constructed to break away during design flood
conditions without producing debris capable of causing damage to any structure;
or
      (4)   Be sited to remain in the ground during design flood conditions
without obstructing flow that results in damage to any structure.
      (5)   Registered design professionals must certify to local officials
that a pool or spa beneath or near a VE Zone building will not be subject to
flotation or displacement that will damage building foundations or elevated
portions of the building or any nearby buildings during a coastal flood.
   (G)   All elevators, vertical platform lifts, chair lifts, etc., the
following is required:
      (1)   Elevator enclosures must be designed to resist hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic forces as well as erosion, scour, and waves.
      (2)   Utility equipment in coastal high hazard areas (VE Zones) must not
be mounted on, pass through, or be located along breakaway walls.
      (3)    The cab, machine/equipment room, hydraulic pump, hydraulic
reservoir, counter weight and roller guides, hoist cable, limit switches,
electric hoist motor, electrical junction box, circuit panel, and electrical
control panel shall:
         (a)   Be elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection
elevation; or
         (b)   Constructed using flood damage-resistant components/materials.
   (H)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that the
design, specifications and plans for construction are in compliance with the
provisions of §§
151.32(B)(C) and
151.55 on the current version of the North Carolina V-Zone certification form
or equivalent local version. In addition, prior to the certificate of
compliance/ occupancy issuance, a registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify the finished construction is compliant with the design,
specifications and plans for VE Zone construction.
   (I)   Fill/grading. Fill material shall not be used for structural support
of building. Minor grading and the placement of minor quantities of non-
structural fill may be permitted for landscaping and for drainage purposes
under and around buildings and for support of parking slabs, pool decks, patios
and walkways. Fill material shall not prevent free passage of floodwaters and
waves beneath elevated buildings. Fill must not divert floodwaters or deflect
waves such that increased damage is sustained by adjacent or nearby buildings.
FEMA Technical Bulletins may be consulted for appropriate evaluation criteria
on the placement of non-structural fill in VE Zones.
   (J)   There shall be no alteration of sand dunes or mangrove stands which
would increase potential flood damage.
   (K)   No manufactured homes shall be permitted except in an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision. A replacement manufactured home may be
placed on a lot in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision provided
the anchoring and elevation standards of this Section have been satisfied.
   (L)   Recreational vehicles may be permitted in coastal high hazard areas
provided that they meet the recreational vehicle criteria of §
151.51(F).
   (M)   A deck that is structurally attached to a building or structure shall
have the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation and any supporting members that extend
below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall comply with the
foundation requirements that apply to the building or structure, which shall be
designed to accommodate any increased loads resulting from the attached deck.
The increased loads must be considered in the design of the primary structure
and included in the V-Zone certification required under §
151.32(C)(6).
   (N)   A deck or patio that is located below the regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be structurally independent from buildings or structures and
their foundation systems, and shall be designed and constructed either to
remain intact and in place during design flood conditions or to break apart
into small pieces to minimize debris during flooding that is capable of causing
structural damage to the building or structure or to adjacent buildings and
structures.
   (O)   In coastal high hazard areas, development activities other than
buildings and structures shall be permitted only if also authorized by the
appropriate state or local authority; if located outside the footprint of, and
not structurally attached to, buildings and structures; and if analyses
prepared by qualified registered design professionals demonstrate no harmful
diversion of floodwaters or wave run-up and wave reflection that would increase
damage to adjacent buildings and structures. Such other development activities
include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Bulkheads, seawalls, retaining walls, revetments, and similar
erosion control structures;
      (2)   Solid fences and privacy walls, and fences prone to trapping
debris, unless designed and constructed to fail under flood conditions less
than the design flood or otherwise function to avoid obstruction of
floodwaters.
   (P)   Accessory structures, regardless of size or cost, shall not be
permitted below elevated structures in VE Zones.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3- 2020)
§ 151.56 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AO).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07, are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas have
special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate. In addition to §§
151.50 and
151.51, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   The reference level shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), in feet plus a
freeboard of 3 feet above the highest adjacent grade or to or above 8 feet NAVD
1988, whichever is the greater elevation.
   (B)   Non-residential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be floodproofed
to the same level as required in §
151.57 so that the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below that level shall be watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of
buoyancy. Certification is required in accordance with §§
151.50(C)(1) and
151.51(B).
   (C)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3- 2020)
§ 151.57 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (ZONE AH).
   Located within the special flood hazard areas established in §
151.07 are areas designated as shallow flooding areas. These areas are subject
to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow flooding (usually areas of ponding)
where average depths are 1 to 3 feet. Base flood elevations derived from
detailed hydraulic analyses are shown in this zone. In addition to §§
151.50 and
151.51, all new construction and substantial improvements shall meet the
following requirements:
   (A)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on slopes,
to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS
§ 151.70 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER PRIOR CHAPTER.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted October 6, 1978, as amended,
and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to
enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights
and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced.
The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action, suit or proceeding
instituted or pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance
of Dare County enacted on October 6, 1978, as amended, which are not re-
enacted herein are repealed.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.71 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any development or any part thereof
for which a floodplain development permit has been granted by the Floodplain
Administrator or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of
this chapter; provided, however, that when construction is not begun under such
outstanding permit within a period of 6 months subsequent to the date of
issuance of the outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-2020)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
Class 1 misdemeanor pursuant to G.S. § 143-215.58. Any person who violates this
chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction
thereof, be fined not more than $100 or imprisoned for not more than 30 days,
or both. Each day such violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent Dare County from taking such
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed 9-20-2006; Am. Ord. passed 5- 3-2020)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Fencing for borrow pits
Planning Board
   
152.10   Planning Board
   
152.11   Board of Adjustment
Building Codes
   
152.20   Technical codes adopted by reference
   
152.21   Copies of codes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 FENCING FOR BORROW PITS.
   (A)   Security fencing. Security fencing shall be installed around the
perimeter of any borrow pit located in the jurisdiction of unincorporated Dare
County. Such fencing shall be a minimum height of 4 feet but shall not exceed a
maximum fencing height established for the applicable zoning district. Fencing
shall be properly maintained to abate accidental access to the borrow pit area.
Failure to properly install and maintain fencing shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter and subject to all legal remedies available to Dare County. This
fencing requirement shall apply to any borrow pit that is created as a result
of mining activities authorized by the North Carolina Department of Land
Resources. This requirement shall not apply to any borrow pits that existed
prior to January 5, 2009, to natural ponds or waterways, or to any retention
basin created in conjunction with a North Carolina Division of Water Quality
stormwater permit.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BORROW PIT. An open area created by the mining of sand or other
materials.
(Ord. passed 1-5-2009; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
PLANNING BOARD
§ 152.10 PLANNING BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment; jurisdiction. There is established a board known as the
Dare County Planning Board, whose jurisdiction shall include the area within
the limits of the County as the law provides.
   (B)   Composition; appointment of members; terms; vacancies; attendance at
meetings. The Planning Board shall be composed of 7 members, who shall be
residents of the County and who shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. The Planning Board shall consist of 1 member from each of the 4
districts defined in division (C) below, and 3 members-at-large. Except for the
Chairperson and members-at-large, members must reside in the district for which
they are appointed. All members shall serve for a term of 3 years and members
may be appointed for consecutive terms. Vacancies occurring for reasons other
than expiration of terms shall be filled as they occur for the period of the
unexpired term. Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Board is considered
a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the Board. The Chairperson
and members shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners. The
Board of Commissioners shall designate 1 member of the Planning Board to serve
as the Chairperson.
   (C)   Composition of Districts.
      (1)   District One: The mainland and Roanoke Island.
      (2)   District Two: Town of Nags Head and all of Bodie Island south to
Oregon Inlet; Town of Kill Devil Hills and adjacent or nearby to the west
including but not limited to Colington Islands and Baum Bay Harbor.
      (3)   District Three: Town of Kitty Hawk, Town of Southern Shores, all
the remainder of Dare County west and north of the Town of Southern Shores.
      (4)   District Four: Hatteras Island.
   (D)   Organization; rules and records; meetings generally; quorum. The
Planning Board shall meet as needed, and all of its meetings shall be open to
the public. There shall be a quorum of four members for the purpose of taking
any official action required by this section. The Planning Board shall follow
the same rules of procedures as those adopted by the Board of Commissioners. A
copy of these adopted rules of procedures shall be maintained by the Planning
Director and posted on the Dare County website.
   (E)   Powers and duties generally.
      (1)   The Planning Board is designated as the planning agency. The
Planning Board is designated as the planning agency for the unincorporated
portions of Dare County and shall have the following assignments:
         (a)   Prepare, review, maintain, monitor, and periodically update and
recommend to the Board of Commissioners a comprehensive plan and other such
plans as deemed appropriate, and conduct related research, data collection,
mapping and analysis;
         (b)   Facilitate and coordinate citizen engagement and participation
in the planning process;
         (c)   Develop and recommend policies, ordinances, development
regulations, administrative procedures, and other means for carrying out plans
in a coordinated and efficient manner;
         (d)   Advise the Board of Commissioners concerning the implementation
of plans, including but not limited to, review and comment on all zoning text
and map amendments as required by G.S. § 160D-604;
         (e)   Exercise any functions in the administration and enforcement of
various means for carrying out plans that the Board of Commissioners may
direct;
         (f)   Provide a preliminary forum for review of special use permits,
provided that no part of the forum or recommendation may be used as a basis for
the Board of Commissioners in deciding on special use permits; and
         (g)   Perform other related duties that may be assigned by the Board
of Commissioners.
   (F)   Public comments. A public comment period shall be provided at the
beginning of each Planning Board meeting for citizens to present comments on
any land use matter in general or on specific proposals that may be under
consideration by the Planning Board. Public comments may also be mailed by U.S.
Postal Service or electronically delivered to the Planning Board.
   (G)   Oath of office. All members of the Planning Board shall, before
entering their duties, be sworn in by the Planning Board Clerk or Clerk to the
Board of Commissioners when initially appointed to the Planning Board and at
each subsequent re-appointment.
   (H)   Conflict of interest. The conflict of interest provisions of Section
22-73 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to all Planning Board
actions.
(Prior Code, § 152.10) (Ord. passed 1-6-1997; Am. Ord. passed 3-18-2019; Am.
Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 152.11 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)    Establishment; jurisdiction. There is hereby established a board
known as the Dare County Board of Adjustment, whose jurisdiction shall include
the area within the limits of the county as provided by law.
   (B)   Composition and duties.
      (1)   Composition. The Board of Adjustment shall be composed of 5 regular
members and 3 alternate members, all of whom shall be residents of the
unincorporated areas of Dare County or residents of the municipal areas of Dare
County. Alternate members shall serve on the Board in the absence or temporary
disqualification of any regular member or fill a vacancy pending appointment of
a member. Each alternate serving on behalf of any regular member has all the
powers and duties of a regular member.
      (2)   Appointment of members and qualifications. All members shall be
appointed by the Board of Commissioners and shall serve at the Board’s
pleasure. Regular or alternative members may be appointed from the Dare County
Planning Board membership.
      (3)   Terms. The terms of office for regular and alternate members shall
be 3 years. Vacancies occurring for reasons other than expiration of terms
shall be filled as they occur for the period of the unexpired term.
      (4)   Attendance. Faithful attendance at the meetings of the Board is
considered a prerequisite for the maintenance of membership on the Board.
      (5)   Compensation. All members shall be compensated in the same manner
and at the same rate as members of the Dare County Planning Board.
   (C)   Organization; rules and records; meetings generally; quorum.
      (1)   Organization; officers. The position of the Chair of the Board of
Adjustment is hereby created; the Chair shall be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners from among the membership of the Board. The Board of Adjustment
shall create and fill such additional offices as it may determine to be
necessary.
      (2)   Rules and records. The Board of Adjustment shall follow the same
rules of procedures as those adopted by the Board of Commissioners. A copy of
these adopted rules of procedures shall be maintained by the Planning Director
and posted on the Dare County website. (G.S. § 160D-308)
      (3)   Meetings. The Board shall hold regular, special, and emergency
meetings when necessary to carry out its powers and duties consistent with the
applicable provisions of state law and local ordinances. All meetings and
proceedings of the Board shall be open to the public and shall be conducted in
accordance with G.S. § 143-33C. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
in accordance with G.S. § 143-318.9 et seq.
      (4)   Quorum. There shall be a quorum of 4 members for the purpose of
taking any official action authorized by the section or by law.
      (5)   Notice. Notice procedures as set forth in Section 22-72 of the Dare
County Zoning Ordinance for quasi-judicial procedures shall be followed for
Board of Adjustment meetings.
   (D)   Conflict of interest. The conflict of interest provisions of Section
22-73 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to all Planning Board
actions.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment, upon approval of the County Manager, may hire
legal counsel to advise on legal and procedural matters within its
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 152.11) (Res. passed 4-4-2003) (Ord. passed 10-7-2013; amended
12-4-2017; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
BUILDING CODES
§ 152.20 TECHNICAL CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All volumes comprising the North Carolina State Building Code, with
amendments as adopted are hereby adopted by reference as fully as though set
forth in this chapter as the building code of unincorporated Dare County.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
§ 152.21 COPIES OF CODES.
   An official copy of each regulatory code adopted by this chapter and
official copies of all amendments to such codes, shall be kept on file in the
office of the County Building Inspector. Such copies shall be the official
copies of the codes and the amendments.
(Ord. passed 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Authority
   
153.03   Purpose
   
153.04   Substance
   
153.05   Definitions
Procedure for Subdivision Plat Approval
   
153.15   Sketch plan
   
153.16   Preliminary plat
   
153.17   Final plat
   
153.18   Exempt plats
Minor Subdivisions
   
153.20   Minor subdivisions
Standards
   
153.30   Generally
   
153.31   Reference points
   
153.32   General standards
   
153.33   Suitability of land
   
153.34   Stormwater management
   
153.35   Subdivision name
   
153.36   Street/road names and signs
   
153.37   Solid waste collection
   
153.38   Utility and other easements
   
153.39   Water and sanitary sewer systems
   
153.40   Streets
   
153.41   Compliance with other county ordinances
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.55   Records; minutes; budgetary requirements
   
153.56   Subdivision approval decisions
   
153.57   Appeals of decisions on subdivision plats
   
153.58   Amendments
   
153.59   Conflicts with other code provisions
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter will be known as the Subdivision Ordinance of Dare County.
(Prior Code, § 153.01) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.02 AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Commissioners of Dare County adopted this chapter under the
authority of state law.
(Prior Code, § 153.02) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and standards for the
development and subdivision of real estate within the county in an effort to,
among other things:
   (A)   Ensure proper legal description, identification, monumentation and
recordation of real estate boundaries;
   (B)   Further the orderly layout and appropriate use of land;
   (C)   Provide safe, convenient and economic circulation of vehicular
traffic;
   (D)   Provide suitable building sites which drain properly and are readily
accessible to emergency vehicles;
   (E)   Assure the proper installation of roads and utilities; and
   (F)   Help conserve and protect the physical and economic resources of the
county.
(Prior Code, § 153.03) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.04 SUBSTANCE.
   The Dare County Register of Deeds shall record no plat of a subdivision of
land within unincorporated Dare County until the Subdivision Administrator of
Dare County has approved a final plat of the subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 153.04) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 153.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building consisting of walls and a roof,
the use of which is clearly incidental to that of a principal building on the
same lot.
   ADMINISTRATOR, SUBDIVISION. The Dare County Planning Director shall serve as
the SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATOR unless otherwise designated by the Dare County
Manager.
   BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS. Dare County Board of Commissioners.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line within a property defining the required
minimum distance between any building and the adjacent right-of-way or lot.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot with front and rear street frontage.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or any other parcel of land intended as a
unit for transfer or ownership or for development or both. LOT includes the
words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT.
   OFFICIAL MAPS or PLANS. Any maps or plans officially adopted by the Board of
Commissioners as a guide for the development of the county.
   PLANNING BOARD. Dare County Planning Board.
   ROAD. A right-of-way for vehicular traffic. ROAD shall include the word
STREET.
      (1)   CUL-DE-SAC or MINOR DEAD-END ROAD. A road permanently terminated by
a turn-around or dead-end.
      (2)   MARGINAL ACCESS ROAD. A minor (service) road which parallels and is
immediately adjacent to a primary road or highway, which provides access to the
properties abutting it and which separates the abutting properties from high
speed vehicular traffic.
      (3)   PRIMARY ROAD. A road designed to carry heavy volumes of vehicular
traffic.
      (4)   SECONDARY or COLLECTOR ROAD. A road designed to carry medium
volumes of vehicular traffic, to provide access to the primary road system and
to provide access to abutting properties.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, owners, broker, surveyor, engineer, planner,
corporation, partnership or the like who subdivides or develops any land deemed
to be a subdivision as defined in this section.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   Any division of a tract or parcel of land into 2 or more lots,
building sites or other divisions when 1 or more of those divisions are created
for the purpose of sale or building development (whether immediate or future)
and includes all divisions of land involving the dedication of a new street or
a change in existing streets however, the following shall not be included
within this definition and is not subject to any regulations enacted in this
chapter:
         (a)   The combination or recombination of portions of previously
subdivided and recorded lots, if the total number of lots is not increased and
the resultant lots are equal to or exceed the standards of the county as
established by this chapter.
         (b)   The division of land into parcels greater than 10 acres, if no
street right-of-way dedication is involved.
         (c)   The public acquisition by purchase of strips of land for the
widening or opening of streets.
         (d)   The division of a tract of land in single ownership, the entire
area of which is no greater than 2 acres, into not more than 3 lots, where no
street right-of-way dedication is involved, and if the resultant lots are equal
to or exceed the standards of the county as established by this chapter.
         (e)   The division of a tract into parcels in accordance with the
terms of a probated will or in accordance with intestate succession under G.S.
Chapter 29.
         (f)   The combination, recombination or reconfiguration of previously
subdivided and recorded lots if the total number of lots is not increased, the
nonconforming sizes of the resultant lots are equal to the original
nonconforming lot sizes, and no other new conformities of any kind are created.
(Example: Lot A is 10,000 square feet and Lot B is 12,000 square feet. These
lots may be reconfigured such that Lot A is now 12,000 square feet and Lot B is
10,000 square feet. However, a reconfiguration that results in Lot A being,
say, 8,000 square feet and Lot B being 14,000 square feet would not be allowed
as the resultant lot sizes are not equal to the original lot sizes. Similarly,
an otherwise permitted, reconfiguration that caused an existing structure to
violate current setback requirements or other regulations would not be
permitted as the reconfiguration created a new nonconformity).
         (g)   The combination or reconfiguration of previously subdivided and
recorded lots if the total number of lots is decreased and the size of the
resultant lot(s) are equal to or greater than the originally recorded lots size
and no other new nonconformities of any kind are created. Example: two
nonconforming lots of 5,000 square feet are combined into 1 lot of 10,000
square feet.
      (2)   Dare County may provide for expedited review of subdivisions of
land as set forth in this chapter.
      (3)   A plat for recordation under the provisions of §
153.18 for the division of a tract or parcel of land in single ownership if all
of the following criteria are met:
         (a)   The tract or parcel to be divided is not exempted under division
(1)(b) of this definition.
         (b)   No part of the tract or parcel to be divided has been divided
under this definition in the 10 years prior to division.
         (c)   The entire area of the tract or parcel to be divided is greater
than 5 acres.
         (d)   After division, no more than 3 lots result from the division.
         (e)   After division, all resultant lots comply with all of the
following:
            1.   Any lot dimension size requirements of the applicable land-use
regulations, if any.
            2.   The use of the lots is in conformity with the applicable
zoning requirements, if any.
            3.   A permanent means of ingress and egress is recorded for each
lot.
(Prior Code, § 153.05) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; Am. Ord. passed 3-16-2009;
amended 3-21-2011; amended 3-21-2011; amended 8-7-2017)
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL
§ 153.15 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Contents. The subdivider may submit to the Planning Board, at least 15
days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Board, 10 copies of
a sketch plan of a proposed subdivision for review and initial feedback by the
Planning Board. This is an optional step in the subdivision review process and
a subdivider may choose to skip this step and proceed directly to submission of
a preliminary plat as outlined in §
153.16. The sketch plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A sketch map of the vicinity of the proposed subdivision showing
its location in relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads and
waterways;
      (2)   The boundaries of the entire tract in common ownership and the
portion of the tract to be subdivided;
      (3)   The total acreage to be subdivided;
      (4)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the subdivision
and the existing uses of land adjoining it;
      (5)   The proposed street layout with approximate pavement and right-of-
way width, lot layout and size of lots;
      (6)   The name, address, and telephone numbers of the owner and, if
applicable, a written and acknowledged statement of the owner designating the
subdivider or other person to act as his or her agent for the submission of
plats;
      (7)   The name, if any, of the proposed division;
      (8)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties; and
      (9)   If applicable, the zoning classification of the tract and of
adjacent properties.
   (B)   Review. The Planning Board shall review the sketch plan for general
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and other applicable policies
and shall advise the subdivider of the policies applicable to the proposed
subdivision and the procedures to be followed in the preparation and submission
of the preliminary and final plats. One copy of the sketch plan shall be
retained for the files of the Planning Board.
(Prior Code, § 153.15) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; amended 3-21-2011; amended 3-
21-2011)
§ 153.16 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Submission. The subdivider shall submit to the Planning Board, at
least 15 days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Board, 20
copies of the preliminary plat of the subdivision at a scale of 1 inch to 100
feet, drawn on a sheet 18 inches by 24 inches or such other size as may be
required for recording by the Dare County Register of Deeds. A digital version
of the preliminary plat shall also be submitted to the Dare County Subdivision
Administrator.
   (B)   Contents. A professional engineer or a land surveyor currently
licensed or registered by the North Carolina State Board of Registration for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors shall prepare the preliminary plat
and shall show or have attached to it a document showing the following
information:
      (1)   Title Block containing:
         (a)   Property designation;
         (b)   Name of owner;
         (c)   Location (including township, county and state);
         (d)   Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared;
         (e)   A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or figures;
and
         (f)   Name, address, registration number and seal of the land surveyor
and/or professional engineer.
      (2)   A map of the vicinity of the subdivision showing the relationship
between the proposed subdivision and the surrounding area;
      (3)    Corporate limits, township boundaries, county lines if on the
subdivision tract;
      (4)   The names, titles, firm association, addresses and telephone
numbers of all owners, subdividers, mortgagees, planners, architects, landscape
architects and engineers responsible for the subdivision;
      (5)   The registration numbers and seals of the professional engineers
and land surveyors;
      (6)   North arrow and orientation;
      (7)   Boundary lines of the tract to be subdivided, fully dimensioned by
lengths and bearings, and the location of existing boundary lines of adjoining
lands;
      (8)   The names of owners of adjoining properties;
      (9)   The names of any adjoining subdivision of record, proposed or under
review;
      (10)   Minimum building setback lines, front, side, and rear;
      (11)   The zoning classifications of the tract to be subdivided and
adjoining properties (if area is not zoned, that shall be indicated);
      (12)   Existing property lines on the tract to be subdivided and on
adjoining properties;
      (13)   Existing buildings or other structures, watercourses, bridges,
culverts, storm drains, both on the land to be subdivided and land immediately
adjoining;
      (14)   Proposed lot lines, lot and block numbers, and approximate
dimensions;
      (15)   Lots numbered consecutively throughout the subdivision;
      (16)   Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, mean high tide lines, vegetation
line, primary and other dunes, ponds or lakes, streams or streambeds and any
other natural features affecting the site;
      (17)   Flood hazard, floodway and floodway fringe areas;
      (18)   Base flood elevation data if available;
      (19)   The following data concerning streets:
         (a)   Proposed streets;
         (b)   Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in the
proposed subdivision;
         (c)   Rights-of-way, location and dimension;
         (d)   Pavement widths;
         (e)   Approximate grades;
         (f)   Design engineering data for all corners and curves;
         (g)   Typical street cross sections;
         (h)   Street names;
         (i)   Type of street dedications; all streets must be designated
either public or private; and
         (j)   Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into
the state system before lots are sold, a statement explaining the status of the
street and a draft street maintenance agreement.
      (20)   The location and dimensions of all:
         (a)   Utility and other easements;
         (b)   Riding trails;
         (c)   Natural buffer areas;
         (d)   Pedestrian or bicycle paths;
         (e)   Parks and recreation areas with specific type indicated;
         (f)   School sites;
         (g)   Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use;
         (h)   Areas to be used for purposes other than residential with the
purpose of each stated; and
         (i)   The proposed ownership and maintenance of recreation and open
space lands, trails, paths and the like.
      (21)   The plans for utility layouts including:
         (a)   Sanitary sewers;
         (b)   Storm sewers;
         (c)   Other drainage facilities;
         (d)   Water distribution lines;
         (e)   Natural gas lines;
         (f)   Telephone lines;
         (g)   Electric lines;
         (h)   Cable television lines; and
         (i)   Illustrative connections to existing systems, line sizes, the
location of fire hydrants, blow offs, manholes, force mains and gate valves and
the like.
      (22)   Plans for individual water supply and sewage disposal systems;
      (23)   Profiles based upon mean sea level datum for sanitary sewers and
storm sewers;
      (24)   Site calculations including:
         (a)   Acreage in total tract to be subdivided;
         (b)   Acreage in parks and recreation areas, areas of environmental
concern, and other non-residential uses, by category;
         (c)   Total number of parcels created;
         (d)   Acreage in the smallest lot in the subdivision; and
         (e)   Linear feet in streets.
      (25)    The name and location of any property or buildings within the
proposed subdivision or within any contiguous property that is located on the
U.S. Department of Interior’s National Register of Historic Places or which
have been deemed to have historical, cultural, or archaeological resources
potential by the North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources;
      (26)   If any property, or any portion of any property, or any
structures, located on any property proposed to be subdivided are determined to
be historically, culturally or archaeologically significant, or potentially
significant, the Planning Board may require a detailed evaluation of that site
or structure. If a detailed evaluation is required and the results of that
evaluation establish the validity of a cultural, historical, or archaeological
resource, the developer shall be notified in writing by the Chairman of the
Planning Board that a 90-day administrative hold on the review of the
preliminary plat has been invoked. During this 90-day period, the developer
shall take such action as may be necessary to prescriptively remove and
preserve any remnant artifacts, relocate or submit plans for the relocation or
preservation of any historic structures, or present for the Planning Board’s
consideration any other mitigation plan to address the historical, cultural or
archaeological resources on the property proposed to be subdivided (this
section adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on June 3, 1991);
      (27)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce on
the ground every straight or curved line, street lines, lot line, right-of-way
line, easement line and setback line, including dimensions, bearings or
deflection angles, radii, central angles and tangent distance for the center
line or curved property lines that are not the boundary line of curved streets.
All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest 1/10 of a foot and all angles
to the nearest minute;
      (28)   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments,
elevations, markers and control points;
      (29)   A copy of any proposed deed restrictions or similar covenants;
      (30)   A copy of the document or documents for the creation and continued
operation of the homeowners, landowners or similar association of the consumers
of the subdivision;
      (31)   Topographic map when it is determined by the Planning Board that
one is needed, with contour intervals and scale as determined by the Planning
Board;
      (32)   Boundaries of all areas of environmental concern designated in
accordance with the Coastal Area Management Act of 1974;
      (33)   If any portion of any lot within the subdivision falls within an
area of environmental concern the following notice shall be placed on the face
of the plat:
Some portions of some lots in this subdivision are located in Areas of
Environmental Concern. Individual permits may be required before development
may take place in these areas;
      (34)   All certifications and approvals required by state law including
proof that when improved in accordance with the preliminary plat the public
streets and roads will be eligible for inclusion in the state system in
accordance with G.S. § 136-102.6, or, if private, will comply with the same
standards except for stipulated exceptions;
      (35)   If the subdivision is to be developed in phases, the boundaries of
each phase and the sequence in which each phase is to be developed;
      (36)   An inventory and evaluation of the soil and water resources within
the proposed subdivision; and
      (37)   If the subdivision is within the service area of any public or
private water supply system, a statement from the chief executive office of the
system indicating if the proposed subdivision may be connected to that system.
   (C)   Review. 
      (1)   Review by other agencies. The Planning Board will submit the
preliminary plat to the District Highway Engineer and to other appropriate
agencies including review necessary to assure coordination with the North
Carolina Coastal Management Program and offices of the county for their review
and recommendations.
      (2)   Review by Planning Board.
         (a)   After considering any report and/or recommendations received in
addition to any comments which the subdivider may have, the Planning Board
shall approve the preliminary plat or identify revisions that are needed for
compliance with the standards of this chapter. These revisions shall be made as
identified by the Planning Board and made part of the preliminary plat.
         (b)   Failure on the part of the Planning Board to act within 30 days
after the plat is reviewed at a regularly scheduled Planning Board meeting
shall constitute approval by the Planning Board. This 30- day time period shall
not apply to those subdivisions for which revisions are needed for compliance
with this chapter.
      (3)   Review by Board of Commissioners.
         (a)   At the time the preliminary plat is submitted to the Planning
Board, a copy of the plat shall also be provided to the Board of Commissioners
and a report indicating the date the preliminary plat is scheduled for review
by the Planning Board. Review of a preliminary plat by the Board of
Commissioners is not required for the subdivision approval except for those
subdivisions which involve street improvements as outlined in §
153.40(E)(1) and (2). The Board of Commissioners may also request presentation
of a subdivision preliminary plat at a regularly scheduled Board of
Commissioners meeting if there are concerns about the proposed subdivision that
the Board wishes to discuss directly with the subdivider or the Planning Board.
The 30-day time limit established in §
153.16(C)(2)(b) shall not apply to those subdivisions that are subject to
review by the Board of Commissioners as set forth above.
         (b)   If the Board of Commissioners disapproves the preliminary plat,
the reasons for the action shall be stated and recommendations made on the
basis of which the proposed subdivision could be approved.
(Prior Code, § 153.16) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; amended 3-21-2011; amended 3-
21-2011)
§ 153.17 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Preparation of the final plat and installation of improvements. Upon
approval of the preliminary plat, the subdivider may proceed with the
preparation of the final plat and installation of required improvements in
accordance with the approved preliminary plat and the requirements of this
chapter. Prior to approval of a final plat, the subdivider shall have installed
the improvements specified in this chapter. The Subdivision Administrator will
accept no final plat for review unless accompanied by a statement signed by the
subdivider certifying that all of the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with and that all of the required improvements have been installed.
The final plat shall include on that portion of the preliminary plat, which the
subdivider proposed to record at that time.
   (B)   Submission of the final plat.
      (1)   Upon completion of all improvements, the subdivider shall submit to
the Subdivision Administrator the final plat, so marked.
      (2)   The final plat for the subdivision or for the first phase of the
subdivision as indicated in the sequence of phases on the approved preliminary
plat shall be submitted not more than 2 years after the date on which the
preliminary plat was approved by Dare County; otherwise approval of the
preliminary plat shall expire and be null and void.
      (3)   The Planning Board may grant an additional 12 months for the
installation of improvements and submission of the final plat if the subdivider
applies for such extension in writing before the expiration of the initial
period and has begun to install the required improvements.
      (4)   A final plat for each subsequent phase must be submitted within 12
months after the final plat for the previous phase has been approved or the
approval of the preliminary plat as to the remaining phases shall be null and
void.
      (5)   The final plat shall be prepared in accordance with the highest
professional standards by a land surveyor or professional engineer currently
licensed and registered in the State of North Carolina by the North Carolina
State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors. The
final plat shall conform to the provisions for plat, subdivisions, and mapping
requirements set forth in G.S. § 47-30 and shall show or have attached to it a
document showing the same information required for the preliminary plat.
      (6)    Three copies of the final plat shall be submitted; 1 shall be a
mylar copy suitable for recording in the Dare County Register of Deeds.
      (7)   The final plat shall be of a size suitable for recording with the
Dare County Register of Deeds and shall be at a scale of not less that 1 inch
equals 200 feet. Maps may be placed on more than 1 sheet with appropriate match
lines.
      (8)   Submission of the final plat shall be accompanied by a cashiers or
certified check payable to the Dare County Register of Deeds in the amount of
the recording fee for the final plat and related documents.
      (9)   One original copy of any covenants and/or homeowners documents
associated with the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Certification.
      (1)   The following signed and acknowledged certificates or required
portions thereof shall appear on all copies of the final plat:
Certificate of Ownership and Dedication
I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the subdivision jurisdiction of the County of Dare
and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free consent,
establish minimum building setback lines, and dedicate all streets, alleys,
walks, parks and other sites and easements to public or private use as noted.
Furthermore, I hereby dedicate all sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water lines
to the County of Dare.
_____________            __________________________________________
Date                                         Owners Signature
I, _____________________, hereby certify that ________ personally appeared
before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of this certificate.
Witness my hand and official seal this the ____ day of ______, 20__.
_______________________________ (official seal)
Signature
State of North Carolina
County of __________
I, ____________, certify that this map was (drawn by me) (drawn under my
supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual survey made under my
supervision) (deed description recorded in Book ____, Page ____, etc.) (other);
that the ratio of precision as calculated by latitudes and departure is 1:____;
that the boundaries not surveyed are shown as broken lines plotted from
information and found in Book ______, Page ______; that this map was prepared
in accordance with G.S. 47-30, as amended; and that the prescribed reference
points have been properly placed. Witness by hand and seal this _____ day of
_________, 20____.
_________________________________________
Registered Land Surveyor/Professional Engineer
Official Seal
    
________________________________________
Registration Number
I, __________________, hereby certify that ________________ personally appeared
before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of this certificate.
Witness by hand and official seal this the _____ day of ________________,
20____.
____________________________Official Seal
Signature
      (2)   Disclosure of flood and other hazards on final plats.
         (a)   If a portion of any lot on any parcel proposed for subdivision
is located, wholly or partially, in a special flood hazard area as designated
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for Dare County, the following certificate
shall be included on the final plat submitted for approval by the Dare County
Subdivision Administrator:
   “This property, or portions of this property, is located within a special
flood hazard area as designated on Flood Insurance Rate Maps for Dare County.
Location in a special flood hazard area represents a one percent (1%) or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year. Flood insurance may be
required by lending institutions for structures constructed on property located
in special flood hazard areas.”
         (b)   Any restrictive covenants for the subdivision shall also include
this same certificate. A copy of the covenants, including this certificate,
shall be submitted to the Dare County Subdivision Administrator for recordation
with the final plat.
         (c)   If a portion of a lot on any parcel proposed for subdivision is
located, wholly or partially, in a Coastal Outer Barrier Resources Areas as
determined by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the following certificate
shall be included on the final plat submitted for approval by Dare County
Subdivision Administrator:
   “This property, or portions of this property, is located within a Coastal
Outer Barrier Resources Act (CBRA) zone as determined by the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service. Location in a CBRA zone precludes the availability of
federally- insured loans and the purchase of federal flood insurance through
the National Flood Insurance Program.”
         (d)   Any restrictive covenants for the subdivision shall also include
this same certificate. A copy of the covenants, including this certificate,
shall be submitted to the Dare County Subdivision Administrator for recordation
with the final plat.
   (D)   Review by the Subdivision Administrator.
      (1)   The Subdivision Administrator shall review the final plat within 7
days of its submission to ensure consistency between the approved preliminary
plat and the final plat to ensure that all improvements have been installed as
approved. Documentation, including independent testing results on road
improvements, verifying the installation of improvements shall be submitted
with the final plat. If inconsistencies between the final plat and the approved
preliminary plat are identified, then the Subdivision Administrator shall
advise the subdivider of these inconsistencies and the subdivider shall take
appropriate actions to correct any inconsistencies. The final plat shall not be
recorded until any inconsistencies have been corrected.
      (2)   Once the Subdivision Administrator approves the final plat, the
following certificates shall be affixed to a reproducible copy of the final
plat and such plat filed by the Subdivision Administrator with the Dare County
Register of Deeds:
         (a) Certificate of Approval for Recording.
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Ordinance of Dare County and that this plat has
been approved by the Dare County Planning Board for recording in the Office of
the Register of Deeds of Dare County.
_________________________________         __________________________________
Dare County Subdivision Administrator                Date
         (b)   Certificate for Acceptance of Dedications.
I certify the acceptance of the dedication of roads, easements, rights-of-way,
public parks, and other sites for public purposes, as shown hereon, but assume
no responsibility to open or maintain same until in the opinion of the
governing body of Dare County it is in the public interest to do so.
______________________         ______________________
Dare County Manager               Date
         (c)   Review Officer Certificate.
State of North Carolina
County of __________
I, __________________________, Review Officer of Dare County certify that the
map or plat which this certification is affixed meets all statutory
requirements for recording.
_________________         _____________________________
Date                        Review Officer
         (d) Roadway notification.
Public streets: I hereby certify that these streets as installed or as designed
and guaranteed are in accordance with the minimum design criteria presently
required by the NC Department of Transportation, Division of Highways, for the
acceptance of subdivision streets on to the State system for maintenance.
                                                                                                                                   
Date            District Engineer, NC Dept. of Transportation, Division of
Highways
Private streets: Roadways within this subdivision do not meet the standards of
the NC Department of Transportation.
      (3)   If the final plat is disapproved by the Planning Board, the reasons
for the disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the provisions of
this chapter with such reasons and 1 print of the plat shall be retained by the
Planning Board as part of its proceedings; one copy of the reason and 1 copy of
the plat shall be transmitted to the subdivider. If the final plat is
disapproved the subdivider may make such changes as will bring the final plat
into compliance and resubmit it for reconsideration by the Planning Board as if
it were an original submission of a final plat.
(Prior Code, § 153.18) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; amended 3-21-2011; amended 3-
21-2011; amended 1-20-2015; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 153.18 EXEMPT PLATS.
   (A)   Survey.
      (1)   A survey of any proposed land division shall be submitted to the
Subdivision Administrator for a determination if the proposed land division is
specifically exempted as outlined in the definition of a subdivision found in §
153.05.
      (2)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines that an exemption
applies, the Subdivision Administrator shall acknowledge such determination by
signature of the exempt survey. The plat may then be submitted to the Dare
County Review Officer for compliance with applicable North Carolina statutes.
upon approval by the Review Officer, the Dare County Subdivision Administrator
shall record the survey in the Dare County Register of Deeds. All necessary
review fees and recordation fees shall be submitted to the Subdivision
Administrator at the time an exempt determination is made by the Subdivision
Administrator.
   (B)   Plat certificates for exempt plans.
      (1)   The following certificates shall be included on all exempt plats
that are recorded in the Dare County Register of Deeds:
   Certificate of Approval for Recording
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been determined to
be an exempt division as defined in the Dare County Subdivision Ordinance
section  (to be filled in upon signature) .
                                                                                                   
Dare County Subdivision Administrator               Date
   Review Officer Certificate
State of North Carolina
County of Dare
I,                                          , Review Officer of Dare County
certify that the map or plat which this certification is affixed meets all
statutory requirements for recording.
                                                                                                    
Date                                    Review Officer
      (2)   Disclosure of flood and other hazards on exempt plats.
         (a)   If a portion of any tract of land proposed for subdivision under
the exempt plat procedures as established in this chapter is located, wholly or
partially, in a special flood hazard area as designated on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map for Dare County, the following certificate shall be included on the
exempt plat submitted to the Dare County Subdivision Administrator for
recordation:
   “This property, or portions of this property, is located within a special
flood hazard area as designated on Flood Insurance Rate Maps for Dare County.
Location in a special flood hazard area represents a one percent (1%) or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year. Flood insurance may be
required by lending institutions for structures constructed on property located
in special flood hazard areas.”
         (b)   If a portion of any tract of land proposed for subdivision under
the exempt plat procedures as established in this chapter is located, wholly or
partially, in a Coastal Outer Barrier Resources Areas as determined by the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, the following certificate shall be included on the
exempt plat submitted to the Dare County Subdivision Administrator.
   “This property, or portions of this property, is located within a Coastal
Outer Barrier Resources Act (CBRA) zone as determined by the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service. Location in a CBRA zone precludes the availability of
federally- insured loans and the purchase of federal flood insurance through
the National Flood Insurance Program.”
   (C)   If the Subdivision Administrator determines that the proposed
subdivision does not meet any of the exemption conditions, the Subdivision
Administrator shall advise the property owner of the applicable review
procedures for either a minor or a major subdivision.
(Adopted 3-21-2011; amended 3-21-2011; amended 1-20-2015)
MINOR SUBDIVISIONS
§ 153.20 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following standards shall apply to minor subdivisions:
   (A)   Minor subdivision. A residential subdivision that involves the
platting and recordation of 6 or less lots. Lots platted and recorded as part
of a minor subdivision shall be limited to single-family residential use, and
shall not be used for commercial or industrial purposes, regardless of the
applicable zoning district or other land use ordinances. This residential
limitation shall not be intended to preclude the location of mobile homes or
modular homes on lots developed as part of a minor subdivision, if these
structures are permitted in the applicable zoning district. This residential
limitation shall not be interpreted to preclude the location of home
occupations or other commercial accessory uses that may be permitted in certain
zoning districts in unincorporated Dare County.
   (B)   Streets. All street improvements in a minor subdivision shall consist
of a minimum of a 30-foot-wide right-of-way, with 18-foot-wide paved
improvements located internal to this right-of-way area. The paved improvements
shall be constructed to the sub-base and base material specifications and other
design criteria of the North Carolina Department of Transportation. Roadside
swales for the purpose of stormwater retention and/or drainage shall be
installed within the right-of-way. The maintenance of the street improvements
and swales, once installed, shall be the responsibility of the abutting
property owners. A certificate establishing the maintenance responsibility for
the street improvements shall be included on the final plat, and such
information shall also be conveyed to purchasers of the lots as a feature of
the deed to such lots.
      (1)   Statement, inspections and certificate. The subdivider shall
submit, as a part of the preliminary plat, the signed statement of a North
Carolina-licensed professional engineer, stating that the proposed streets, as
designed, will meet all of the requirements of this section. The subdivider
shall provide for inspections to ensure that the streets are being constructed
in accordance with the approved preliminary plat, by an independent, licensed
professional engineer during the construction process, whose reports are to be
submitted to the Planning Board in accordance with a schedule submitted and
approved as part of the preliminary plat. As a part of the final plat, the
subdivider shall submit a certificate of an independent, licensed professional
engineer that the streets have been constructed in accordance with the approved
preliminary plat.
      (2)   Street standards. Street improvements approved and recorded as part
of a minor subdivision shall not be used as access for other property or other
development unless the streets are improved to a level consistent with the
street standards of §
153.40(A)(1).
   (C)   Lot size. For zoned areas, all lots in a minor subdivision shall meet
the minimum lot size requirements of the applicable zoning district.
   (D)   Utility locations. Easements for utilities shall be established along
the front of each proposed lot. Such easements shall be a minimum of 15 feet,
and shall be depicted on the final plat and clearly demarked as utility
easements. No other structural improvements, other than driveway improvements,
may be located within the designated utility easement area.
   (E)   Plat certificates. The following certificates shall be included on all
minor subdivision plats that are recorded in the Dare County Register of Deeds
office:
      (1)   Minor subdivision certificate.
Minor Subdivision Certificate
This subdivision has been approved as a minor subdivision under the standards
of the Dare County Subdivision Ordinance. The lots in this subdivision shall be
used for single-family residential purposes. This residential limitation for
minor subdivision lots shall not preclude the location of home occupations or
other commercial accessory uses as may be permitted in certain zoning districts
in unincorporated Dare County. Maintenance of all infrastructure improvements,
including roads and swales, shall be the sole responsibility of the property
owners.
      (2)   Certificate of ownership.
Certificate of Ownership
I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in the regulatory jurisdiction of the County of Dare,
and that I hereby adopt this plan of subdivision with my free consent. I hereby
dedicate all water lines to the County of Dare.
I, ________________, hereby certify that ____________ personally appeared
before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of this certificate.
Witness my hand and official seal this the _____ day of 20___.
__________________________ (official seal)
Signature
State of North Carolina
County of _______
      (3)   Certificate of approval for recording. 
Certificate of Approval for Recording
I hereby certify that the subdivision plat shown hereon has been found to
comply with the Subdivision Ordinance of Dare County, and that this plat has
been approved by the Dare County Planning Board for recording in the Office of
the Register of Deeds of Dare County.
__________________                     _____________
Dare County Subdivision Administrator            Date
      (4)   Review officer certificate.
Review Officer Certificate
State of North Carolina
County of Dare
I, ________________________, Review Officer of Dare County certify that the map
or plat to which this certification is affixed meets all statutory requirements
for recording.
____________________                  __________________________
Date                              Review Officer
      (5)   Certificate for acceptance of dedications. 
Certificate for Acceptance of Dedications
I certify the acceptance of the dedication of roads, easements, rights-of-way,
public parks, and other sites for public purposes, as shown hereon, but assume
no responsibility to open or maintain same until in the opinion of the
governing body of Dare County, it is in the public interest to do so.
____________________               __________________
Dare County Manager                  Date
      (6)   Al appropriate and applicable certificates for the registered land
surveyor/professional engineer.
   (F)   Other subdivision standards. All other standards of the Dare County
Subdivision Ordinance shall apply except as specifically exempted in the above
section.
   (G)   Exceptions. For minor subdivisions that involve a total acreage of 3
acres or less, an exception to the minor subdivision road standards may be
granted, if the following conditions may be met:
      (1)    A perpetual easement shall be recorded to provide access to the
proposed lots. Such easement shall not be less than 20 feet in width, and the
level of surface improvements for the easement shall be sufficient to carry the
weight of fire trucks and sanitation service vehicles. The easement shall not
be used for access to other developments or properties.
      (2)   A maneuvering area shall be provided for emergency and service
vehicles. This area may be provided on each lot or as a common area shared by
the proposed lots. Such area shall not be used for other purposes.
      (3)   Additional easements as needed for stormwater and utility
improvements shall be provided on the individual lots.
      (4)   It shall be acknowledged on the plat that individual solid waste
service and school bus pick-up service may not be available due to the lack of
improved street improvements.
      All other standards for minor subdivisions shall apply.
(Ord. passed 9-2-2008; amended 3-21-2011; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
STANDARDS
§ 153.30 GENERALLY.
   Each subdivision shall comply with the design standards of this chapter as
minimums and shall contain the improvements specified which shall be installed
and paid for by the subdivider. Land shall be dedicated or reserved as
required.
(Prior Code, § 153.30) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.31 REFERENCE POINTS.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, permanent reference points shall
have been placed in accordance with the following requirements:
   (A)   Subdivision corner tie. At least 1 corner of the subdivision shall be
designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily discernible reference
marker.
   (B)   Monuments. Within each block of a subdivision at least 2 monuments
designed as control corners shall be installed. The surveyor shall employ
additional monuments when necessary. Monuments shall be constructed of concrete
with steel reinforcing rods running their entire length and shall be at least 4
inches in diameter or square and not less than 3 feet in length. Each monument
shall have imbedded in its top or attached by a suitable means a metal plate of
noncorrosive material and marked plainly with the point, the surveyor’s
registration number and the words monument or control corner. A monument shall
be set at least 30 inches in the ground, unless this requirement is impractical
because of vehicular traffic or other factors. Elevation above sea level shall
be shown on the metal plate on at least 1 of the monuments.
   (C)   Stakes. Each lot shall be adequately staked to show the boundaries of
the lot with stakes not less than 3 feet long and driven into the ground not
less than 2 feet.
(Prior Code, § 153.31) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.32 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The design and development of subdivisions shall preserve the natural
terrain, natural drainage, existing topsoil, trees and natural vegetation to
the maximum extent possible.
   (B)   All subdivisions shall be designed to be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (D)   All lots, improvements, structures and utilities shall comply with the
applicable Areas of Environmental Concern (AEC) Standards and any other rules
promulgated pursuant to the Coastal Area Management Act of 1974.
   (E)   (1)   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined
with due regard to:
         (a)   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated;
         (b)   Requirements of the Zoning Code of Dare County;
         (c)   Needs for vehicular and pedestrian circulation;
         (d)   Control and safety of street traffic;
         (e)   Limitations and opportunities of topography; and
         (f)   Convenient access to water areas.
      (2)   Length shall not be greater 1,400 nor less than 400 feet. Blocks
shall have sufficient width to allow 2 tiers of lots of minimum depth except
where single tier lots are required to separate residential development from
through vehicular traffic or another type of use, in nonresidential
subdivision, or where abutting a water area.
      (3)   If there are more than 4 lots fronting on a highway, a frontage
road may be required.
      (4)   If more than 4 lots front on a public or private street, a frontage
access easement may be required to alleviate driveway cuts on the street. The
access easement shall be paved to the NCDOT criteria for subdivision streets
and shall be 20 feet in width unless a greater width is required for emergency
access vehicle service as determined by input from the Dare County Fire Marshal
and/or Emergency Medical Services Director. The access easement shall be
located across the front of all proposed lots between the front property line
and the building setback line for each lot. The impervious area of the access
easement shall not be calculated in the lot coverage limitation applied to each
lot in the division. Required parking for the individual lots shall be provided
outside of the access easement, however parallel parking along the frontage
access easement may be provided for compliance with the parking standards of
Section 22-56 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance. Maintenance of the access
easement shall be the responsibility of the abutting property owners and
addressed in restrictive covenants for the subdivision that are recorded in the
Dare County Register of Deeds in conjunction with the final plat of the
subdivision.
      (5)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian walk may
be required to provide convenient access to a public area such as a park or
school, to a water area or to areas such as shopping centers, religious or
transportation facilities.
   (F)   Lots shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Orientation of lot lines. Side lot lines shall be substantially at
right angles or radial to street lines.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. Lots should have a minimum width of not less
than 75 feet measured at the front building setback line.
   (H)   (1)   All lots in new subdivisions shall conform to the requirements
of the Zoning Code for the district in which the subdivision is located.
Conformance means, among other things, that the smallest lot in the subdivision
must meet all dimensional requirements of the Zoning Code. It is not sufficient
merely for the average lot to meet such requirements.
      (2)   No land area shall be omitted from a plat when to do so would have
the effect of creating a residual parcel of inadequate lot size.
      (3)   In unzoned areas, lots shall meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Area. All lots served by an approved central water supply system
shall have an area of not less than 15,000 square feet; all lots served by
individual well sources shall have an area not less than 20,000 square feet.
Additional lot size may be required when soil conditions in the area to be
subdivided are classified as provisionally suitable as currently defined by the
North Carolina Department of Human Resources, Division of Health Services,
Environmental Health Section (codified as 10 NCAC 10A. 1934-1968).  
         (b)   Building setback lines. The minimum setback from property lines
shall be as follows and shall be recorded on the final plat:
            1.   From the front property line – 25 feet;
            2.   From the side property lines – 10 feet;
            3.   From the rear property lines – 20% of lot depth but not to
exceed 20 feet; except, in the case of an accessory building the setback shall
be no less than 5 feet; and
            4.   From the side property line which abuts a street – 15 feet.
   (I)   The Planning Board may recommend the use of a buffer strip adjacent to
major roads and to commercial or industrial development which would be part of
the platted lots but have the following restriction on the face of the plat:
This strip reserved for the planting of trees or shrubs by the owner; the
building of structures prohibited;
   (J)   All telephone, electric, cable, television, and other utility service
within subdivisions shall be installed underground.
(Prior Code, § 153.32) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 153.33 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   (A)   If, based on an inventory and evaluation of the soil and water
resources of the tract under consideration, the Planning Board determines that
the tract or a portion of the tract is not suited for the use proposed, that
area shall not be platted unless (1) the subdivider has permanently remedied
the condition which made the land unsuitable or (2) all the area requirements
of the ordinance are met by each lot without including the unsuitable land in
the calculation. Areas that have been used for disposal of solid waste shall
not be subdivided unless tests by the County Health Department, a structural
engineer and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for the purpose
proposed.
   (B)   Land which the Planning Board finds to be unsuited for development due
to improper drainage, topography, soil characteristics, ground water elevation,
susceptibility to flooding or failure to met the criteria of G.S. Ch. 130A
shall not be subdivided, unless adequate methods are utilized to correct the
unsuitable conditions. Any land disturbing activity shall be accomplished in
accordance with the requirements of G.S. Ch. 113A, Art. 4. Any required land
preparation must be completed prior to submission of the final plat for
approval.
(Prior Code, § 153.33) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.34 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Stormwater drainage systems.
   The subdivider shall provide a surface water drainage system constructed to
the standards of the North Carolina Department of Transportation, subject to
the approval of the Planning Board.
      (1)   No surface water shall be channeled or directed into a sanitary
drainage system.
      (2)   Where feasible, the subdivider shall connect to an existing storm
drainage system.
      (3)   Where an existing storm drainage system cannot be feasibly extended
to the subdivision, a surface drainage system shall be designed to protect the
proposed development from water damage.
      (4)   Surface drainage course shall have side slopes of at least 3 feet
of horizontal distance for each 1 foot of vertical distance, and courses shall
be of sufficient size to accommodate the drainage area without flooding, and
designed to comply with the standards and specifications for erosion control of
the North Carolina Sedimentation Pollution Control Act.
      (5)   The minimum grade along the bottom of a surface drainage course
shall be a vertical fall of at least 1 foot in each 200 feet of horizontal
distance.
      (6)   Stream banks and channels downstream from any land disturbing
activity shall be protected from increased velocity of runoff from the land
disturbing activity in accordance with the North Carolina Sedimentation
Pollution Control Act.
      (7)   Anyone constructing a dam or impoundment within the subdivision
must comply with the North Carolina Dam Safety Law.
      (8)   In all areas of special flood hazards, all subdivision proposals
shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
   (B)   Stormwater plans.
      (1)   For those subdivisions that involve more than 1 acre of land
disturbance work for the construction of roads and other improvements, the
application and approval process for the North Carolina Division of Water
Quality shall be considered the stormwater management plan of record for Dare
County. A copy of the approved stormwater management plan prepared by the
developer and the permit issued by the State of North Carolina shall be
submitted with the preliminary plat submitted for review to the Dare County
Planning Board.
      (2)   For those divisions that involve less than 1 acre of land
disturbance work for the construction of roads and other improvements, a
detailed stormwater management and drainage plan shall be provided at the time
of preliminary plat submission to the Dare County Planning Board. Such plans
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Total area of the site and proposed impervious coverage of
proposed roads, parking areas, and other amenities to be developed.
         (b)   Total amount of land disturbing activity stated in square feet.
         (c)   A table that lists the maximum amount of lot coverage in square
feet allowed on each proposed lot according to the applicable zoning standard.
         (d)   Typical cross-sections of roadside swales including the minimum
side slopes.
         (e)   Size and materials of any culverts or piping to be used in the
division. Any proposed retention basins or other drainage improvements.
         (f)   Other information pertaining to the items listed above that may
be requested by the County Engineer or Dare County Planning Board.
   (C)   Stormwater standards.  
      (1)   All roadside swales shall be established as retention areas and
shall be shaped and stabilized with grass or sod at time final plat approval is
requested from the Dare County Planning Board. Swales designed for the
conveyance of stormwater shall be approved by the County Engineer prior to
construction.
      (2)   Proposed subdivisions must maintain a minimum 30-foot wide setback
area between all road improvements and these surface waters of Dare County: the
Atlantic Ocean, Pamlico Sound, Roanoke Sound, Currituck Sound, Albemarle Sound,
Croatan Sound, Alligator River, East Lake, South Lake, Stumpy Point Bay, Broad
Creek, Sandy Bay, Shallowbag Bay, Kitty Hawk Bay, Buzzard Bay and any natural
tributaries and bays of these waters.
      (3)   Driveway culverts or driveway slope areas shall be maintained by
individual property owners or the homeowners association.
      (4)   No homeowner/lot owner/developer/ contractor/ shall be allowed to
fill in, alter, or pipe any roadside swales shown on the drainage plan approved
in conjunction with the final subdivision plat. Violation of this provision
shall be a misdemeanor under G.S. § 14-4 and each day's continuing violation
shall be a separate offense. Notwithstanding the criminal penalties, the county
may institute a civil action against the offender, seek enforcement by
appropriate equitable remedy, injunction and order of abatement or by any
remedy authorized by G.S. § 160A-175. Restoration of the drainage improvements
to the original status shall also be required.
      (5)   Amendments or changes to the drainage improvements after final plat
recordation may be approved by the County Engineer if the County Engineer
determines that such changes will not impact the entire drainage system for the
division or any public road improvements.
      (6)   Each of the lots in the subdivision shall be limited to the amount
of lot coverage of the applicable zoning district.
      (7)   A letter of certification from the engineer or designer of the
stormwater improvements shall be submitted with the final plat certifying that
all stormwater improvements have been installed as approved during preliminary
subdivision plat review.
      (8)   Language shall be included on the preliminary plat, final plat, and
in the homeowners covenants as follows:
         (a)   The maximum amount of lot coverage per lot shall not exceed the
allowable square footage as indicated on the approved stormwater plan for this
division. Lot coverage shall be as defined in Section
22-2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
         (b)   Driveway culverts shall be installed according to the standards
of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance and in accordance with the stormwater plans
approved in conjunction with this division. Driveway improvements may be sloped
to retain the shape of the retention basins in lieu of driveway culverts if
approved by the Dare County Engineer.
      (9)   Where any proposed driveway, roadway, walkway, or other improvement
crosses an established drainage feature such as, but not limited to, roadside
ditches, swales, streams or others, a culvert pipe shall be installed in order
to maintain the anticipated flow of water through the drainage feature or to
allow leveling of the retained volume. The following minimum standards for
culverts shall apply:
         (a)   Culvert pipes shall be constructed using HDPE plastic pipe,
concrete pipe, or other materials approved by the NC Department of
Transportation. A list of approved culvert materials is available by contacting
the NCDOT District Engineers office.
         (b)   All culvert pipe shall be a minimum of 15 inches in diameter.
The pipe shall be of a sufficient length so that the graded side-slopes from
the top of the driveway roadway, or walkway, to the top of the pipe are no
steeper than 1 vertical foot to 3 horizontal feet (1:3). Larger pipe sizes may
be required depending upon the size of the drainage feature or based upon the
anticipated stormwater flows.
         (c)   Culverts shall be installed so that the bottom of the pipe is
slightly bedded into the maintained bottom of the ditch or swale. An adequate
driveway or roadway cover shall be installed above the culvert in order to
prevent damage to the pipe. The minimum depth of cover based on the intended
use of the crossing shall be as recommended by the pipe manufacturer.
         (d)   Culvert pipe shall be protected from erosion through the
installation of vegetation, stone rip rap, or other commonly accepted erosion
control measures.
         (e)   The property owner shall be responsible for maintenance and
repair of driveway culverts. This includes the removal of sediment material
that may build up at the ends of the culvert pipe or any other debris that
interferes with the normal function of the culvert piping.
      (10)   Subdivision roads that feature culvert piping as part of an
approved stormwater management plan shall be installed to the design standards
of the NC Department of Transportation for subdivision entrance roads including
type of materials proposed for use and dimensional requirements for the culvert
piping. (See NCDOT manuals NC Standards and Specifications for Roads and
Structures and Guidelines for Drainage Studies and Hydraulic Design.)
      (11)   The final plat for any division shall include language and/or a
table that depicts the amount of lot coverage/impervious area coverage
authorized by the State.
(Prior Code, § 153.34) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.35 SUBDIVISION NAME.
   The name of the subdivision shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the
name of an existing subdivision within Dare County.
(Prior Code, § 153.35) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.36 STREET/ROAD NAMES AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Streets and roads shall be named and such names shall be indicated on
signs designed, constructed and placed in accordance with existing policy of
Dare County.
   (B)   All street name signs and traffic control signs shall be installed by
the subdivider in the subdivision before submission of the final plat for
review and approval by the Dare County Planning Board.
(Prior Code, § 153.36) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.37 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Planning Board may require, for each 25 lots, a site, not
exceeding 400 square feet, which is easily accessible by conventional
containerized waste collection vehicles, to be reserved for the location of
solid waste containers for public or private solid waste collection.
   (B)   Each site shall be improved with pavement or other permanent material
to ensure unimpeded ingress and egress by waste collection vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 153.37) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.38 UTILITY AND OTHER EASEMENTS.
   Easements shall be provided as follows:
      (A)   Easements for underground utilities shall be provided where
necessary, across lots or centered on rear or side lot lines and shall be at
least 10 feet wide for water and sanitary sewer lines and as required by the
utility companies involved, for telephone, gas and power lines. The Planning
Board will determine whether 1 easement is sufficient or whether several
easements are necessary to accommodate the various facilities and the
subdivider shall provide the required easements.
      (B)   A crosswalk easement no less than 8 feet in width shall be provided
when such is required by the Planning Board.
      (C)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse, and
such further width as will be adequate for the purpose. Parallel streets or
parkways may be required in connection therewith.
      (D)   Where a subdivision is adjacent to the Atlantic Ocean, an easement
for dune maintenance adjacent to the mean high water mark may be required, or
such other provisions as to dune maintenance may be required by the Planning
Board.
      (E)   Lakes, ponds, creeks and similar areas within the county will be
accepted for maintenance only if such is recommended by the Planning Board and
approved by the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 153.38) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.39 WATER AND SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Each lot in all subdivisions within the county’s jurisdiction shall be
provided with an extension of the county water system at the subdivider’s
expense if in the judgment of the Board of Commissioners there is adequate
unused capacity in the system to serve the subdivision and if the Planning
Board determines that the existing system is sufficiently close to the
subdivision to make such an extension feasible.
   (B)   All lots in subdivisions not connected to municipal or county water
and/or sanitary sewer systems must have a suitable source of water supply and
sanitary sewage disposal, which complies with the regulations of the Dare
County Health Department and with the applicable laws of North Carolina.
(Prior Code, § 153.39) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.40 STREETS.
   (A)   Public streets. All subdivision lots shall abut a public street. All
public streets shall be built to the standards of this chapter and all other
applicable standards of the county and the State of North Carolina. Public
streets which are eligible for acceptance into the state highway system shall
be constructed to the standards necessary to be put on the state highway system
and shall be put on such system. Streets which are not eligible to be put on
the state highway system because there are too few lots or residences shall,
nevertheless, be dedicated to the public and shall be built in accordance with
the standards necessary to be put on the state highway system so as to be
eligible to be put on the system at a later date. An executed maintenance
agreement with provisions for maintenance of the street until it is put on the
state highway system shall be included with the final plat.
      (1)   All street improvements shall consist of a minimum 45-foot-wide
right-of-way, with 20-foot-wide paved improvements located internal to this 45-
foot right-of-way. All pavement and sub-base materials used in the construction
of the street improvements shall be consistent with applicable NCDOT standards
for acceptance into the state highway maintenance system. All proposed street
improvements shall be built to be consistent with all other applicable NCDOT
standards, including but not limited to, roadway design, utility placement,
drainage improvements.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit, as a part of the preliminary plat, the
signed statement of a North Carolina-licensed professional engineer, stating
that the proposed streets as designed will meet all of the requirements of this
section. The subdivider shall provide for inspections to ensure that the
streets are being constructed in accordance with the approved preliminary plat,
by an independent, licensed professional engineer during the construction
process, whose reports are to be submitted to the Planning Board in accordance
with a schedule submitted, and approved as part of the preliminary plat. As a
part of the final plat, the subdivider shall submit a certificate of an
independent, licensed professional engineer that the streets have been
constructed in accordance with the approved preliminary plat.
      (3)   The ownership of the streets shall be conveyed to a home or lot
owners’ association or similar organization. The subdivider must submit
evidence that the ultimate owner of the streets will be institutionally and
fiscally capable of maintaining the streets and rights-of-way to the specified
standards in perpetuity. The subdivider must agree to maintain the streets
until the owners’ organization is fully functional, and must agree to
contribute to that organization its share of the maintenance for all lots
retained by the subdivider or successor.
      (4)   The final plat, the uniform covenants and each deed conveying lots
in the subdivision shall plainly indicate that the streets are dedicated to
public use, and their maintenance is the responsibility of the owners'
organization in perpetuity, or until the streets are accepted into the state
highway system.
   (B)   Private streets. (Reserved)
   (C)   Subdivision street disclosure statement. All streets shown on the
final plat shall be designated in accordance with North Carolina state law and
designation as public shall be conclusively presumed an offer of dedication to
the public. Where streets are dedicated to the public but not accepted into the
state highway system, before lots are sold, a statement explaining the status
of the street shall be included with the final plat.
   (D)   Conformity of proposed streets to existing maps or plans. The location
and width of all proposed streets shall be in conformity with official plans or
maps of the county and with existing or amended plans of the Planning Board.
   (E)   (1)   Continuation of existing streets. The proposed street layout
shall be coordinated with the existing road system of the surrounding area and
where possible, existing principal streets shall be extended. However, no new
subdivision shall be approved if the primary means of ingress and egress to the
subdivision connects to a road that is not eligible for, and cannot be upgraded
to meet the standards for, acceptance into the NCDOT’s secondary road system.
When a new subdivision is proposed to interconnect to a non-eligible road, that
road must be upgraded to meet eligibility standards. Such upgrades may be
established as a condition of approval of the preliminary plat of the new
subdivision, and must be completed prior to the approval of the final plat of
the new subdivision.
      (2)   Exemption of land otherwise inaccessible. If a tract or parcel is
proposed to be subdivided and the only means of ingress and egress is by way of
an existing interconnecting road ineligible for inclusion on the NCDOT
secondary road system, the proposed subdivision may be approved once the Board
of Commissioners has concluded that the existing interconnecting road to the
proposed new subdivision does not pose unacceptable risks to public health and
safety.
   (F)   Access to adjacent properties. Where in the opinion of the Planning
Board, it is desirable to provide access to an adjoining property, proposed
streets shall be extended by dedication to the boundary of such property, and a
temporary turnaround shall be provided.
   (G)   Large tracts or parcels. Where land is subdivided into larger parcels
than ordinary building lots, the parcels shall be arranged so as to allow for
the opening of future roads and logical further subdivision.
   (H)   Common driveways. Common driveways may be permitted from public or
private streets, upon a determination by the Planning Board in which the Board
of Commissioners concurs that such driveways will not endanger or diminish the
public health, safety and welfare. The following standards shall apply to
common driveways:
      (1)   A common driveway is constructed to serve as supplemental access
along elongated portions of flag lots or irregular-shaped lots. FLAG LOTS shall
be defined as a lot design that features an elongated portion or “pole”, the
length of which extends to the remaining portion of the lot area. Common
driveways shall be a minimum of 12 feet in width, and shall be paved consistent
with the standards of §
153.40(A)(1). Additional width may be required by Dare County, depending on the
design and location of the proposed common drive. An individual common driveway
shall not be used to provide access to more than 4 lots.
      (2)   Common driveways shall not exceed 200 feet in length, and a
turnaround area for maneuvering of public service vehicles shall be required at
the terminus of the common driveway. For common driveways that are 100 feet or
less in length, a turnaround area shall not be required. The design of common
driveways and turnaround areas shall be reviewed and approved by the Dare
County Fire Marshal, Dare County Public Works, Dare County Emergency Services
Director and the Dare County Engineer before any preliminary plat featuring
common driveways is reviewed by the Dare County Planning Board.
      (3)   All common driveway improvements shall be constructed following
preliminary plat approval by the Dare County Board of Commissioners. As part of
the final plat review, a certificate from a North Carolina-licensed
professional engineer shall be submitted, stating that all common driveways
have been constructed as depicted on the preliminary plat.
      (4)   Maintenance of the common driveways shall be the responsibility of
the subdivision homeowners’ association and/or the individual lot owners using
the common driveway. The final plat shall include language to this effect and
such information shall also be noted in homeowners’ documents created for the
subdivision.
      (5)   Common driveways shall not be used to facilitate the platting of
additional subdivision lots which would be better served by a street. Common
driveways may be used in lieu of a frontage road for lots fronting on a highway
as detailed in §
153.32(E)(3) of this chapter, upon a determination by the Planning Board in
which the Board of Commissioners concurs that the use of common driveways
better serves the public health, safety and welfare.
      (6)   Individual flag lots shall provide access along the elongated or
pole portion of the lot with a minimum width of 12 feet. This access area shall
be improved with gravel, stone, rock, marl, clay, turf-stone, or other surface
that will accommodate access by emergency service vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 153.40) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; Am. Ord. passed 1-7-2008; Am.
Ord. passed 6-2-2008; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 153.41 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER COUNTY ORDINANCES.
   No division of land shall be authorized for recordation if the resultant
lots would create a non- conformity under the standards of the Dare County
Zoning Ordinance or any other ordinance in effect for unincorporated Dare
County.
(Ord. passed 9-5-2006)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.55 RECORDS; MINUTES; BUDGETARY REQUIREMENTS.
   The Board of Commissioners and the Planning Board shall provide for the
appropriate keeping of records, minutes and other proceedings held with respect
to the Planning Board’s responsibility under the terms of this chapter, and the
Board of Commissioners may provide for the budgetary requirements as may be
necessary in the administration of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 153.55) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982)
§ 153.56 SUBDIVISION APPROVAL DECISIONS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat approval. Written notice of preliminary plat approval
shall be issued by the Dare County Subdivision Administrator. Such notice may
be delivered in electronic or print form.
   (B)   Final plat approval and plats exempt from Planning Board review.
Written notification of recordation of a final plat or exempt plat following
approval by the Dare County Subdivision Administrator shall be provided after
such plat has been recorded in the Dare County Register of Deeds. Such notice
may be delivered in electronic or print form.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 153.57 APPEALS OF DECISIONS ON SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Any approval of a subdivision plat may be appealed and is subject to review
by filing action in Dare County Superior Court seeking appropriate declaratory
or equitable relief within 30 days from receipt of written notice of the
decision. Such decision shall be made as provided in §
153.56.
(Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 153.58 AMENDMENTS.
   This chapter may be amended as needed by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners in accordance with the notice procedures found in Section 22-72
of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance for legislative hearings and other
procedures for legislative decisions.
(Prior Code, § 153.56) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 153.59 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER CODE PROVISIONS.
   Should the requirements of this chapter conflict with those of
Chapter 155, Appendix A, of the Dare County Code, the more stringent
requirements shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 153.57) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who, being the owner or agent of the owner of any land located
within the planning and development jurisdiction of Dare County, thereafter
subdivides his or her land in violation of the regulation or transfers or sells
land by reference to, exhibition of, or any other use of a plat showing a
subdivision of the land, before the plat has been properly under such
regulation and recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds, shall be guilty
of a Class 1 misdemeanor. The description of metes and bounds in the instrument
of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring
shall not exempt the transaction from this penalty. Dare County may bring an
action for injunction of any illegal subdivision, transfer, conveyance or sale
of land, and the court shall, upon appropriate findings, issue an injunction
and order requiring the offending party to comply with the subdivision
regulation. Building permits required pursuant to G.S. § 160D-1108 may be
denied for lots that have been illegally subdivided. In addition to other
remedies, Dare County may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to
prevent the unlawful subdivision of land, to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation, or to prevent any illegal act or conduct.
(Prior Code, § 153.99) (Ord. passed 11-29-1982; Am. Ord. passed 6-1-2021)
CHAPTER 154: WELLS
Section
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Application of chapter
   
154.03   Permit required before construction or drilling of deep well;
conditions for issuance
   
154.04   Issuance or denial of permit
   
154.05   Conditional permits; additional conditions applicable to all permits
   
154.06   Environmental impact statements; contents; copies to be submitted to
Secretary of the Board of Commissioners
   
154.07   Restrictions on use of certain wells
   
154.08   Exemptions from provisions
Cross-reference:
   Water regulations, see
Chapter 51
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEEP WATER WELL. Any well drilled for the purpose of extracting fresh water,
which well head or point extends to a depth exceeding 100 feet below the
surface ground level.
   DEEP WELL. Any well drilled for any purpose the well head or point for which
extends to a depth exceeding 100 feet below the ground surface level.
   SIGNIFICANTLY AFFECTED. Denotes, but is not limited to, contamination of the
fresh water aquifer by salt or nonpotable mineralized water to the extent that
the chemical limits for raw water as adopted and published by the state’s
Department of Health are exceeded; or that the effects of the proposed well, in
conjunction with the existing wells, will cause the standards to be exceeded or
the planned pumping capacity of the proposed well, individually or severally
with all existing wells, will reduce the internal pressure within the aquifer
to such extent as to allow intrusion of salt or nonpotable mineralized water
into the aquifer.
(Prior Code, § 154.01) (Ord. passed 4-2-1973)
§ 154.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply uniformly throughout the county and all areas lying
outside the municipal boundaries of any incorporated city or town in the
county; provided, that any city or incorporated municipality desiring to adopt
the provisions of this chapter may, by ordinance, elect to make the provisions
of this chapter applicable in the incorporated municipality, in which case the
officials and employees of the county are hereby authorized to carry out the
provisions of this chapter within the incorporated municipality.
(Prior Code, § 154.02) (Ord. passed 4-2-1973)
§ 154.03 PERMIT REQUIRED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION OR DRILLING OF DEEP WELL;
CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   Prior to the commencement of construction or drilling of any deep well,
application for a permit shall be made to the Building Inspector, who may issue
a permit or a conditional permit upon the following conditions:
   (A)   Submission of the environmental impact study required in
§ 154.06;
   (B)   A determination in writing by the board of commissioners that, after
consideration of the environmental impact statement required in
§ 154.06 by the Board of Commissioners, its engineer and affected state and
federal agencies, the proposed well, if constructed, will not adversely affect
the aquifer and specifically will not cause the intrusion of salt water and
nonpotable mineralized water to such an extent that the aquifer will be
significantly affected;
   (C)   Submission of a complete set of engineering plans of the proposed
project in 5 copies to the Building Inspector for consideration by the county,
its engineer and affected state and federal agencies; and
   (D)   The obtaining by the developer of the necessary approval and permits
as required by the State Board of Health and the State Department of Water and
Air Resources, as applicable, for the proposed project, and as may be required
by G.S. Ch. 87, Art. 7, part 2, Ch. 143, Art. 21, and other applicable laws.
(Prior Code, § 154.03) (Ord. passed 4-2-1973)
§ 154.04 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   Upon completion of the conditions of
§ 154.03, the Building Inspector shall, within 60 days, either issue a permit
authorizing the construction of a well in accordance with the approved
engineering plans or deny the permit. Upon denial of the permit, the person
aggrieved shall have 10 days in which to request a hearing before the Board of
Commissioners by service of written notice of appeal from the decision of the
Building Inspector upon the Board of Commissioners. Within 30 days after the
service, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a hearing, at a time and place
designated by the Board of Commissioners, at which time the Board of
Commissioners may uphold the decision of the Building Inspector, direct the
issuance of a permit by the Building Inspector, or direct the issuance of a
conditional permit by the Building Inspector, which may require compliance with
the reasonable conditions as may not be contrary to the intent and purposes of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.04) (Ord. passed 4-2-1973)
§ 154.05 CONDITIONAL PERMITS; ADDITIONAL CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL PERMITS.
   (A)   As provided in
§ 154.04, the Building Inspector may issue a conditional permit or, upon appeal
from the decision of the Building Inspector denying a permit, the Board of
Commissioners may direct the issuance of a conditional permit. The conditions
so required may be any conditions that are reasonable and which require the
employment of good engineering practices and safety precautions, the
modification and revision of engineering plans so as to reduce the likelihood
of contamination of the aquifer, the substitution of materials and equipment
and the requirement of additional materials and equipment in order to reduce
the likelihood of the contamination and the employment of additional personnel,
engineers and operators as good engineering practices may dictate in order to
carry out the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   All permits issued in accordance with this chapter shall contain the
provision and condition that the developer shall do no act and shall allow no
act to be done which results in contamination of the aquifer and cause the
intrusion of salt water or nonpotable mineralized water to such an extent that
the aquifer will be significantly affected and that the act, if done, shall
result in the suspension of the permit, and all operations conducted in
accordance with the permit shall cease until the act and the contamination
resulting thereby shall have been eliminated.
   (C)   As a further condition in all permits issued under this chapter, the
county, its officials and employees shall have the right to inspect and
investigate the well site and its operations at any time in the course of their
employment and in the operation and enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.05) (Ord. passed 4-2-1973)
§ 154.06 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENTS; CONTENTS; COPIES TO BE SUBMITTED TO
SECRETARY OF THE BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to G.S. § 113A-8, any special purpose unit of government or
private developer proposing to construct a deep water well or well project
shall submit a detailed statement setting forth the following:
      (1)   The environmental impact of the proposed action, including the
impact of any proposed well or series of wells on the aquifer and the effect
thereby created on the aquifer by the wells when pumped at maximum capacity;
      (2)   Any significant adverse environmental effects which cannot be
avoided should the proposal be implemented;
      (3)   Mitigation measures proposed to minimize the impact;
      (4)   Alternatives to the proposed action;
      (5)   The relationship between the short term uses of the environment
involved in the proposed action and the maintenance and enhancement of long
term productivity; and
      (6)   Any irreversible and irretrievable environmental changes which
would be involved in the proposed action should it be implemented, including
the possibility of salt water and nonpotable mineralized water intrusion into
the aquifer.
   (B)   The special purpose unit of government or developer shall submit at
least 10 copies of the environmental impact statement to the Secretary of the
Board of Commissioners for review by the Commissioners, its engineer and
affected state and federal agencies. Those guidelines relating to the
preparation of such environmental impact statements included in G.S. Ch. 113A,
Art. 1, shall be used in the preparation of the statement required by this
section.
(Prior Code, § 154.06) (Ord. passed 4-2-1973)
§ 154.07 RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF CERTAIN WELLS.
   Any well drilled within the county for purposes other than the extraction of
fresh water and which exceeds a drilled depth of 100 feet shall not be used for
the extraction of fresh water until the time as the requirements of this
chapter for the construction of deep water wells have been met and a permit
issued therefor.
(Prior Code, § 154.07) (Ord. passed 4-2-1973)
§ 154.08 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Any developer holding a permit issued by the petroleum division of the
Department of Conservation and Development under G.S. Ch. 113, Art. 27, shall
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person or any developer constructing wells for which the aggregate
pumping capacity shall not exceed 100,000 gallons per day shall be exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 154.08) (Ord. passed 4-2-1973)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Section
   
155.01   Adopted by reference
   
Appendix A: Zoning Ordinance
§ 155.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Ordinance for the county set forth in full in Appendix A hereto
is hereby adopted by reference. Copies thereof also may be found on file in the
office of the Clerk to the Board of Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 155.01) (Ord. passed 8-16-1993; Am. Ord. 12-6-2004)
APPENDIX A: ZONING ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 22: Zoning
   For state law as to Planning Board generally, see 2-12 to 2-20.
   As to Planning Board generally, see 2-12 to 2-20.
   As to Albemarle Area Commission generally, see 2-12 to 2-20.
   As to airport zoning, see 3-16 to 3-27.
   As to buildings generally, see Ch. 6.
   As to floods and flood hazards generally, see Ch. 9.
   As to subdivision of land generally, see ch. 18.
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL.
22-1   Authority for enactment and purposes of chapter (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-2   Definitions (Revised by DCBC on 11-5-1990, 6-17-1991, 11-16-1992, 9-19-
1994, 6-16-1997, 8-2-1999, 10-16-2000, 5-6-2002, 6-3-2002, 4-7-2003, 5-6-2011,
8-20-2012, 1-22-2013, 4-15-2013, 3-20-2015, 5-16-2015, 2- 1-2016, 3-19-2018,
10-15-2018, 6-21-2021, 11-15-2021, 1-2-2024)
22-3   Interpretation of chapter; conflicting provisions
22-4   Territorial applicability of chapter (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-5   Compliance with chapter - use, occupancy, and construction requirements
22-6   Same – height, bulk, density, lot coverage, yard and open space
requirements
22-7   Combination of required spaces
22-8   Reduction of yards or lots below minimum requirements
22-9   One principal building per lot
22-10   Lot access requirements
22-11   Vision clearance at intersections
ARTICLE II.  DISTRICT REGULATIONS
22-12   Zoning districts established; official zoning map (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-13   Interpretation of district boundaries
22-14   Classification of added territory
22-15   Schedule of district regulations adopted; amendments generally
22-16   N–H Natural Historic District (Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 5-17-2023)
22-16.1   C-PR Conservation Public Recreation District (Adopted by DCBC 12-5-
1994; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-16.2   Buxton Natural Historic District (BNH) (Adopted 6-4-2012; Amended 6-
21-2021)
22-16.3   East Lake Natural Historic District (ELNH) (Adopted 4-15-2013;
Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 4-20-2022; Amended 5-17-2023)
22-17   RS-1 Single-family Residential Zoning District (Amended 6-21-2021;
Amended 5-17-2023)
22-17.1   MP-1 Single Family Residential District (Residential portions of
Martin’s Point Subdivision – Adopted by the DCBC on 10-16-2000) (Amended 6-21-
2021)
22-17.2   MP-C Neighborhood Commercial District (Adopted 11-6-2023)
22-18   RS-6 Multi-family Residential District (Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-
21-2021)
22-19   RS-8 Multi-family Residential District (Amended 5-21-2018; Amended 10-
15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-20   RS-10 Multi-family Residential District (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-21   R-1 Low Density Residential District (Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 4-20-
2022; Amended 5-17-2023)
22-21.1   R-1A Low Density Residential District (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-22   R-2 Medium Density Residential District (Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-
21-2021)
22-22.1   R-2A Alternative Medium Density Residential District (Amended 10-15-
2018; Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 12-4-2023)
22-22.2   R-2B Alternative Medium Density Residential District (Adopted by DCBC
on 6-16-1997; Amended by the DCBC on 4-7-2008; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-
21-2021; Amended 11-7-2022)
22-22.3   R2-H Medium Density Residential District (Amended 10-15-2018; Amended
6-21-2021)
22-22.4   R2-AH Alternative Medium Density Residential District for Hatteras
Village (Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-22.5   SP-2 Alternative Residential District (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-23   R-3 High Density Residential District (Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-
21-2021; Amended 11-15-2021)
22-23.1   R-4 Low Density Residential District (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-23.2   MH-A Manns Harbor/Mashoes Zoning District (Adopted by DCBC on 5-21-
2007;Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 5-17-2023; Amended 1-2-
2024)
22-23.3   MH-B Manns Harbor/Mashoes Zoning District (Adopted by DCBC on 5-21-
2007; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 5-17-2023)
22-23.4   East Lake Residential Zoning District (ELR) (Adopted 4-15-2013;
Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 5-17-2023)
22-23.5   East Lake Village Commercial District (ELVC) (Adopted 4-15-2013;
Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-24   C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-24.1   SP-C Neighborhood Commercial District (Amended 3-19-2018; Amended 6-
21-2021)
22-24.2   SNC Skyco Neighborhood Commercial District (Adopted by DCBC on 6-28-
2007; Amended 11-20-2017; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-25   C-2 General Commercial District (Amended 3-19-2018; Amended 10-15-2018;
Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 11-15-2021; Amended 10-2-2023)
22-25.1   C-2H General Commercial District (Amended 3-19-2018; Amended 10-15-
2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-26   C-3 Commercial District (Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021; Amended
9-20-2021)
22-26.1   C-S Commercial Services District (Amended 4-17-2017; Amended 6-21-
2021)
22-26.2   East Lake Commercial Services District (ELCS) (Adopted 4-15-2013;
Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27   I-1 Industrial District (Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.1   S-1 Special District (Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.2   V-C Village Commercial District (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.3    SED-1 Special Environmental District
22-27.4    HOD-1 Height Overlay District (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.5   VC-2 Village Commercial (Amended 3-19-2018; Amended 6-21-2021;
Amended 12-2-2024)
22-27.6   AO Airport Overlay District
22-27.7   Wanchese Village Residential Zoning District (VR) (Adopted by the
DCBC on 3-24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 5-17-2023)
22-27.8   Waterfront Residential Zoning District (WR-1) (Adopted by the DCBC on
3-24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 6-21-2021; Amended 5-17-2023)
22-27.9   Baumtown Traditional Zoning District (BT) (Adopted by the DCBC on 3-
24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.10   Residential Business Zoning District 1 (RB) (Adopted by the DCBC on
3-24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.11   Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District 1 (NC) (Adopted by the DCBC
on 3-24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.12   Historic Mill Landing Marine District (HML) (Adopted by the DCBC on
3-24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.13   Wanchese Village Commercial Zoning District (WVC) (Adopted by the
DCBC on 3-24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-27.14   Harbor Road Marine Commercial Zoning District (MC-2) (Adopted by the
DCBC on 3-24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021;
Amended 9-3-2024)
22-27.15   Wanchese Wharf Marine Commercial Zoning District (MC-1) (Adopted by
the DCBC on 3-24-2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-
2021; Amended 11-4-2024)
22-27.16   Highway 345 Business District (Hwy 345) (Adopted by the DCBC on 6-5-
2006; Amended 2-20-2017; Amended 6-18-2018; Amended 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-
2021)
22-27.17   Wanchese Seafood Industrial Park (WSIP) (Adopted by the DCBC on 3-
24-2006)
22-27.18   Dimensional Standards for Sections 22-27.7 to 22-27.17 (Adopted by
the DCBC on 3-24-2006; revised by the DCBC on 6-5-2006)
22-27.19   Non-conforming uses and structures (Adopted by the DCBC on 3-24-
2006; Amended by the DCBC on 6-5-2006)
22-27.20   Performance standards and other information (Adopted by the DCBC on
3-24-2006; Amended by the DCBC on 6-5-2006; Amended 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE III.  EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS GENERALLY
22-28   Walls and fences
22-28.1   Motorized off-road recreational equipment
22-28.2   Bona fide farming (Adopted 6-21- 2021)
22-28.3   Family care homes (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-28.4   Setbacks for swimming pools and other accessory uses (Adopted 6-21-
2021)
22-29   Variances as to height limits
22-29.1   Family Child Care Home Procedures (Amended by the DCBC on 5-16-2011;
Amended 6-21-2021)
22-29.2   Wireless Telecommunications Facilities (Adopted by the DCBC on 6-21-
1999; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-29.3   Wind Energy Systems (Adopted by the DCBC on 4-18-2011; Amended 6-21-
2021)
22-29.4   Alternative Energy Projects for Dare County Schools (Adopted by the
DCBC on 7-18-2011; Amended 6-21-2021)
22-29.5   Solar Energy Systems (Adopted 8-7-2017)
22-30   Reduction of front yard setback requirements
22-31   Group Development Projects (Amended by the DCBC on 6-2-2008; paragraph
added by the DCBC on 9-2-2008; Amended 11-20-2017; Amended 6-21-2021; Amended
9-3-2024)
22-31.1   Cluster Home Developments (Adopted 10-15-2018; Amended 6-21-2021;
Amended 5-17-2023)
ARTICLE IV. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
(Deleted from Ordinance by the DCBC on 9-19-1994)
22-32 through 22-41
ARTICLE V.  MOBILE HOME AND TRAILER PARKS
(Deleted from Ordinance by the DCBC on 9-19-1994)
22-42 through 22-45
ARTICLE VI.  NON-CONFORMITIES
22-46   Intent of article
22-47   Non-conforming lots of record (adopted by DCBC 4-7-2003)
22-48   Non-conforming uses of land
22-49   Non-conforming structures
22-50   Non-conforming uses of buildings or of buildings and premises in
combination
22-51   Repairs and maintenance
22-52   Permitted special uses not non-conforming (Amended 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE VII.  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
22-53   Off-street parking – required
22-54   Same - general standards and requirements (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-55   Same - standards and requirements for parking lots (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-56   Same - number of spaces required
22-57   Off-street loading
ARTICLE VIII.  MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
22-58   Water supply and sewage disposal (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-58.1   Sand Dune Provisions (Adopted by the DCBC on 11-19-2001; Amended 6-
21-2021)
22-58.2   Reserved
22-58.3   Reserved
22-58.4   Special Regulations for Electronic Gaming Operations (Adopted 8-20-
2012)
22-58.5   Food Stands and Mobile Food Units (Adopted 3-19-2018; Amended 6-21-
2021; Amended 10-18-2021)
22-58.6   Accessory Dwelling Units (Adopted 10-15-2018; Amended 4-20-2022)
22-58.7   Workforce housing regulations (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-58.8   Educational housing projects (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-58.9   Special use subdivisions (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-58.10   Portable storage containers and portable storage unit services
(Adopted 1-2-2024)
22-59   Reserved
22-59.1   Dish Antennas
22-60   Outdoor lighting
22-61   Prohibited use of major recreational equipment parked or stored
elsewhere than in approved trailer parks
22-62   Access to U.S. Highway 158 bypass, U.S. Highway 64 and U.S. 264
22-62.1   Disclosure of flood and other hazards (Amended 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE IX.  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
22-63   Role of Planning Director and Planning Department staff (Amended 6-21-
2021)
22-63.1   Permitted uses and special uses (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-64   Approval of permitted uses and determinations (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-65   Procedures for special use permit review and approval (Adopted 6-21-
2021; Amended 2-3-2025)
22-66   Health Department approval (Amended 6-1-2021)
22-67   Forms and applications (Amended 6-1-2021)
22-68   Temporary Uses (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-69   Enforcement (Amended 6-21-2021)
22-69.1   Appeal of administrative decisions (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-70   Quasi-judicial procedures (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-71   Quasi-judicial zoning decisions (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-72   Notice procedures (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-73   Conflicts of interest (Adopted 6-21-2021)
DIVISION 2. CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
22-81   Amendments (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-82   Planning Board review (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-83   Board of Commissioners review (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-84   Legislative hearings (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-85   Citizen comments (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-86   Dare County Land Use Plan consistency and reasonableness (Adopted 6-21-
2021)
22-87   Permit choice (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-88   Vesting plans (Adopted 6-21-2021)
22-88.1   Development agreements (Adopted 6-21-2021)
Cross-reference:
   For Planning and Development, see
Chapter 152
ARTICLE I. GENERAL
SECTION 22-1 - AUTHORITY FOR ENACTMENT AND PURPOSE OF CHAPTER
In accordance with Chapter 160D of the North Carolina General Statutes, the
Dare County Board of Commissioners has adopted zoning regulations in
conjunction with a zoning map depicting zoning districts for unincorporated
Dare County. From time to time the ordinance may be amended, supplemented, or
changed. This chapter has been prepared in accordance with a comprehensive plan
(Dare County Land Use Plan) for the development of the unincorporated portions
of Dare County and is designed to promote health and the general welfare; to
avoid undue concentration of population; and to facilitate the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public
requirements. The Dare County Planning Board is designated by the Board of
Commissioners as the planning agency to assist in the administration of this
ordinance as needed with the Dare County Planning Director designated as the
lead official responsible for the implementation and enforcement of this
chapter.
(11-20-75, art. 1, 1.03)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-2 - DEFINITIONS
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by the section:
Accessory business use - Any use that occurs in conjunction with a principal
business use which is subordinate to the primary or majority business activity.
(Adopted 8-20-2012)
Accessory dwelling unit - A secondary dwelling unit established on one parcel
in conjunction with a principal dwelling unit. Accessory dwelling units shall
be subordinate in floor area, bulk, and height to principal dwelling unit. An
accessory dwelling unit may be included as part of the principal dwelling unit,
attached to the principal dwelling unit by an enclosed walkway, or entirely
detached from the principal dwelling unit. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
Accessory equipment structure - A building or cabinet-like structure located
adjacent to, or in the immediate vicinity of, a wireless support tower or
antenna to house equipment customarily incidental to the receiving or
transmitting of wireless broadcasts, cellular telephone calls, voice messaging
and paging services.
Accessory use - A use, which is clearly incidental to and customarily, found in
connection with the principal use and located on the same lot with such
principal use. This shall include such uses as swimming pools, tennis courts,
private piers and docks, private boathouses, and garages. (Adopted on 6-16-97)
Administrative decision - Decisions made in the implementation, administration,
or enforcement of development regulations that involve the determination of
facts and the application of objective standards set forth in this chapter or
other Dare County ordinances. This definition includes the term administrative
determinations.
Administrative hearing - A proceeding used to gather facts to aid in an
administrative decision or administrative determination.
Alley - A minor right-of-way, dedicated to public use, which affords a
secondary means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise
abutting a street and which may be used for public utility purposes.
Alternative tower structure - Clock towers, sculptures, bell steeples, utility
poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that conceal the
presence of antennas or WSS.
Antenna - Communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and
receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of
wireless communications services.
Antenna, stealth - Antenna and related equipment designed to blend into
surrounding environment or integrated into the physical structure to which it
is attached.
Applicable codes - The North Carolina State Building Code and any other uniform
building, fire, electrical, plumbing, or mechanical codes adopted by a
recognized national code organization together with state or local amendments
to those codes enacted solely to address imminent threats of destruction of
property or injury to persons.
Application - A request submitted by an applicant to Dare County for a permit
to collocate wireless facilities or to approve the installation, modification,
or replacement of a utility pole or wireless support facility.
Average of the Peak - Midway point between the highest point of the roof or
peak and the bottom of the eaves. Cupolas and observation towers shall not be
used in determining the peak. (Adopted on 11-16-92)
Base station - A station at a specific site authorized to communicate with
mobile stations, generally consisting of radio receivers, antennas, coaxial
cables, power supplies, and other associated electronics.
Bed and breakfast home - A single-family dwelling that consists of a single
dwelling unit, together with the rental of not more than three (3) dwelling
rooms on a daily or weekly basis to tourists, vacationers, or other transients;
where the provision of meals, if provided at all, is limited to the breakfast
meal; and where the bed and breakfast operation is conducted by persons who own
and reside within the dwelling unit with the assistance of not more than the
equivalent of one (1) full-time employee. (Adopted on 6-17-91)
Bedroom - See sleeping room.
Bedroom equivalent - An area or room other than a designated bedroom where
daybeds, sleeper sofas, cots, or other furniture designed for sleeping is
located. (Adopted by DCBC on 8-2-99)
Board of Commissioners - Dare County Board of Commissioners.
Bona fide farming - As set forth in G.S. § 106-581.1:
   1.   The cultivation of soil for the production and harvesting of crops,
including but not limited to, grains, fruits, vegetables, sod, ornamental and
flowering plants.
   2.   The planting and production of trees and lumber.
   3.   Dairying and the raising, management, care and training of livestock,
including horses, bees, poultry, and all other animals for individual and
public use, consumption, and marketing.
   4.   Aquaculture as defined in G.S. § 106-758.
   5.   The operation, management, conservation, improvement, and maintenance
of a farm and the structures and buildings on the farm, including building and
structure repair, replacement, expansion, and construction incident to the
farming operation. This shall include existing or new residences constructed to
the North Carolina Building Code situated on the farm occupied by the owner,
lessee, or operator of the farm.
   6.   When performed on the farm, "agriculture", "agricultural", and
"farming" also include the marketing and selling of agricultural products,
agritourism, the storage and use of materials for agricultural purposes,
packing, treating, processing, sorting, storage, and other activities performed
to add value to crops, livestock, and agricultural items produced on a farm,
and similar activities incident to the operation of a farm.
   7.   A public or private grain warehouse or warehouse operation where grain
is held ten days or longer and includes, but is not limited to, all buildings,
elevators, equipment, and warehouse consisting of one or more warehouses
sections and considered a single delivery point with the capability to receive,
load out, weight, dry, and store grain.
   8.   The production of a non-farm product that the Department of Agriculture
and Consumer Services recognizes as a "Goodness Grows in North Carolina"
product that is produced on a farm subject to a conservation agreement under
G.S. § 106-743.2.
Brewery - A facility licensed by the State of North Carolina to produce,
manufacture and distribute malt beverages. The total amount of malt beverages
produced at a brewery shall not exceed 10,000 barrels annually. (Adopted 7-21-
14)
Buffer strip - A device of material or space used to provide sight and sound
screening from adjoining properties. The required height and width of the
buffer strip and the materials used in its construction vary according to use.
Where a buffer strip is required under the provisions of this chapter, the
Planning Director shall approve such buffer strip.
Building - Any structure enclosed and isolated by exterior walls and
constructed or used for residence, business, industry or other public purposes.
The word “building” includes the word “structure.”
Building, accessory - A subordinate building consisting of walls and a roof,
the use of which is clearly incidental to that of a principal building on the
same lot.
Building height - The vertical distance measured from the lowest finished grade
under the approximate center of the structure to the top of the highest roof
structure. Cupolas and other similar architectural features are not to be
included in the determination of the highest roof structure. Basements shall
not be used in the determination of building height and shall be defined as the
lowest story of a building located below the natural ground level. All sides
shall be located below the natural ground level to qualify as a basement.
(Adopted 10-16-2000)
Building permit - An official administrative authorization issued by the local
government prior to beginning construction consistent with the provisions of
state law.
Building, principal - A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot on which it is located.
Building setback line - A line parallel to or concentric with the street right-
of-way establishing the minimum allowable distance between such right-of-way
and the nearest portion of any building, excluding the outermost three feet of
any uncovered porches, step, eaves, gutters and similar fixtures.
Certificate of occupancy - Certificate of occupancy for a building or structure
issued by the Dare County Building Inspector certifying compliance with the
North Carolina Residential and/or Building Code and authorizing occupancy of
the building or structure.
Certificate of zoning compliance - A certificate issued by the Dare County
Planning Director certifying zoning compliance for any building, structure,
land use or special use permit. This is a separate permit than the certificate
of occupancy issued by the Building Inspector.
Cluster home development - A residential group development project consisting
of more than one residential dwelling on one parcel of land whereby the
dwellings are occupied on a long-term basis. Such developments are subject to
review and approval according to the provisions of Section
22-31.1 of the Zoning Ordinance. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
Collocation - The placement, installation, maintenance, modification, operation
or replacement of wireless facilities on, under, within, or on the surface of
the earth adjacent to existing structures, including utility poles, water
towers, buildings, and other structures capable of structurally supporting the
attachment of wireless facilities. This term does not include the installation
of new utility poles or wireless support structures.
Commercial Child Care Center - Child care arrangement located in a non-
residential setting or structure. The total number of children provided care
shall be as determined by the guidelines used by the North Carolina Division of
Child Development.
Commercial storage yard - An open site that provides space for a fee for the
storage of boats and boat trailers; recreational vehicles, travel trailers, and
campers; automobiles; utility trailers; contractors’ towable storage trailers,
and similar types of vehicles and equipment. This does not include dry-stack
storage of boats. (As adopted on 8-15-11)
Communications facility - The set of equipment and network components,
including wires and cables and associated facilities used by a communications
service provider to provide communications services.
Communications service provider - A cable operation as defined in 47 U.S.C. §
522(5); a provider of information service as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(24); a
telecommunications carrier as defined in 47 U.S.C. § 153(53) or a wireless
provider.
Conditional zoning - A legislative zoning map amendment with site-specific
conditions incorporated into the zoning map amendment.
Condominium - Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building thereon, which would normally be used by all the occupants,
together with individual ownership in fee of a particular dwelling unit in such
building.
Determination - A written, binding order regarding an administrative decision.
Developer - A person, including a governmental agency or redevelopment
authority, who undertakes development and owns the property to be developed, or
who has been authorized to develop the property by the owners.
Development - Any of the following:
   1.   The construction, erection, altercation, enlargement, renovation,
substantial repair, movement to another site, or demolition of a structure.
   2.   Excavation, grading, filling, clearing, or alteration of land.
   3.   Subdivision of land.
   4.   Initiation or substantial change in the use or the intensity of the use
of land.
Development approval - A written administrative or quasi-judicial approval made
pursuant to this chapter approval that is required to begin development or a
specific activity, project, or developmental proposal. Development approvals
include, but are not limited to, zoning permits, site plan approvals, special
use permits, variances, and certificates of appropriateness.
Development regulation - A zoning regulation, subdivision regulation, erosion
and sedimentation control regulation, floodplain or flood damage prevention
regulation, stormwater control regulation, wireless telecommunication facility
regulation, state building code, or any other regulation adopted in accordance
with North Carolina General Statutes.
Distributive antenna systems (DAS) - A single network of spatially separated
antenna nodes connected to a common source via transport medium that provides
wireless service within a geographic area or structure. Distributive antenna
systems (DAS) are a stealth form of a wireless system.
Dog agility training facility - A privately-owned facility at which handlers
train dogs in agility exercises by use of obstacles courses and other training
techniques. Both indoor and outdoor areas may be utilized in the training of
the dogs. Participation at the facility is limited by membership and training
services are provided by appointment only to members of the dog training
facility. No kennel, boarding, or veterinarian services shall be provided at
such a training facility. (Adopted 1-22-2013)
Drive-in restaurant or refreshment stand - Any place or premises used for sale,
dispensing or serving of food, refreshments or beverages in automobiles,
including those establishments where customers may serve themselves and may eat
or drink the food, refreshments or beverages on the premises.
Duplex - A residential dwelling consisting of two units located on one parcel
with independent living facilities for one or more persons in each unit
including permanent provisions for sleeping, living, eating, cooking, and
sanitation. The two units shall be connected or share a common floor to ceiling
wall or connected vertically and share a common floor/ceiling. Use of an
unenclosed or enclosed walkway to connect two units does not constitute a
duplex but would be considered an accessory dwelling unit as defined in this
section. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
Dwelling, single-family - A detached building designed for or occupied
exclusively by one family.
Dwelling, multiple - A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for three or more families living independently of each other and
doing their own cooking therein, including apartment houses.
Dwelling, two-family (duplex) - A detached building divided horizontally or
vertically, and designed for or occupied by two single-family housekeeping
units contained entirely under one roof and having one dividing partition
common to each unit, or having the ceiling structure of the lower unit as the
floor structure of the unit above.
Dwelling unit - A single unit providing complete independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
Electronic gaming operations - Any for-profit business enterprise, whether
principal or accessory, where persons utilize electronic machines or devices,
including but not limited to, computers and gaming terminals, to conduct games
of odds or chance, including sweepstakes, and where cash, merchandise, or other
items of value are redeemed or otherwise distributed, whether or not the value
of such distribution is determined by electronic games played or by
predetermined odds. Such business or enterprises have as a part of its
operation the running of one or more games or processes with any of the
following characteristics: (1) payment, directly or as an intended addition to
the purchase of a product, whereby the customer receives one or more electronic
sweepstakes tickets, cards, tokens or similar items entitling or empowering the
customer to enter a sweepstakes , and without which time the customer would be
unable to enter the sweepstakes; or (2) payment, directly or as an intended
addition to the purchase of a product; whereby the customer can request a no
purchase necessary free entry of one or more sweepstakes tickets or other item
entitling the customer to enter a sweepstakes. The term electronic gaming
operations includes, but is not limited to cyber-gaming establishments,
internet cafes, internet sweepstakes, beach sweepstakes, video sweepstakes or
cybercafes, who have a finite pool of winners. This definition does not include
any lottery permitted by the State of North Carolina. (Adopted 8-20-12)
Electronic machine or device - A mechanically, electrically- or electronically-
operated machine or device, that is owned, leased, or otherwise possessed by a
sweepstakes sponsor or promoter, or any of the sweepstakes sponsor’s or
promoter’s partners, affiliates, subsidiaries or contractors, that is intended
to be used by a sweepstakes entrant, that uses energy, and that is capable of
displaying information on a screen of other mechanism. This section is
applicable to an electronic machine or device whether or not:
   1.   It is server-based.
   2.   It uses a simulated game terminal as a representation of the prizes
associated with the results of the sweepstakes entries.
   3.   It utilizes software such that the simulated game influences or
determines the wining or value of the prize.
   4.   It selects prizes from a predetermined finite pool of entries.
   5.   It utilizes a mechanism that reveals the content of a predetermined
sweepstakes entry.
   6.   It predetermines the prize results and stores those results for
delivery at the time the sweepstakes entry results are revealed.
   7.   It utilizes software to create a game result.
   8.   It requires a deposit of any money, coin, or token of the use of any
credit card, debit card, prepaid card, or any other method of payment to
activate the electronic machine or device.
   9.   It requires direct payment into the electronic machine or device, or
remote activation of the electronic machine or device.
   10.   It requires purchase of a related product.
   11.   The related product, if any, has legitimate value.
   12.   It reveals the prize incrementally, even though it may not influence
if a prize is awarded or the value of any prize awarded.
   13.   It determines and associates the prize with an entry or entries at the
time the sweepstakes is entered.
   14.   It is a slot machine or other form of electrical, mechanical, or
computer game. (Adopted 8-20-2012)
Eligible facilities request (EFR) - A request for modification of an existing
wireless tower or base station that involves collocation of new transmission
equipment or replacement of transmission equipment but does not involve a
substantial modification.
Equipment compound - An area surrounding or near the base of a wireless support
structure within which a wireless facility is located.
Evidentiary hearing - A hearing to gather competent, material, and substantial
evidence in order to make findings for a quasi-judicial decision required by a
development regulation in this chapter.
Fall zone - The area in which a wireless support structure may be expected to
fall in the event of a structural failure, as measured by engineering
standards.
Family - One or more persons occupying a single-family dwelling unit; provided
that unless all members are related by blood or marriage, no such family shall
contain more than five persons.
Family care home - A home with support and supervisory personnel that provides
room and board, personal care and habilitation services in a family environment
for not more than 6 resident persons with disabilities. Persons with
disabilities means a person with a temporary or permanent physical, emotional,
or mental disability including but not limited to mental retardation, cerebral
palsy, epilepsy, autism, hearing and sight impairments, emotional disturbances,
and orthopedic impairments, but not including mentally ill persons who are
dangerous to others as defined in G.S. § 122C-3(11)b.
Family Child Care Home - Any child care program or child care arrangement
wherein any person not excluded in G.S. § 110-86 (2) provide child care on a
regular basis of at least once a week for more than four hours per day for more
than two children under the age of 13 years of age and for fewer than six
children at any one time, wherever operated and whether or not operated for
profit. The four-hour limit applies regardless of the time of day and
regardless of whether the same or different children attend. Cooperative
arrangements among parents to provide care for their own children as a
convenience rather than for employment are not included. To determine whether a
childcare arrangement is a childcare home, all children shall be counted except
for the operator’s own school-aged children and school-aged children who reside
at the location of the day care home. Notwithstanding the limitation to five
children prescribed above, the childcare home operator may care for three
additional school-aged children. (Adopted on 11-5-90)
Floor area - The sum of all floors located with the building envelope
(footprint) including the exterior walls, roof overhangs, uncovered decks,
stairways, balconies, and storage areas. Parking areas located on the ground
floor of a building may be excluded if such areas are not fully enclosed by
walls and/or garage doors. (Adopted on 2-1-2016)
Floor area ratio - The gross floor area of a building divided by the total area
of the lot expressed as a decimal fraction amount. Wetland areas shall be
included in the overall land area for the basis of calculating the total area
of the lot. (Adopted on 2-1-2016)
Food establishment - An operation that is conducted in a mobile, stationary,
temporary or permanent facility or location and where consumption is on
premises or off the premises. (Adopted 3-19-2018)
Food stand - Any food establishment that prepares or serves food and does not
provide indoor seating facilities for customers to use while eating or
drinking. A permitted food stand may elect to provide tables and not more than
eight seats for customers to use while eating and drinking on the premises.
Such seating shall be provided in an unenclosed, outdoor area. (Adopted 4-15-
2013; amended 3-19-2018)
Guest-room - A room or group of rooms available for rent in a bed and breakfast
home that is used or intended for habitation and sleeping but not for cooking
or eating purposes. (Adopted on 8-2-99)
Hotel - A commercial establishment that contains multiple guest rooms for the
purpose of providing overnight lodging facilities to the general public for
compensation, with or without meals and/or other services, and which has common
or virtual facilities for reservations, on or off-site cleaning services,
combined utilities and on-site or virtual management and reception. Any
structure constructed according to the North Carolina Residential code is not
considered a hotel. (This definition shall not preclude the use of trade names
such as “Holiday Inn,” “Travelodge” or similar trade names. The application of
the definition shall apply to the nature of the structure and not its trade
name.) (Adopted by the DCBC on 5-6-02; Amended 11-15-2021)
Large-scale rezoning - A zoning map amendment that proposes to change the
zoning designation of more than 50 properties owned by at least 50 different
property owners.
Legislative decision - The adoption, amendment, or repeal of a regulation under
this chapter. The term also includes the decision to approve, amend, or rescind
a development agreement consistent with the provisions of this chapter or the
Dare County Code of Ordinances, zoning map amendments or rezonings, and zoning
text amendments.
Legislative hearing - A hearing to solicit public comment on a proposed
legislative decision. May also be referred to as a public hearing.
Long-term occupancy - A residential dwelling that is occupied and used for
residency and housekeeping purposes for a period of 31 days or more. (Adopted
10-15-2018)
Micro wireless facility - A small wireless facility that is no larger in
dimension than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width, and 12 inches in height
and that has an exterior antenna, if any no longer than 11 inches.
Mobile food unit - A food establishment or pushcart designed to be readily
moved and vend food. (Adopted 3-19-2018)
Motel - A commercial establishment that contains multiple guest rooms for the
purpose of providing overnight lodging facilities to the general public for
compensation, with or without meals and/or other services, and which has common
or virtual facilities for reservations, on or off-site cleaning services,
combined utilities and on-site or virtual management and reception. Any
structure constructed according to the North Carolina Residential code is not
considered a motel. Motel guest rooms usually have direct access to a parking
area. (This definition shall not preclude the use of trade names such as
“Holiday Inn,” Travelodge” or similartrade names. The application of this
definition shall apply to the nature of the structure and not its trade name.)
(Adopted by the DCBC on 5-6-02; Amended 11-15-2022)
Home occupation - A profession or occupation carried on by a member of a family
or a member of a recognized profession residing on the premises; provided, that
no merchandise or commodity other than that produced on the premises is sold on
the premises; provided, further, that not over twenty-five percent of the total
actual floor area of any structure is used for home occupations or professional
purposes.
Indoor recreation use - Commercial uses, varying in size, providing daily or
regularly scheduled recreation-oriented activities in an indoor setting. Indoor
recreation includes the following uses:
   1.   Amusement center, game arcade, laser tag.
   2.   Billiard and pool halls.
   3.   Bingo operations.
   4.   Bowling alleys or centers.
   5.   Arenas.
   6.   Dance, martial arts, music studio.
   7.   Health, fitness or exercise center.
   8.   Shooting range.
   9.   Sports centers including batting cages.
   10.   Motor tracks.
   11.   Miniature golf course facility.
   12.   Skating rink.
   13.   Movie theater or other indoor theater.
   14.   Indoor swimming pools or aquatic centers.
   15.   Tennis, racquet ball and other racket courts. (Adopted 3-2-2015)
Landscaping Business - A business that provides lawn and yard maintenance
services to off-premise residential and commercial sites. These services shall
include mowing, planting, cutting of trees and shrubs, irrigation system
installation, and site design work. (As adopted by the DCBC on June 3, 2002)
Large bed and breakfast home - A single family dwelling that consists of a
single dwelling unit together with the rental of not more than five guest rooms
on a daily or weekly basis to tourists, vacationers, or transients not to
exceed a stay of 30 consecutive days. Guest rooms in a large bed and breakfast
home shall not be rented on a month-to-month or long-term basis. The provision
of meals, if provided at all, is limited to the breakfast meal and the bed and
breakfast operation is conducted by persons who own and reside in the dwelling
unit with the assistance of not more than the equivalent of one full-time
employee. There shall be no cooking facilities allowed in the individual guest
rooms. (As adopted on October 17, 2005)
Lot - A parcel of land which fronts on and has ingress and egress by means of a
public right-of-way or an approved private street and which is occupied or
intended to be occupied by a building or groups of buildings as provided herein
with the customary accessories and open spaces. The word “lot” includes the
words “plot,” “parcel” or “tract.”
Lot area - The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
Lot, corner - A lot, at least two adjoining sides of which abut for their full
lengths on a street provided that the interior angle at the intersection of two
such sides is less than one hundred thirty-five degrees.
Lot coverage - That portion of the lot area, expressed as a percentage, that is
occupied and obstructed by an improvement or a structure above the ground,
including but not limited to buildings, decks, paved parking areas as defined
in Section
22-56, private sidewalks of impervious surfaces, paved driveways and roadways
as defined in Section
22-56 and any accessory use or structure requiring location on or above the
ground. The following exemptions shall be allowed for residential lot coverage
calculations:
   1.   The “wet” or water area of a swimming pool shall be exempt from the lot
coverage calculations; however, this exemption for the “wet” or water area of
the pool shall not exceed 500 square feet of area. Pool aprons and decking
shall be counted as lot coverage.
   2.   Wooden walkways to ocean or estuarine areas, 6 feet or less in width
shall be exempt from the lot coverage calculations. (Adopted by the DCBC on 4/
7/03)
Lot, depth - The average distance from the street line of the lot to its rear
line, measured in a general direction of the sidelines of the lot.
Lot lines - The line bounding a lot, as follows:
   (a)   Lot line, front - The line separating such a lot from that street
which is designated as the front street on the building permit, certificate of
occupancy or subdivision plat.
   (b)   Lot line, rear - The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the
front lot line, in the case of a pointed or irregular lot, it shall be an
imaginary line parallel to and farthest from the front lot line, not less than
thirty feet long and wholly within the lot.   
   (c)   Lot line, side - Any lot boundary-line not a front line or rear lot
line.
Lot width - The width of a lot at the required building setback line, measured
at right angles to its depth.
Lot of record - A lot, which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office of
the County Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes, and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
Marina - A business established having frontage on navigable waters which as
its principal use provides for hire mooring slips and/or docking facilities for
boats and which may also provide accessory services such as boat and related
sales, boat repairs, indoor and outdoor storage of boats and marine equipment,
setting and mooring, bait and tackle shops, and marine fuel service facilities.
Accessory uses include restaurant and food services, retail shops, offices,
post offices, and laundry facilities. (As adopted on March 5, 2006)
Medical clinic - A building or structure, or portion thereof, where medical
services are provided for outpatients only.
Mobile home (includes double-wide and triple wide homes) - A modular unit built
on a chassis, with body width exceeding eight feet or body length exceeding
thirty-two feet, designed to be used as a dwelling, with or without a permanent
foundation, when connected to the required utilities. A travel trailer is not
to be considered as a mobile home.
Mobile Home Park - See Dare County Mobile Home Park Ordinance for definition.
(9-19-94)
Modular unit - A factory fabricated, transportable building, designed to be
used by itself or to be incorporated with similar units at a building site into
a modular structure. The term is intended to apply to major assemblies and does
not include pre-fabricated panels, trusses, plumbing trees or other pre-
fabricated sub-elements, which are to be incorporated into a structure at the
site.
Non-conforming use - A use of a building or land, which does not conform, to
the regulations of the district in which such building or land is situated but
was lawful before adoption of this chapter.
Oceanfront setback - A line, which is one hundred and fifty feet shoreward from
the mean high water line of the Atlantic Ocean.
Open space - An unoccupied space open to the sky.
Open storage - Unroofed storage area, whether fenced or not.
Outdoor recreation activity - Any activity conducted outdoors for the purpose
of leisure, relaxation and/or personal enjoyment.
Outdoor recreation activity, accessory - Any activity or improvement designed
and used incidental and subordinate to a principal use where access to the
activity or improvement is limited to the exclusive use of the patrons of the
principal use.
Outdoor recreation activity, commercial - Any conduct or any improvement
designed solely for the purpose of facilitating an outdoor recreation activity
where fees are collected in exchange for access to the improvement.
Outdoor recreation use - Commercial uses, varying in size, providing daily or
regularly scheduled recreation-oriented activities. Activities take place
predominantly outdoors or within outdoor structures. Outdoor recreation
includes the following:
   1.   Drive-in theater.
   2.   Extreme sports facility such as paintball, BMX or skateboarding.
   3.   Dog parks.
   4.   Outdoor batting cages, golf driving ranges, amusement parks, go-cart
tracks, miniature golf courses, bumper boats, waterslides and water parks.
   5.   Golf course.
   6.   Outdoor theater, arenas or entertainment facility.
   7.   Riding stables.
   8.   Petting zoos.
   9.   Shooting range.
   10.   Racetracks.
   11.   Aerial adventure centers including climbing walls, zip lines and rope
courses, bungee or trampoline facilities.
   12.   Fishing pier.
   13.   Tennis, racquet ball and other racket courts.
   14.   Swimming pools and aquatic centers. (Adopted 3-2-2015)
Parking space - A vehicular storage space of not less than 10 x 20 feet, plus
the necessary access space. It shall always be located outside any dedicated
right-of-way.
Planned Unit Development - Deleted from the Zoning Ordinance on September 19,
1994.
Planning and development regulation jurisdiction - The unincorporated portions
of Dare County in which Dare County may adopt and apply development
regulations.
Planning Board - Dare County Planning Board.
Portable Storage Container - A portable, weather- resistant, commercially
available for lease or rent receptacle designed and used for the storage or
shipment of residential or commercial personal property. The term shall not
include yard waste containers, or construction debris containers. (Adopted 1-2-
2024)
Portable Storage Unit Service - A commercial service leasing, providing,
maintaining, constructing, assembling, delivering, retrieving, and storing or
leasing space to store portable storage containers. (Adopted 1-2-2024)
Pre-existing towers and antennas - Any tower or antenna for which a permit was
issued prior to June 21, 1999 of these regulations.
Principal business use - The business activity which comprises the primary or
majority of the commercial activity that occurs on a site as permitted by Dare
County. (Adopted 8-20-2012)
Principal dwelling unit - The primary dwelling unit located on a lot or parcel
providing independent living facilities for one or more persons including
permanent provisions for sleeping, living, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
(Adopted 10-15-2018)
Public building - A building that is designed for use by a government-
affiliated, non-profit organization for community and public sector services
and activities. This shall include such buildings as federally-owned buildings,
state-owned buildings, volunteer rescue buildings, community centers,
libraries, recreation centers, and civic centers. Buildings or facilities owned
or leased by the County of Dare shall be considered as county-owned or leased
facilities and permitted as detailed in each zoning district. (As adopted 5-
16-11)
Quasi-judicial decision - A decision involving gathering facts regarding a
specific application of a development regulation that requires discretion when
applying the standards of the regulation. Quasi-judicial decisions include, but
are not limited to, decisions involving variances, special use permits, and
appeals of administrative determinations.
Resident business - A profession or occupation carried on by a member of a
family or a member of a recognized profession residing on the premises;
provided that merchandise produced on or off the premises may be sold on the
premises and up to 1,000 square feet or 40% of the total floor area of the
home, whichever is lesser, may be used for the purpose of conducting business.
Residential Child Care Center - A child care arrangement located in a residence
in which the provider may care for 6 or more pre-school aged children not to a
exceed a maximum of 12 pre-school aged children or a maximum of 15 school-aged
children.
Restaurant - Any place or premises where food and beverages are prepared and
served to patrons for on-premises consumption. Seating may be located indoors
or outdoors. Delivery service and take-out service may also be offered in
addition to the on-premises consumption. This term shall not include drive-in
restaurant or food stand as defined elsewhere in this appendix. (Adopted 4-15-
2013)
Retail Garden Business - A business that provides plants, shrubs, trees, mulch,
yard ornaments and other landscaping materials for retail purchase by the
general public. (As adopted by the DCBC on 6/3/03)
Sand dune - A rounded hill or ridge of loose, gritty grains of disintegrated
rock heaped up by the wind. A sand dune may or may not be covered by vegetation
or trees.
Seafood market - A facility where fish and other seafood that has been
processed and/or cooked is offered for sale. (As adopted on March 5, 2006)
Search ring - The area within which a wireless support facility or wireless
facility must be located in order to meet service objectives of the wireless
service provider using the wireless facility or wireless support structure.
Short-term vacation occupancy - A residential dwelling that is used and/or
advertised through online media or any other means of advertising for occupancy
for a period of 30 days or less. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
Site plan - A scaled drawing and supporting text showing the relationship
between lot lines and the existing or proposed uses, buildings, or structures
on the lot. The site plan may include site-specific details such as building
areas, building height and floor area, setbacks from lot lines and street
rights-of-way, intensities, densities, utility lines and locations, parking,
access points, roads, and stormwater control facilities that are depicted to
show compliance with all legally required development regulations that are
applicable to the project and the site plan review. A site plan approval based
solely upon application of objective standards is an administrative decision
and a site plan approval based in whole or in part upon the application of
standards involving judgment and discretion is a quasi-judicial decision. A
site plan may also be approved as part of a conditional zoning decision.
Site-specific vesting plan - A plan used for the establishment of a zoning
vested right. For the purposes of this chapter, a special use permit and a
preliminary subdivision plat are determined to constitute site-specific vesting
plans.
Skirting area - That area beneath a mobile home from the underside of the floor
area to the ground.
Sleeping room - A room designated as sleeping or bedroom on the plans and
permit application.
Small wireless facility - A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications:
   1.   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six cubic
feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements, the
antenna and all of its exposed elements, if enclosed, could fit within an
enclosure of no more than 6 cubic feet.
   2.   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility has a
cumulative volume of no more than 28 cubic feet. For purposes of this
subsection, the following types of ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services, or other support structures.
Special use permit - A permit issued to authorize development or land uses in a
particular zoning district upon presentation of competent, material, and
substantial evidence establishing compliance with one or more general standards
requiring that judgment and discretion be exercised as well as compliance with
specific standards. The term includes permits previously referred to as
conditional use permits or special exceptions.
Street -   (a)   Any permanently dedicated public right-of-way which has been
accepted for maintenance by the state department of transportation; or   
      (b)   Any other open area providing the principal means of access for
vehicles or pedestrians from a public right-of-way to a building or use of land
and which:
         (1)   Is at least thirty (30) feet in width; and
         (2)   Has been approved by the County Commissioners as a street to
satisfy the requirements of this chapter; and
         (3)   Is covenanted by its owner to remain open and unobstructed
throughout the life of any building or use which depends thereon to satisfy any
requirement of this chapter.
Structure - Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having location on the ground.
Substantially commenced (also substantial commencement of work) - A level of
work on a project that includes the installation of on-site infrastructure
improvements such as stormwater management improvements, parking lot grading,
shaping and paving (if applicable), installation of wastewater improvements,
and construction of building improvements to the level of a foundation or
piling inspection has occurred and been approved by the Dare County Building
Inspector. Substantially commenced does not include the issuance of state and/
or federal permits for erosion and sedimentation control, stormwater
management, CAMA permits, or U.S. Army Corp of Engineers permits.
Substantial modification - The mounting of a proposed wireless facility on a
wireless support structure that substantially changes the physical dimensions
of the support structure. A mounting is considered to be a substantial
modification if it meets any one or more of the following criteria:
   1.   Increasing the existing vertical height of the structure by the greater
of (a) more than 10% or (b) the height of one additional antenna array with
separation from the nearest existing antenna not to exceed 25 feet.
   2.   Except where necessary to shelter the antenna from inclement weather or
to connect the antenna to the tower via cable, adding an appurtenance to the
body of a wireless support structure that protrudes horizontally from the edge
of the wireless support structure the greater of (a) more than 20 feet or (b)
more than the width of the wireless support structure at the level of the
appurtenance.
   3.   Increasing the square footage of the existing equipment component by
more than 2,500 square feet.
Sweepstakes - Any game, advertising scheme or plan, or other promotion, which,
with or without payment of any consideration, a person may enter to win or
become eligible to receive any prize, the determination of which is based upon
chance. (Adopted 8-20-2012)
Tattoo studio - Any establishment or business engaged in the service or
practice of dyeing, staining or producing scars in, on or under the living
human skin.
(As adopted on 1-16-2009; Amended 5-16-2015)
Tourist home - A residential dwelling unit that offers guest rooms for rent on
a daily or weekly basis to tourists, vacationers, or transients not to exceed a
stay of 30 consecutive days. The maximum number of guest rooms offered for rent
shall not exceed 10 rooms. Meals may be provided in a central kitchen or dining
facility and there shall be no cooking facilities allowed in the individual
guest rooms. A tourist home may or may not be owner occupied. (As adopted on
March 5, 2006)
Tower, guy - A tower design that features supporting cables and wires anchored
to the ground surrounding the tower. (Adopted 6-21-1999)
Tower, lattice - Three- or four-legged steel structures typically supporting
multiple communications users and services.
Tower, monopole - Single-pole design, with a larger base that narrows in
height.
Townhouse - A single-family dwelling on its own individual lot but connected on
two sides, by means of a common wall for at least ten feet of its length, to
two other single-family dwellings or an end dwelling of a row of such
dwellings. No more than six such dwelling units may be attached in a single
group.
Trailer - Any of the following:
   (a)   Travel trailer - A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses. When factory equipped for the roads, it shall have a body width
not exceeding eight feet and a body length not exceeding thirty-two feet.
   (b)   Pickup coach - A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis
for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
   (c)   Motor home - A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
   (d)   Camping trailer - A folding structure of canvas or other material
mounted on wheels and designed for travel, recreation and vacation use.
Trailer park - See Dare County Mobile Home Park Ordinance. (9-19-94)
Use -
   (a)   Any purpose for which a building or other structure or a tract of land
may be designed, arranged, intended, maintained or occupied; or
   (b)   Any activity, occupation, business or operation carried on or intended
to be carried on in a building or other structure or on a tract of land.
Used; occupied - The words “used” or “occupied”, as applied to any land or
building, shall be construed to include the words intended, arranged or
designed to be used or occupied.
Utility pole - A structure that is designed for and used to carry lines,
cables, wires, lighting facilities, or small wireless facilities for telephone,
cable television, electricity, lighting, or wireless services.
Variance - A relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such variance will
not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar
to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a literal
enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue hardship. As
used in this chapter, a variance is authorized only for height, area and size
of structure or size of yards and open spaces. The establishment or expansion
of the use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variance, nor shall a
variance be granted because of the presence of non-conformities in the zoning
district or uses in an adjoining zoning district.
Vehicle storage impoundment facility - A facility whereby vehicles are stored
on a short-term basis as a result of traffic violations or accidents. Short-
term for the purposes of this definition shall mean no longer than 60
consecutive days. (Adopted 1-22-2013)
Vested right - The right to undertake and complete the development and use of
property under the terms and conditions of an approval secured as specified in
Section
22-88 of this chapter, G.S. § 160D-108 or under common law.
Yard - A required open space other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed by
an structure or portion of a structure from thirty inches above the general
ground level of the graded lot upward; provided, that fences, walls, poles,
posts and other customary yard accessories, ornaments and furniture may be
permitted in any yard, subject to height limitations and requirements limiting
obstruction of visibility or any other requirement of this chapter; provided,
further, that accessory buildings may be located in any rear or side yard no
closer than five feet to any property line and subject to other limitations of
this chapter.
   (a)   Yard, front - A yard extending between side lot lines across the front
of a lot adjoining a public street, private street, or accessway. Depth of the
required front yard shall be measured at right angles to a straight line
joining the foremost points of the side lot lines. The foremost point of the
side lot line, in the case of rounded property corners at street intersections,
shall be assumed to be the point at which the side and front lot lines would
have met without such rounding. Front and rear yard lines shall be essentially
parallel.
   (b)   Yard, rear - A yard extending across the rear of the lot between side
lot lines. Depth of a required rear yard shall be measured in such a manner
that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by district
regulations, with its inner edge parallel with the rear lot line.
   (c)   Yard, side - A yard extending from the rear line of the required front
yard to the rear yard. Width of a required side yard shall be measured in such
a manner that the yard established is a strip of the minimum width required by
district regulations, with its inner edge parallel with the side lot line.
Water tower - A water storage tank, a standpipe, or an elevated tank situated
on a support structure originally constructed for use as a reservoir or
facility to store or deliver water.
Wireless facility - Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including
(a) equipment associated with wireless communications and (b) radio
transceivers, antennas, wires, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup
power supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological
configuration. The term includes small wireless facilities. The term does not
include any of the following:
   1.   The structure or improvements on, under, within, or adjacent to which
the equipment is collocated.
   2.   Wireline backhaul facilities.
   3.   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable that is between wireless structures or
utility poles or that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with a particular antenna.
Wireless infrastructure provider - Any person with a certificate to provide
telecommunications services in North Carolina who builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or wireless support
structures for small wireless facilities but that does not provide wireless
services.
Wireless provider - A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless service
provider.
Wireless services - Any services, using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of wi-fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided to the public using wireless facilities.
Wireless services provider - A person who provides wireless services.
Wireless support provider - A new or existing structure, such as a monopole,
lattice tower, or guyed tower that is designed to support or capable of
supporting wireless facilities. A utility pole is not a wireless support
structure.
Zoning map amendment or rezoning - An amendment to a zoning regulation for the
purpose of changing the zoning district that is applied to a specified property
or properties. The term also includes (a) the initial application of zoning
when land is added to the territorial jurisdiction of a local government that
has previously adopted zoning regulations and (b) the application of an overlay
zoning district or a conditional zoning district.
Zoning text amendment - An amendment to a zoning regulation for the purposes of
changing the zoning district regulations to add a specific use to a specific
zoning district, to add or revise development regulations to include guidelines
in a specific zoning district.
(11-20-75, art. 4, 4.01; 9-7-76, 1.)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
SECTION 22-3 - INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER; CONFLICTING PROVISIONS
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by this chapter
to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other
agreements between parties; provided, that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon the height of
buildings, or requires larger open spaces, than are imposed or required by
other ordinances, rules or regulations, or by easements, covenants or
agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall govern. (11-20-75, art. 15,
15.02)
SECTION 22-4 - TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all lands, structures, and uses
within the zoning areas designated on the official zoning map for the
unincorporated portion of Dare County. All rights, privileges, benefits,
burdens, and obligations created by development approvals issued by Dare County
shall attach to and run with the land. (11-20-75, art. 3, 3.10)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-5 - COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER - USE, OCCUPANCY AND CONSTRUCTION
REQUIREMENTS
No building, structure or land shall be used or occupied, and no structure
thereof shall be constructed, except in conformity with all of the regulations
specified in this chapter for the district in which it is located. (11-20-75,
art. 3, 3.02)
SECTION 22-6 - SAME - HEIGHT, BULK, DENSITY, LOT COVERAGE, YARD AND OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENTS
No building or other structure shall be erected or altered:
   (a)   To exceed the height or bulk;   
   (b)   To accommodate or house a greater number of families;
   (c)   To occupy a greater percentage of lot area; or
   (d)   To have a narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces than required in this chapter, or in any other manner
contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (11-20-75, art. 2, 3.03)
SECTION 22-7 - COMBINATION OF REQUIRED SPACES
No part of a yard or other open space, or off-street parking or loading space,
required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying
with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space, or off-
street parking or loading space similarly required for any other building. (11-
20-75, art. 3, 3.04)
SECTION 22-8 - REDUCTION OF YARDS OR LOTS BELOW MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS   
No yard or lot existing on November 20, 1975 shall be reduced in dimension or
area below the minimum requirements set forth in this chapter. Yards or lots
created after November 20, 1975 shall meet at least the minimum requirements
established by the chapter. (11-20-75, art. 3. 3.05)
SECTION 22-9 - ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING PER LOT
Only one principal building and its customary accessory building may be erected
on any lot, except as authorized in this chapter for Group Developments under
Section
22-31 and as authorized as exemptions from the Dare County Mobile Home Park
Ordinance. (11-20-75, art. 3, 3.07) (Amended 9-19-94)
SECTION 22-10 - LOT ACCESS REQUIREMENTS
No structure requiring a building permit shall be erected on any lot which:
   (a)   Does not abut either a public right-of-way or a private street or
easement at least twenty feet in width, which has been approved in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, and recorded by the Register of Deeds of
the County;
   (b)   Does not have a cart road, lane or other access to a public street or
highway, which access is described in an instrument recorded in the office of
the County Register of Deeds prior to adoption of this section or described and
sworn to or affirmed by affidavits presented to the Zoning Administrator
setting forth the fact that the same existed prior to adoption of this section.
(11-20-75, art. 3, 3.08; 7-7-76, 1) (Amended 3- 15-10)
Editor’s note—This section as originally worded was adopted as part of the
Zoning Ordinance of November 20, 1975, from which the remainder of this chapter
is derived. At the time of original adoption, it consisted only of the
requirements now included as subsection (a). Subsection (b) was added by an
ordinance Adopted September 7, 1976.
SECTION 22-11 - VISION CLEARANCE AT INTERSECTIONS
On a corner lot which abuts a state maintained right-of-way or private right-
of-way in any district, no planting, structure, fence, wall or other
obstruction to vision more than three feet in height shall be placed or
maintained within the triangular area formed by the intersecting street right-
of-way lines and a straight line connecting points on such street lines, each
of which is twenty-five feet distance from the point of intersection. On all
rights-of-way proper setback for vision clearance shall be determined by the
Zoning Administrator, but in no case shall the requirement exceed that above.
(11-20-75, art. 3, 3.09)
ARTICLE II. DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION 22-12 - ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; OFFICIAL ZONING MAP
For the purposes of this chapter, zoning district boundaries adopted by Dare
County shall be drawn on a map or maps that are the official zoning maps for
unincorporated Dare County. The official zoning maps for each zoning area shall
be identified by the signature of the Chairman of the Dare County Board of
Commissioners and attested by the County Clerk and shall bear the following
certificate together with the date of adoption or amendment:
"This is the certify that this is the official zoning map as referenced in the
Dare County Zoning Ordinance as adopted or amended by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners."
If changes are made in district boundaries or other matters portrayed on the
official zoning map, such changes shall be promptly entered on the official
zoning map after the amendment has been approved by the Board of Commissioners.
Zoning maps shall be maintained for public inspection in the Office of the Dare
County Planning Director. The zoning maps may be maintained in a paper format
and/or a digital format and may be amended or updated following the procedures
set forth in the chapter for legislative decisions on zoning map amendments.
The establishment of overlay districts used in conjunction with or supplemental
to any zoning district map shall also be maintained in the same manner. Copies
of the zoning district boundary map may be reproduced by any method of
reproduction that gives legible and permanent copies and, when certified by the
Clerk for Dare County in accordance with G.S. 160A-79 or 153A-50, shall be
admissible into evidence and shall have the same force and effect as would the
original map.
For state law as to authority of the County to establish zoning districts and
regulate and restrict construction, uses of land or buildings, etc., therein,
see G.S. 160D.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-13 - INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the zoning
districts as shown on the official zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   (a)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys, shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
   (b)   Boundaries indicated, as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (c)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following such city limits.
   (d)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (e)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shoreline; boundaries
indicated, as approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers,
canals, lakes or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   (f)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in sub-sections (a) to (e) of this section shall be so construed.
Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
   (g)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by sub-sections (a) to (f) of this section, the Board of Adjustment
shall interpret the district boundaries.
   (h)   Deleted from the Ordinance on 9-14-94.
SECTION 22-14 - CLASSIFICATION OF ADDED TERRITORY
All territory not included under the provisions of this Chapter but added to
the zoned area after November 20, 1975, shall be considered to be in the same
classification as contiguous property until otherwise classified. (11-20-75,
art. 3, 3.06)
SECTION 22-15 - SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS GENERALLY
The schedule of regulations set out in this Article limiting the use of
buildings and land and the bulk and arrangement of buildings within the various
districts established by this Chapter is hereby adopted for the County. These
district regulations may be amended as provided in Division 2 of Article IX of
this chapter. (11-20-75, art. 7)
SECTION 22-16 - N–H (NATURAL HISTORIC DISTRICT)
   The following regulations shall apply to the N–H (Natural Historic
District):
   (a)   Intent. The Natural Historic District is established to provide for
the protection and enhancement of those areas within the county, which are
significant as places of natural beauty or are areas with local or national
historical significance. It is the intent of this chapter to encourage
reasonable public and private uses and development in these areas, consistent
with the maintenance of these areas as valuable resources for the cultural and
economic welfare of the citizens of the county.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (3)   Museums.
      (4)   Wildlife refuges, game preserves, botanical gardens and natural
preservation areas.
      (5)   Historic sites.
      (6)   State and national parks.
      (7)   County Owned or leased facilities.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Theaters.
      (2)   Outdoor recreation areas, including parks, picnic areas, nature
trails, bicycle paths, bridle paths, riding stables, marinas and playgrounds,
and boat ramps and customary concessions connected therewith.
      (3)   Tourist information centers.
      (4)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (5)   Signs. For each permitted use in the natural historic district, one
square foot of sign may be allowed for each lineal foot of frontage on a public
right-of-way, not to exceed a total of two hundred square feet.
         Such signs must comply with the provisions of
Chapter 158 of the Code of Ordinances and such other requirements as may be
imposed by the County Commissioners to preserve the character of this district.
      (6)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11)
      (7)   Child-care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church. (Adopted 11-5-90)
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Single-family residences shall comply with the dimensional
requirements of the R-1 low-density residential district as established in
section
22-21.
      (2)   All other uses shall comply with the following dimensional
requirements:
         a.   Minimum lot size: 2 acres.
         b.   Minimum lot width: 100 feet.
         c.   Minimum front yard: 50 feet.
         d.   Minimum side yard: 15 feet.
         e.   Minimum rear yard: 15 feet.
         f.   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 20%.
         g.   Height limitations: 35 feet. (11-20-75, art. 7, 7.01)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2023)
SECTION 22-16.1 - C-PR (CONSERVATION-PUBLIC RECREATION DISTRICT) (Adopted 12-5-
94)
   The following regulations shall apply to the C-PR (Conservation Public
Recreation District):
   (a)   Intent. The C-PR district is established to provide restricted usage
of property located in areas conducive to and appropriate for destination style
camping facilities, recreational opportunities and low-density residential
development.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family buildings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools and
tennis courts.
      (3)   County owned and leased facilities.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district, and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Campgrounds - (also subject to the Dare County Travel Trailer Park
Ordinance).   
      (2)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (3)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concession
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least ten feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (6)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11).   
      (7)   Small child care homes, large child care homes, and small child
care centers as defined in section
22-2, only as an accessory use of an existing or proposed church. (Adopted on
11-5-90)
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Lots served by a private well and on-site septic tank/drain field
system: 20,000 square feet of area.
         b.   Lots served by central water supply and an on-site septic tank/
drain-field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
         c.   Lots served by a central water supply and a central wastewater
disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 10 feet side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
   (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
(11-20-75, art. 7, 7.06)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-16.2 - BUXTON NATURAL HISTORIC DISTRICT (BNH) (Adopted 6-4-2012)
   (a)   Scope and intent. The BNH district is established as an area to
recognize and preserve the family housing complex which predated the adoption
of the Natural Historic District in 1975 as consistent with the intent of the
Natural Historic District to protect and enhance areas with local or national
historical significance, but to otherwise follow the regulations of the Natural
Historic District.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools and
tennis courts.
      (4)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (5)   Museums.
      (6)   Wildlife refuges, game preserves, botanical gardens and natural
preservation areas.
      (7)   Historic sites.
      (8)   State and natural parks.
      (9)   County owned or leased facilities.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Theaters.
      (2)   Outdoor recreation areas, including parks, picnic areas, nature
trails, bicycle paths, bridle paths, riding stables, marinas and playgrounds,
and boat ramps and customary concessions corrected therewith.
      (3)   Tourist information centers.
      (4)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (5)   Signs. For each permitted use in the BNH district one square foot
of sign may be allowed for each lineal foot of frontage on a public right-of-
way, not to exceed a total of two hundred square feet.
      (6)   Family housing complex provided that such complex existed on July
16, 2007.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings.
         a.   Minimum lot size:
            Single-family lots served by private wells on an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area.
         b.   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback
line.
         c.   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
         d.   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
         e.   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
         f.   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
         g.   Height limitations: 35 feet.
         h.   No building or other facility, such as playgrounds, tennis
courts, swimming pools, parking areas, incinerators, trash collection areas,
etc., shall be located nearer than 50 feet to boundaries of RS-1 districts. The
width of a road and its right-of-way along such boundary may be included as
part of all of the 50-foot separation zone.
      (2)   Dimensional requirements. Family housing complex.
         a.   Generally. Family housing complex, consisting of two or more
buildings devoted to a common or similar use and constructed on a single lot,
are permitted in the BNH district; provided, that a mandatory pre-application
conference is held between the planning board and the applicant prior to filing
the required application for review and approval of the complex by the board of
commissioners. Such review and approval shall be required for all family
housing complexes. Adequate scaled site plans shall be submitted to allow for
review of the size and location of all buildings, structures, streets, drives
and parking spaces and their relationship to any open spaces and adjacent
properties. Such family housing complex plans shall also be accompanied by a
computation or schedule, expressed in acres or portions thereof, which
indicates the area and percentage of the site devoted to:
            1.   Gross area.
            2.   Parking area.
            3.   Net area.
            4.   Building area.
            5.   Open space.
         b.   Design Standards - Generally. All family housing complexes shall
comply with the following design standards:
            1.   Street access. Any building established as a part of a family
housing complex which cannot properly be served by emergency or service
vehicles from an existing abutting street, shall be made accessible to such
vehicles by street improvements that are adequate for emergency and other
service vehicles. All street improvements shall consist of a 24 foot-wide paved
improvements located internal to site. All pavement and sub-base materials used
in the construction of the street improvements shall be consistent with NC
Department of Transportation pavement and sub-base material standards.
            2.   The owner/applicant shall submit, as a part of the family
housing site plan, a signed statement of a North Carolina-licensed professional
engineer, stating that the proposed streets as designed will meet all of the
requirements of this section. The owner shall provide for inspections to ensure
that the streets are being constructed in accordance with the approved site
plan by an independent, licensed professional engineer during the construction
process, whose reports are to be submitted to the Planning Board in accordance
with a schedule submitted, and approved as part of the family housing complex.
Once the street improvements are complete, the owner shall submit a certificate
of an independent, licensed professional engineer that the streets have been
constructed in accordance with the approved site plan.
            3.   The ownership of the streets shall be retained by the owner.
The owner must agree to maintain the streets.
            4.   The approved site plan, the uniform covenants and deeds shall
plainly indicate that the streets are private, and their maintenance is the
responsibility of the owner.
            5.   Off-street parking and loading facilities. Off-street parking
and loading facilities established in connection with a family housing complex
shall be of such design, location and arrangement as will not interfere with
the efficient flow of traffic through the area and as will not interfere with
the access of emergency or service vehicles.
            6.   Separation of buildings. All buildings established as a part
of a family housing complex shall be separated by not less than 16 feet.
            7.   Prohibited uses. In no case shall a use be permitted as a part
of a family housing complex that is not residential.
            8.   Setbacks. All buildings established as a part of a family
housing project shall be setback not less than 8 feet from any property line.
            9.   Location. No dwelling structure established as a part of a
family housing complex shall be situated on a lot so as to face the rear of
another dwelling structure within the complex.
            10.   Lot size. A family housing complex shall be permitted only on
a lot or plot of ground having an area of not less than seven (7) acres,
            11.   Density. Dwelling density shall not exceed 5.5 units per acre
based on the overall acreage of the tract.
            12.   Lot coverage - maximum allowable lot coverage- 33% of the
total lot area.
            13.   Parking - 3 spaces per unit.
            14.   Building height - 38 feet.
            15.   Building permits for a family housing complex shall not be
issued by Dare County until applicable local, state or federal permits
including but not limited to permits for wastewater treatment and storm water
management are secured by the property owner and copies submitted to Dare
County. Building permits may be issued for dwelling units which have obtained
all applicable wastewater treatment permits for their use.
               (a)    Wastewater. Notwithstanding and in addition to any other
state, local or federal requirements for wastewater, each wastewater system
shall be underground disposal only designed to prevent any waste material from
leaving the family housing complex site under conditions that include standing
storm water on site. Any wastewater treatment system serving three or more
units shall be an advanced treatment system.
               (b)    Storm Water. Notwithstanding and in addition to any other
state, local or federal requirements for storm water, the storm water system
shall be designed to store on the family housing complex site the runoff
produced by a 10-year, 24 hour rainfall event Point Precipitation Frequency
(PF) estimates as defined by NOAA Atlas 14, Volume 2, Version 3 or the most
recent version as of June 4, 2012.
               (c)    Transfer of Property. Upon sale or transfer of ownership
of the family housing site or any portion thereof, a $30,000 escrow account to
be held by an escrow agent as determined by Dare County shall be established.
This escrow shall be used for the repair/replacement of any wastewater system
and such amount shall be at all times maintained in escrow. Any interest
accrued shall become a part of the escrow account. No funds shall be dispersed
from the escrow without consent of Dare County upon presentation of repair
estimates from a North Carolina licensed wastewater treatment system operator
or a North Carolina licensed engineer.
            16.    Reconstruction of family housing complex. Any structure
located within a family housing complex that existed on July 16, 2007 may be
reconstructed or replaced if damaged by any means beyond 50% of its value to
the extent that it existed on July 16, 2007 but may not be reconstructed or
replaced to a greater footprint than what existed previously.
      (3)   Dimensional requirements for all other uses:
         a.    Minimum lot size: 2 acres.
         b.   Minimum lot width: 100 feet, measured at the building setback
line.
         c.   Minimum front yard: 50 feet.
         d.   Minimum side yard: 15 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
         e.   Minimum rear yard: 15 feet.
         f.   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 20%.
         g.   Height limitations: 35 feet. (Adopted 6-4-2012)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-16.3 - EAST LAKE NATURAL HISTORIC DISTRICT (ELNH) (Adopted 4-15-
2013)
   (a)   Scope and intent. The East Lake Natural Historic district is
established to provide for the protection and enhancement of those areas within
the County which are significant as places of natural beauty or are areas with
local or national historical significance. It is the intent of this chapter to
encourage reasonable public and private uses and development within these
areas.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools and
tennis courts.
      (3)   Churches and cemeteries. This shall also include other associated
church facilities including recreational structures, childcare facilities, and
overnight lodging.
      (4)   Museums.
      (5)   Wildlife refuges, game preserves, botanical gardens and natural
preservation areas.
      (6)   Historic sites.
      (7)   State and natural parks.
      (8)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (9)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
subject to compliance with all supplementary local, state, and federal permit
approvals and in addition to the following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or may be detached from the principal residence. The size of an
accessory dwelling unit, whether attached or detached from the principal
residence, shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   One additional off- street parking space shall be required.
         d.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not be used as
accessory dwelling units.
         e.   Accessory dwelling units may be used for home occupations as
defined in Sec.
22-2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Theaters.
      (2)   Outdoor recreation areas, including parks, picnic areas, nature
trails, bicycle paths, bridle paths, riding stables, marinas and playgrounds,
and boat ramps and customary concessions corrected therewith.
      (3)   Tourist information centers.
      (4)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (5)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1.
      (6)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Lots subdivided and recorded after (the adopted
date of this district) regardless of method of drinking water supply and
wastewater disposal - 20,000 contiguous square feet of soils not classified as
coastal wetlands.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 5-foot side yard adjacent
to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet from rear property line.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (7)   Height limitations: 45 feet to the highest portion of the roof
measured from the lowest natural ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter of the
exterior walls or outer perimeter of the structure. Chimneys, lightning rods,
weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be
considered the highest portion of the roof.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for all other uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 2 acres.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 50 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 15 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 15 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 20%.
      (7)   Height limitations: 45 feet to the highest portion of the roof
measured from the lowest natural ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter of the
exterior walls or outer perimeter of the structure. Chimneys, lightning rods,
weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be
considered the highest portion of the roof.
   (f)   Non-conformities:
      (1)   Any structure destroyed or deteriorated by natural means, either
partially or in full, may be rebuilt to 100% of its previous extent. This shall
not apply to those nonconforming structures which are voluntarily removed or
demolished by the property owner. State and federal rebuilding regulations may
apply to any rebuilding project.
      (2)   Any structure that is in existence on the (date of adoption) that
is rendered non-conforming with the dimensional setbacks of this zoning
district shall be considered a pre-existing non-conforming structure.
Additions, expansions, or remodeling of a non-conforming structure shall not be
authorized if the proposed addition or expansion will increase the non-
conforming aspect of the structure. However, this provision shall not be
interpreted to preclude the addition, expansion, or remodeling of any non-
conforming structure if such project can be accomplished in manner that does
not increase the non-confirming aspect of the structure.
      (3)   Non-conforming lots of record – The following setbacks and lot
coverage standards shall apply to any lot of record as of April 15, 2013 that
does not meet the dimensional standards of section (d)(1) of the ELR district:
         a.   Lots with 5,000 square feet or less:
            1.   Front yard setback – 15 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback – 5 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 7 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback – 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 60% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 2, 500 square feet.
         b.   Lots with 5,001 square feet to 10,000 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback – 20 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback – 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback – 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 50% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 4,000 square feet.
         c.   Lots with 10,001 square feet to 14,999 square feet.
            1.   Front yard setback – 25 feet.
            2.    Side yard setback – 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback – 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 40% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 4,500 square feet.
         d.   Lots with 15,000 square feet to 19,999 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback – 25 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback – 10 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 15 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback – 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 30% of the lot square footage. (Adopted 4-15-
2013)
(Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2022;
Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2023)
SECTION 22-17 - RS-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the RS-1 single-family residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The RS-1 district is established to provide for the low-
density development of single-family detached dwellings in an environment,
which preserves sand dunes, coastal forests, wetlands, and other unique natural
features of the coastal area. The district is intended to promote stable,
permanent neighborhoods, characterized by low vehicular traffic flows, abundant
open space and low impact of development on the natural environment and
adjacent land uses.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including swimming pools and tennis
courts.
      (3)   County owned or leased facilities.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this chapter and such additional regulations and requirements
as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of
this chapter:
      (1)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least ten feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, tennis courts,
community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto provided there is no commercial activity and no sign other
than a directional sign.
      (4)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted on 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11)
      (5)   Churches and other associated church facilities including
fellowship halls, sanctuaries, parsonages, church schools, parking areas, and
offices. (Adopted on 4-19-99)
      (6)   Bed and Breakfast Homes may be permitted subject to the
requirements of this chapter and provided that the following minimum conditions
are met: (Adopted on 8-2-99)
         a.   No more than three (3) guest rooms shall be available for rental
to guests. Guest rooms shall be constructed as part of the primary residential
structure and not separate or detached from the principal structure. Any other
bedrooms or bedroom equivalents in the structure shall be limited to use by the
owner.
         b.   The bed and breakfast home shall be owner occupied and shall not
employ more than the equivalent of one (1) full-time employee.
         c.   No separate kitchen facilities shall be provided for the guests’
use. Microwaves and refrigerators shall not be located in guest rooms. Food
service at the bed and breakfast home shall be limited to guests and not open
to the public as a restaurant, catering service, or take-out food service.
         d.   The bed and breakfast home shall be located on a lot with its
entire frontage along a State numbered highway. This shall not include roads
included in the State’s secondary maintenance system and designated with a SR
number.
         e.   A bed and breakfast home shall be located on an individual lot or
a subdivision lot with no deed restriction or subdivision covenant that
prohibits commercial activity.
         f.   Parking: 1 space for each guest room available for rental plus
the requirements of Section
22-56 for single-family structures. These spaces should be individually
designated for bed and breakfast guests.
         g.   Signage: One indirectly lighted name-plate or professional sign
not over 1 square foot in area and attached flat against the building shall be
allowed.
         h.   No retail activities other than food and beverage sales
incidental to the operation of the bed and breakfast home shall be allowed on
the premises.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
         b.   Single family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
         c.   Single family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended on 9-19-94)
      (2)    Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet, an additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet. (11-20-75, art. 7, 7.02)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-
2023)
SECTION 22-17.1 - MP-1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT - (AS ADOPTED
BY THE DARE COUNTY BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR THE RESIDENTIAL PORTIONS OF
MARTINS POINT SUBDIVISION ON OCTOBER 16, 2000)
The following regulations shall apply to the MP-1 single-family residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The MP-1 district is established to provide for the low-
density development of single-family detached dwellings in stable, permanent
neighborhoods, characterized by low vehicular traffic flows and low impact of
development on the natural environment.
   (b)   Permitted Uses. The following uses, and no other uses, shall be
permitted by right:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Customary accessory uses, including swimming pools, tennis courts,
private piers and docks, and garages.
      (3)   County owned or leased facilities.
   (c)   Special Uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this chapter and such additional regulations and requirements
as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of
this chapter:
      (1)   Public and/or private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least 10 feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (2)   Home occupations as defined in Section
22-2.
      (3)   Private recreational facilities including boat launching areas,
tennis courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, swimming beaches and
pools, and concessions integral thereto provided there is no commercial
activity and no sign other than a directional sign.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
         b.   Single-family lots served by central water and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
         c.   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 40 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 12.5 feet, for corner lots the side yard setback
shall be 20 feet adjacent to the street.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
uses: 30% as defined in section 22-2.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet as defined in section 22-2.
   (e)   Other requirements.
      (1)   All utility lines of every type, including but not limited to
water, electricity, telephone, septic, and cable, must be underground.
      (2)   Private piers and/or docks only as an accessory to a principal use
building. Piers and docks shall be permitted by all applicable local, state, or
federal agencies having jurisdiction. Only one pier or dock is permitted for
each building site.
         a.   For property located on Jean Guite Creek – No such pier or dock
shall extend into Jean Guite Creek more than 75 feet from an estuarine
bulkhead, mean high waterline or from a line connecting the outermost limits of
the coastal wetlands on either side of a proposed structure, whichever is
nearest the channel.
         b.   For property on Currituck Sound – No such pier or dock shall
extend into Currituck Sound more than 125 feet from an estuarine bulkhead, mean
high waterline or from a line connecting the outermost limits of the coastal
wetlands on either side of a proposed structure, whichever is nearest the
channel.
(Amended to 125 feet on April 17, 2006)
      (3)   No fill material may be placed on a lot in the side setback areas
unless the fill lies under a line with a vertical to horizontal slope of 1 to 3
or less, as measured from the original grade on the side property line and
certified by a NC licensed surveyor or engineer.
      (4)   Undeveloped lots shall not be used for long-term storage or keeping
of trailers, trash, debris, commercial materials or animals.
      (5)   No animals, livestock, poultry or fowl shall be raised, bred, or
kept on any lot, except that dogs, cats or other household pets may be kept,
provided that they are not kept, bred or maintained for any commercial purpose.
(Amendment added on April 17, 2006)
      (6)   Accessory use buildings or structures, including detached garages,
poolhouses, storage sheds, swimming pools, and swimming pool decking and/or all
pool apron areas shall be located on any lot in conformance with the principal
building setbacks established for this district. (Amendment added on April 17,
2006)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-17.2 - MP-C NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (Adopted 11-6-2023)
   The following regulations shall apply to the MP-C neighborhood commercial
district:
   (a)   Intent. The MP-C district is established to provide for the proper
grouping and development of commercial facilities to serve permanent and
seasonal residents.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical and professional.
      (2)   Retail stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Antiques.
         b.   Books.
         c.   Cameras.
         d.   Candy.
         e.   Clothing.
         f.   Craft goods.
         g.   Delicatessens.
         h.   Dry goods.
         i.   Drugs.
         j.   Flowers.
         k.   Food stores.
         l.   Gifts.
         m.   Hardware.
         n.   Health and Beauty Aids.
         o.   Hobby goods.
         p.   Household appliances.
         q.   Jewelry.
         r.   Leather goods.
         s.   Magazines.
         t.   Medical Supplies.
         u.   Music and musical instruments.
         v.   Office supplies.
         w.   Sporting goods.
         x.   Tobacco.
         y.   Toys.
         z.   Video Rentals.
         aa.   Wines.
      (3)   Service establishments, including such uses as:
         a.   Banks.
         b.   Barbershops and beauty shops.
         c.   Business service—copying, photocopying and computer services.
         d.   Churches.
         e.   Dry cleaning and laundry pickup stations.
         f.   Funeral homes.
         g.   Indoor motion picture theaters.
         h.   Pharmacy without a drive-through facility.
         i.   Radio and television broadcasting studios (excluding transmitter
sites).
         j.   Shoe Repair.
      (4)   Limited residential, where up to 40% of the floor area of an
approved commercial building may be devoted to residential use in conjunction
with a commercial use allowed as a permitted or special use in the MP-
C district.
      (5)   Detached single-family dwellings and accessory buildings, according
to the density and dimensional requirements of the MP-1 residential district.
      (6)   Two-family (duplexes) dwellings, multifamily dwellings and
accessory buildings, according to the density and dimensional requirements of
the RS-8 Multi-Family Residential District.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Event facilities - meaning an establishment, structure or property
designed, maintained, advertised or actually used for the primary purpose of
hosting pre-planned events, including, but not limited to, private parties,
community meetings, weddings, rehearsal dinners, corporate meetings, retreats,
sporting events, cultural events, musical events, celebrations, or similar
events that are planned in advance of their occurrence.
         a.   Customer parking requirements for event facilities shall be one
space for each 150 square feet of floor area;
         b.   A septic permit must be obtained from the county health
department to accommodate the maximum number of attendees permitted.
         c.   Food preparation shall meet all local and state requirements.
         d.   All events in which alcohol is to be served shall not be held
until an approved state ABC permit has been issued.
         e.   All events shall be in compliance with all Dare County
requirements, including the County noise ordinance.
      (9)   Produce stands. The retail sale of fruits, vegetables, plants, and
other agricultural and horticultural products subject to the following
requirements:
         a.   All stands shall meet the yard requirements for the MP-
C district;
         b.   No sales shall be conducted between 8:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
         c.   No additional lighting shall be allowed;
         d.   All stands shall comply with all applicable Dare County Health
Department requirements and N.C. Department of Agriculture requirements;
         e.   Only one stand per lot shall be allowed;
         f.   When located on a lot with 50 or more existing parking spaces, no
additional parking spaces will be required. When located on a lot with fewer
than 50 existing parking spaces, a minimum of three off-street parking spaces
shall be provided. When located on a vacant lot, parking spaces shall be
provided on an adjacent lot with existing parking spaces that is under same
ownership;
         g.   One freestanding sign not exceeding 32 square feet in area or six
feet in height shall be allowed;
         h.   If applicable, a building and/or electrical permit shall be
obtained;
         i.   The display, storage and/or sale area shall not impede vehicular
or pedestrian traffic and parking;
         j.   On-site garbage or trash receptacles must be provided and
properly maintained at all times.
   (c)   Special Uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Commercial child care centers as defined in Section
22-2, subject to other requirements of this chapter and provided the following
conditions are met:
         a.   The facility shall adhere to the minimum requirements of and be
licensed by the State Department of Human Resources.
         b.   Pickup and drop-off areas shall be provided separate from the
drive aisle. The pickup and drop-off areas shall be designed so that no child
is required to cross the parking lot or any other traffic areas.
         c.   The operation of the facility shall not block traffic on the
State Access Road or create other traffic issues.
         d.   Required parking requirements – 1 space for every 3 children plus
1 space for every employee. For facilities that were licensed at any time prior
to November 6, 2023, the required parking requirements shall be 1 space for
each classroom plus 1 space for each administrative office.
      (2)   Garden center/nursery, provided:
         a.   A ten-foot high solid fence must surround all storage areas for
business vehicles, equipment and bulk storage.
         b.   All principal and accessory structures must conform to the
building code (e.g., greenhouses) with no agricultural exceptions.
         c.   Outdoor plant displays (retail/nursery areas) access walks shall
comply with site accessibility requirements of the building code (e.g.,
wheelchairs and motorized carts).
         d.   Required parking spaces and drive aisles shall be asphalt or
concrete. Business vehicle and equipment parking and drive area shall be gravel
or other dust free surface. Customer parking requirements for outdoor retail
display areas shall be one space for every 500 square feet of retail space.
      (3)   Group developments according to the provisions of Section
22-31.
      (4)   Restaurants without drive-thru facility.
      (5)   Veterinary clinic, provided that all boarding runs and kennels are
in an enclosed, heated and air conditioned building.
      (6)   Wireless telecommunications sites in compliance with Section
22.29.2.
      (7)   Wind generation facility in compliance with the requirements of
Section 22.29.3.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the Dare County Health Department, to provide adequate
siting for structures, and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space
for vehicles as required by Article VII of this chapter. In addition, a Visual
Buffer shall be established and maintained along the rear of any property
adjacent a residential zone for any business established after November 6,
2023. The required buffer shall consist of a wooden or vinyl fence (6 to 8 feet
in height) or a vegetative buffer at least 6 feet in height. In some instances,
existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening, with approval
of the Dare County Planning Department. The Buffer Requirements shall not apply
to lots 8, 9 & 10 on the subdivision plat for the Martin’s Point Commercial
Lots, which is recorded in Plat Cabinet B, Slides 74 & 75, Dare County Register
of Deeds.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5 foot-yard side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   No structures are permitted within the 50 foot wide buffer zone
that is shown on the subdivision plat for the Martin’s Point Commercial Lots,
which is recorded in Plat Cabinet B, Slides 74 & 75, Dare County Register of
Deeds.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures shall be 60 percent for commercial and mixed use.
      (7)   Height Limitation: 35 feet.
      (8)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to November 6, 2023, such structure or group
development may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status
prior to damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by
the Dare County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 11-6-2023)
SECTION 22-18 - RS-6 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the RS-6 multi-family residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The RS-6 district is established as an area in which the
principal use of the land is for single-family and low-density multi-family
residential purposes not to exceed six dwelling units per acre. (Amended 10-15-
2018)
   (b)   Permitted Uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (4)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools and
tennis courts.
      (5)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Fire stations, schools, and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least ten feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (6)   Planned unit developments, (this section was deleted by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners on 9-19-94).
      (7)   Family child care homes as defined in section 22-2 and subject to
the occupancy verification provisions of section 22-29.1, 4. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (8)   Child care facilities, which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, school, other public building. (Adopted on 11-5-90)
      (9)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (10)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by private wells and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended on 9-19-94)
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
         c.   Multi-family dwellings: Must be served by an approved public or
community sewage disposal system: Six (6) dwelling units per acre. (Amended 10-
15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.      
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (8)   No building or other facility, such as playgrounds, tennis courts,
swimming pools, parking areas, incinerators, trash collection areas, etc.,
shall be located nearer than 50 feet to boundaries of RS-1 districts. The width
of a road and its right-of-way along such boundary may be included as part or
all of the 50-foot separation zone. (11-20-75, art. 7, 1.03)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-19 - RS-8 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the RS-8 multi-family residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The RS-8 district is established as an area in which the
principal use of the land is for single family and low density multi-family
residential purposes, not to exceed eight dwelling units per acre. (Amended 10-
15-2018)
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (4)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools and
tennis courts.
      (5)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a direction sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least 10 feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (6)   Planning Unit development. (This entire section was by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners on 9-19-94.)
      (7)   Family child-care homes as defined in section 22-2 and subject to
the occupancy verification provisions of section 22-29.1, 4. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (8)   Residential child care center as defined in section 22-2 and
subject to occupancy verification provisions of section 22-29.1, 4. (Adopted
11-5-90)
      (9)   Child care facilities, which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, school, other public building. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (10)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (11)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by private wells and an on-site septic
tank\drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by central water supply and a central
waste- water disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended 9-19-94)
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
         c.   Multi-family dwellings: Must be served by an approved public or
community sewage disposal system. Eight (8) dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet; measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum read yard: 20 feet.   
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (8)   No building or other facility, such as playgrounds, tennis courts,
swimming pools, parking areas, incinerators, trash collection areas, etc.,
shall be located nearer than 50 feet to boundaries of RS-1 districts. The width
of a road and its right-of-way along such boundary may be included as part of
or all the 50 foot separation zone. (11-20-75, art. 7, 7.04)
   e.   Non-conforming multi-family structures. If any non-conforming multi-
family structure constructed before 2003 when the RS-8 dwelling density was
decreased to six units per acre is destroyed or damaged more than 50% of its
market value, the structure may be reconstructed to its former dwelling density
at the time of its original construction but no greater. (Adopted 5-21-2018)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-20 - RS-10 MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the RS-10 multi-family residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The RS-10 district is established as an area in which the
principal use of the land is for high density residential purposes, not to
exceed ten dwelling units per acre. The district also provides for the
development of less intensive residential uses, as well as for compatible
supporting uses.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (4)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools and
tennis courts.
      (5)   County owned or leased facilities.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least 10 feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (6)   Planned unit developments. (This entire section was by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners on 9-19-94).
      (7)   Small child care homes as defined in section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (8)   Large child care homes as defined in section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (9)   Small child care centers as defined in section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (10)   Small child care homes, large child care homes, small child care
centers and medium child care centers as defined in section
22-2, only as an accessory use of an existing or proposed church, school, other
public building, or planned unit development. (Adopted 11-5-90)
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and on-site septic/
tank drainfield system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drainfield system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by central water supply and central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended on 09-19-94)
         b.   Duplex: 25,000 square feet; except, that if served by an approved
public or community sewage disposal system, lot size may be reduced to 12,500
square feet.
         c.   Multi-family dwellings: Must be served by an approved public or
community sewage disposal system. 7,500 square feet for first dwelling unit;
4,000 square feet for each additional dwelling unit.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (8)   No building or other facility, such as playgrounds, tennis courts,
swimming pools, parking areas, incinerators, trash collection areas, etc.,
shall be located nearer than 50 feet to boundaries of RS-1 districts. The width
of a road and its right-of-way along such boundary may be included as part or
all of the 50- foot separation zone. (11-20-75, art. 7.05)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-21 - R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   The following regulations shall apply to the R-1 low-density residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The R-1 district is intended to encourage the development of
permanent low-density residential neighborhoods. These districts are located
primarily in areas susceptible to environmental damage from more intensive uses
of the land.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools and
tennis courts.
      (3)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (4)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Sec.
22-58.6 of this code.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted, subject to the
requirements of this district, and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article X of this chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least ten feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (6)   Family child care homes as defined in
Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted on 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11)
      (7)   Small child care homes, large child care homes, and small child
care centers as defined in Section
22-2, only as an accessory use of an existing or proposed church. (Adopted on
11-5-90)
      (8)   University campuses.
         a.   University campuses may include educational buildings, service
facilities, student housing, research facilities and other uses normally
associated with college campuses.
         b.   The minimum lot size shall be no less than 30 acres.
         c.   There will be no commercial uses on the campus. (Adopted on 2-1-
10)
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended 9-19-94)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all
accessory structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet. (11-20-75, art. 7, 7.06)
      (8)   Height limitation for R-1 on Hatteras Island:
         (a)   Lots 7,499 square feet or less in area – building height shall
be limited to a total of 35 feet measured as an average of the peak of the
roof.
         (b)   Lots 7,500 square feet to 14, 999 square feet in area – building
height shall be limited to 35 feet to the top plat of the ceiling of the
highest habitable floor for a total building height of 42 feet, measured as an
average of the peak of the roof.
         (c)   Lots 15,000 square feet or greater in area – building height
shall be limited to 35 feet for the highest horizontal structural member of the
highest habitable floor, plus 10 feet for interior walls or a top plat level of
45 feet, plus 7 additional feet for attic space and roof line design, for a
total building height of 52 feet, measured at the peak of the roof. (Adopted on
11-16-92)
      (9)   Height limitations for university campuses:
         (a)   Maximum building height shall be limited to 70 feet.
         (b)   An additional 2 feet of setback per foot of building height over
35 feet shall be established to any property line for structures exceeding 35
feet in height. (Adopted 2-1-10)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 4-20-
2022; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-2023)
SECTION 22-21.1 - R-1A LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the R-1A low-density residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The R-1A district is intended to encourage the development of
permanent low-density residential neighborhoods, which have a strong
relationship to water resource activities, including but not limited to crab
shedding operations. These districts are located primarily in water-oriented
areas susceptible to environmental damage from more intensive uses of the land.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses, and no other uses, shall be
permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Customary accessory uses.
      (3)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (4)   Crab shedding operations in conjunction with a residential use and
a maximum of 25 shedders.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least ten feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (6)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted on 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11)
      (7)   Small child care homes, large child care homes, and small child
care centers as defined in Section
22-2, only as an accessory use of an existing or proposed church. (Adopted on
11-5-90)
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for all uses.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site
septic/drain field system: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soil not classified
as a coastal wetland.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
            Single-family lots served by central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet; measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet. (11-20-75, art. 7, 7.06) (The R-1A
district was adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on June 16, 1997
in conjunction with the Colington zoning map.)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-22 - R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the R-2 medium density residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The R-2 district is intended to encourage the development of
moderate density residential neighborhoods, with a mix of permanent and short-
term seasonal residents, and to serve as a transition zone between the low-
density area and more intensely developed areas. The maximum density for multi-
family structures shall not exceed six dwelling units per acre. (Amended 10-15-
2018)
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplexes, with each unit subject to the dimensional requirements
for single-family dwellings in the district, except for the side yards required
at any common walls.
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools,
and tennis courts.
      (4)   Mobile homes; provided, that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
      (5)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted, subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach club and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (6)   Planned unit developments. (This entire section was by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners on 9-14-94.)
      (7)   Multi-family structures at a density of six (6) dwelling units per
acre. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
      (8)   Public or private parks and playgrounds.
      (9)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2, and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted on 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11)
      (10)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, school, other public building. (Adopted on 11-5-90)
      (11)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (12)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended on 9-19-94)
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20% of lot depth, but such yard need not exceed
twenty feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
   (e)   Non-conforming structures and uses. The provisions of subsection (b)
of Section
22-49 and subsection (f) of Section
22-50 to the contrary notwithstanding, a non-conforming structure or use
existing within this district on November 20, 1975, may be restored to its
original condition if destroyed or damaged by any means for a period of time
not to exceed eight years from such. (11-20-75, art. 7, 7.07, 76-81, 1)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-22.1 - R2-A ALTERNATIVE MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the R2-A alternative medium density
residential district:
   (a)   Intent.   The R2-A district is intended to encourage the development
of moderate density residential neighborhoods, to serve as a transition zone
between the low-density area and more intensely developed areas, and provide a
setting for a limited number of business uses associated with a coastal village
location.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools.
      (4)   Mobile homes; provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building Code for Mobile Homes in a Hurricane State.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
      (5)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted, subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches, cemeteries; a recreation or retreat center to include
overnight accommodations, may be offered as an accessory use to a church
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   It shall be located on the parcel with the principal use church
or on a parcel adjacent to the principal use church. If more than one structure
it shall be reviewed as a group development subject to Section
22-31.
         (b)   If located on an adjacent parcel, the parcel of land shall be
greater than 20,000 square feet.
         (c)   Principal buildings and outdoor recreation areas shall be
setback 25 ft. from existing residential uses.
         (d)   If overnight accommodations are provided they shall not be for
long term occupancy as defined in Section
22-2 and shall be limited to participants of church sponsored events.
         (e)   Buffers shall e provided when abutting an existing residential
use. The location of buffers and the type of buffer (vegetative versus fencing)
shall be established during special use permit review. If fencing is used, such
fencing shall be a minimum of six feet in height.
         (f)   Buildings shall comply with the North Carolina Building Code and
Fire Code for the use and occupancy classifications of the areas constructed.
(Adopted 12-4-2023)
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (6)   Public or private parks and playgrounds.
      (7)   Bed and breakfast homes provided that:
         a.   There are no more than 3 units in a home.
         b.   It is owner occupied.
      (8)   Campgrounds.
      (9)   Fish houses and dockage.
      (10)   Real estate offices.
      (11)   Resident businesses provided that:
         a.   Family member(s) residing on premises plus one other non-resident
employee.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off the premises may be sold at the
business.
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business may
not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home. The business area may be
located within the confines of the home or in an accessory building located on
the same property provided the 40% maximum area is not exceeded.
         d.   One indirectly lighted sign, each side not to exceed four square
feet.
         e.   Parking requirements of Section
22-56 for the proposed use shall be applied.
      (12)   Family child care home as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Amended 5-16-11)
      (13)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, public school, or other public building.
      (14)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (15)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
waste-disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended on 9-19-94)
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
         c.   Resident business: 30,000 square feet of area.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: According to standards of Section
22-27.4 Height Overlay District.
   (e)   Non-conformities:
      (1)   In the event of natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage of an existing use or structure that use or structure may be
repaired or replaced to 100% of its status as of June 17, 1991, but no greater
and only to the extent that it cannot be built in conformity with these
regulations. This provision shall become invalid on June 17, 2021.
      (2)   Any proposed addition or alteration to an existing use or structure
must conform to those guidelines in effect at the time permit application for
such an addition or alteration is made. (Adopted on 6-17-91)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-22.2 - R-2B ALTERNATIVE MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the R-2B alternative medium density
residential district:
   (a)   Intent. The R-2B district is intended to encourage the development of
moderate density residential neighborhoods, to serve as a transition zone
between low-density areas and more intensely developed areas, and provide a
setting for a limited number of business uses associated with a coastal village
location.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses, and no other uses, shall be
permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Customary accessory uses.
      (4)   Mobile homes; provided that:
         (a)   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building Code for mobile homes in a hurricane State.
         (b)   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
      (5)   Minor mobile home parks, according to the standards of the Dare
County Mobile Home Park Ordinance.
      (6)   Crab shedding operations.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Wind turbines for use in conjunction with a residential dwelling to
be located on the same site subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The minimum lot size - 10 acres.
         (b)   The maximum height of the wind turbine including the blades
shall not exceed 50 feet.
         (c)   The wind turbine shall be located a minimum of 50 feet from all
property lines.
         (d)   The wind turbine shall be used to provide electrical power for
one residential dwelling and its associated accessory structures on the site.
(Adopted 10-19-15)
      (9)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided that no open commercial activity and that no sign
other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (6)   Public and private parks and playgrounds.
      (7)   Bed and breakfast homes provided that:
         a.   There are no more than 3 units in a home.
         b.   It is owner occupied.
      (8)   Campgrounds.
      (9)   Fish houses and dockage.
      (10)   Real Estate Offices.
      (11)   Resident business provided that:
         a.   Family member(s) resides on premises plus one other non-resident
employee.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off the premises may be sold at the
business.
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business may
not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home. The business area may be
located within the confines of the home or in an accessory building located on
the same property provided the 40% maximum area is not exceeded.
         d.   One indirectly lighted sign; each side not to exceed four square
feet may be installed.
         e.   Parking requirements Section
22-56 for the proposed use shall be applied.
      (12)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Amended 5-16-11)
      (13)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, public school, or other public building.
      (14)   Major mobile home parks, according to the standards of the Dare
County Mobile Home Park Ordinance.
      (15)   Pet grooming and kennel facilities, a pet crematory may be offered
as associated use provided that:
         a.   The crematory is 200 feet from a residential dwelling;
         b.   The incinerator shall be contained inside a building;
         c.   A licensed/certified crematory operator shall be on staff;
         d.   Cremation services shall be limited to domesticated animals,
livestock shall not be permitted; and
         e.   All applicable local, state and federal laws and rules are in
compliance and that all applicable licenses and permits are obtained and a copy
is provided to the Planning Department.
      (16)   Residential child care centers subject to authorization as Permit
for Special Exception according to Section
22-29.1. (Amended on 4-7-08)
      (17)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (18)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soil not classified
as a coastal wetland.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank\drain field system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
         c.   Resident business: 30,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard setback
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures and uses:
         a.   For all residential uses including home occupations, bed and
breakfast homes, and resident businesses: 30%.
         b.   For all other uses: 50%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
(Adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on June 16, 1997)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 11-7-
2022)
SECTION 22-22.3 - R2-H MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   The following regulations shall apply to the R-2H medium density residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The R2-H district is intended to encourage the development of
moderate density residential neighborhoods, with a mix of permanent and short-
term seasonal residents, and to serve as a transition zone between the low-
density area and more intensely developed areas. The maximum density for multi-
family structures shall not exceed six dwelling units per acre. (density
amendment adopted on June 2, 2003; amended 10-15-2018)
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplexes, with each unit subject to the dimensional requirements
for single-family dwellings in the district, except for the side yards required
at any common walls.
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools.
      (4)   Mobile homes; provided, that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
      (5)    County owned or leased facilities.
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted, subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings
      (3)   Home occupations
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach club and
concessionsintegral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial
activity and that no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (6)   Planned unit developments. (This entire section was by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners on 9-14-94.)
      (7)   Multi-family structures at a density of six (6) dwelling units per
acre. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (8)   Public or private parks and playgrounds
      (9)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted on 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11)
      (10)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, school, other public building. (Adopted on 11-5-90)
      (11)   Sporting clay courses provided the following conditions can be
met:
         a.   The site shall be a minimum of 7 acres in area and have direct
continuous frontage on the Pamlico Sound along 3 sides of the property.
         b.   Hours of operation–9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday - Saturday, 1:
00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m., Sunday.
         c.   The total number of target machines provided at the sporting clay
course shall not exceed 10 machines.
         d.   Shooting participants shall be escorted by a NRA (National Rife
Association) certified attendant. No more than 8 shooters may occupy the
shooting clay course at 1 time.
         e.   Restroom facilities shall be provided on-site for users of the
sporting clay course.
         f.   Notwithstanding the provisions of Chapter 130 of the Dare County
Code, no firearms used at the sporting clay course shall be discharged within
200 yards of any occupied residential structure. Individual shooting machines
at the sporting clay course shall be situated for compliance with this
condition and to avoid shooting in the direction of any occupied residential
structure or into the waters of the Pamlico Sound.
         g.   Sporting clays used at the site shall be biodegradable and all
ammunition shall comply with any federal laws.
         h.   There shall be no firearms sales or the sale of alcoholic
beverages at the sporting clay course.
         i.   Other reasonable conditions that may be applied by the Board of
Commissioners. (Adopted 7-19-10)
      (12)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (13)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drainfield system: 20,000 square feet of area. Single family lots served
by a central water supply and an on-site septic tank/drainfield system: 15,000
square feet of area. Single family lots served by a central water supply and a
central wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended on 9-
19-94)
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20% of lot depth, but such yard need not exceed
twenty feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 45 feet measured from the established ground
elevation to the highest elevation of any feature of the primary structure or
portion of the roof, excluding those architectural features known as cupolas
and observation towers that meet the requirements of Section
22-29 (c) of this ordinance. The height shall be calculated from the
approximate center of the structure. Chimneys, lighting rods, weather vanes,
wind gauges and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be considered the
highest portion of the roof. For purposes of this Section, established ground
elevation is defined as the highest of (1) natural ground elevation before any
land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground elevation created by the
placement of fill on a site on or before June 2, 2003; or (3) the re-grading of
natural topographic conditions in preparation of construction activities.
         a.   Elective elevation option – For those structures that are
constructed with the bottom of the floor joist located above 8 feet NAVD 1988,
one foot of building height may be added for each one foot increment increase
in elevation above 8 feet NAVD 1988. However in no instance shall the overall
building height exceed 52 feet to the highest elevation of any feature of the
structure or portion of the roof. Any improvements located in the increased
elevation area shall be subject to the restrictions of subsection (d) storage
area detailed below.
         b.   Habitable floors – No structure shall feature more than three (3)
habitable floors or three (3) habitable stories measured from the bottom of the
floor joist to the top of the top plate, excluding those architectural features
known as cupolas and observation towers that meet the requirements of Section
22-29 (c) of this ordinance.
         c.   Roof pitch – The pitch of the roof shall be a minimum of 4/12.
         d.   Storage area – For those structures with a storage area enclosure
located below 8 feet NAVD 1988, the size of the enclosure area shall not exceed
25% of the square footage of the structure, or 300 square feet, whichever
measurement is less. For the purposes of calculating the square footage allowed
in the storage area, decks, porches, and other non-heated areas of the
structure shall be included in the footprint square footage area. Storage areas
shall be vented according to the standards of the National Flood Insurance
Program regulations (one square inch of vents for every square foot of floor
space). Elevator equipment may be located in the storage area as permitted by
the National Flood Insurance Program regulations and other applicable state
building codes. The remaining area of the foundation or piling area shall
remain open and unobstructed by walls, enclosures, or other structural
improvements that may serve as obstructions to storm surge tides or flood
waters. Storage area enclosures shall be excluded from the calculation of
subsection (b) habitable floors of this section. (amendments to building height
adopted on July 19, 2004) Oceanfront overlay district -- 52 feet measured from
8 feet NAVD 1988 to the highest elevation of any feature of the structure or
portion of the roof measured from the approximate center of the structure. For
those properties where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD 1988, building
height shall be measured from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed
structural footprint. For the purposes of this section natural grade is defined
as the highest of (1) natural ground elevation before any land disturbing
activities; (2) unnatural ground elevation created by the placement of fill on
a site on or before June 2, 2003; or (3) the re-grading of natural topographic
conditions in preparation of construction activities. Chimneys, lighting rods,
weather vanes, wind gauges and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be
considered the highest portion of the roof. The pitch of the principal roof
shall be no less than 4/12. This height limitation shall apply to residential
structures located within an overlay area established from the National Park
Service oceanfront boundary to a distance of 500 feet landward as depicted on
the Hatteras village zoning map. (July 21, 2003)
   (e)   Non-conforming structures and uses.  The provisions of subsection (b)
of Section
22-49 and subsection (f) of Section
22-50 to the contrary notwithstanding, a non-conforming structure or use
existing within this district on November 20, 1975, may be restored to its
original condition if destroyed or damaged by any means for a period of time
not to exceed eight years from such. (11-20-75, art. 7, 7.07, 76-81, 1)
(adopted by the DCBC on 6-2-03)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-22.4 - R2-AH ALTERNATIVE MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT FOR
HATTERAS VILLAGE
   The following regulations shall apply to the R2-AH alternative medium
density residential district:
   (a)   Intent. The R2-AH district is intended to encourage the development of
moderate density residential neighborhoods, to serve as a transition zone
between the low density area and more intensely developed areas, and provide a
setting for a limited number of business uses associated with a coastal village
location.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplexes, with each unit subject to the dimensional requirements
for single-family dwellings in the district, except for the side yards required
at any common walls.
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming pools.
      (4)   Mobile homes; provided, that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
      (5)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted, subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (2)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (3)   Home occupations.
      (4)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, golf courses, tennis
courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (5)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (6)   Public or private parks and playgrounds.
      (7)   Bed and breakfast homes provided that:         
         a.   There are no more than 3 units in a home.
         b.   It is owner occupied.
      (8)   Campgrounds.
      (9)   Fish houses and dockage.
      (10)   Real estate offices.
      (11)   Resident businesses provided that:
         a.   Family member(s) residing on premises plus one other non-resident
employee.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off the premises may be at the
business.
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business may
not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home. The business area may be
located within the confines of the home or in an accessory building located on
the same property provided the 40% maximum area is not exceeded.
         d.   One indirectly lighted sign, each side not to exceed four square
feet.
         e.   Parking requirements of the proposed use as required in Section
22-56 may be met.
      (12)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Amended 5-16-11)
      (13)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, public school, or other public building.
      (14)   Government owned dormitories.
      (15)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (16)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
waste-disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (amended on 9-19-94)
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
         c.   Resident business: 30,000 square feet of area.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum lot coverage by principal use and all accessory uses: 30%.
      (7)   Building Height - 45 feet measured from the established ground
elevation to the highest elevation of any feature of the primary structure or
portion of the roof, excluding those architectural features known as cupolas
and observation towers that meet the requirements of Section
22-29(c) of this ordinance. The height shall be calculated from the approximate
center of the structure. Chimneys, lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges
and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be considered the highest
portion of the roof. For purposes of this section, established ground elevation
is defined as the highest of (1) natural ground elevation before any land
disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground elevation created by the placement
of fill on a site on or before June 2, 2003; or (3) the re-grading of natural
topographic conditions in preparation of construction activities.
         a.   Elective elevation option - For those structures that are
constructed with the bottom of the floor joist located above 8 feet NAVD 1988,
one foot of building height may be added for each one foot increment increase
in elevation above 8 feet NAVD 1988. However in no instance shall the overall
building height exceed 52 feet to the highest elevation of any feature of the
structure or portion of the roof. Any improvements located in the increased
elevation area shall be subject to the restrictions of subsection (d) storage
area detailed below.
         b.   Habitable floors - No structure shall feature more than three
habitable floors or three habitable stories measured from the bottom of the
floor joist to the top of the top plate, excluding those architectural features
known as cupolas and observation towers that meet the requirements of Section
22-29(c) of this ordinance.
         c.   Roof pitch - The pitch of the roof shall be a minimum of 4/12.
         d.   Storage area - For those structures with a storage area enclosure
may be located below 8 feet NAVD 1988, the size of the enclosure area shall not
exceed 25% of the square footage of the structure, or 300 square feet,
whichever measurement is less. For the purposes of calculating the square
footage allowed in the storage area, decks, porches, and other non-heated areas
of the structure shall be included in the footprint square footage area.
Storage areas shall be vented according to the standards of the National Flood
Insurance program regulations (one square inch of vents for every square foot
of floor space). Elevator equipment may be located in the storage area as
permitted by the National Flood Insurance Program regulations and other
applicable state building codes. The remaining area of the foundation or piling
are shall remain open and unobstructed by walls, enclosures, or other
structural improvements that may serve as obstructions to storm surge tides or
flood waters. Storage area enclosures shall be excluded from the calculation of
subsection (f) habitable floors of this section. (Adopted by the DCBC on July
19, 2004)
   (e)   Non-conformities:
      (1)    In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage of an existing use or structure that use or structure may be
repaired or replaced to 100% of its status as of June 17, 1991, but no greater
and only to the extent that it cannot be built in conformity with these
regulations. This provision shall become invalid on June 17, 2021.
      (2)   Any proposed addition or alteration to an existing use or structure
must conform to those guidelines in effect at the time permit application for
such an addition or alteration is made. (Adopted on 6-17-91)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-22.5 - SP-2 ALTERNATIVE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
   The following regulations shall apply to the SP-2 alternative residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The SP-2 district is intended to encourage the development of
residential neighborhoods and provide a setting for a limited number of
business uses associated with a coastal village location.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses, and no other uses, shall be
permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single family dwellings.
      (2)   Mobile homes located on individual lots.
      (3)   Customary accessory uses in conjunction with residential use
including garages, storage sheds, pools and other accessory uses buildings.
      (4)   Crab shedding operations (maximum of 50 shedders) including crab
pot storage and other crabbing operations.    
      (5)   Churches and cemeteries.
      (6)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Public boat ramps and associated parking areas.
      (9)   Commercial fishing net storage sheds.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Home occupations as defined in Section
22-2.
      (2)   Private subdivision amenity areas, including boat launching areas,
golf courses, tennis courts, community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach
clubs and concessions integral thereto; provided that there is no open
commercial activity and that no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (3)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (4)   Public and private parks and playgrounds.
      (5)   Bed and breakfast homes provided that:
         a.   There are no more than 3 units in a home.
         b.   It is owner occupied.
      (6)   Automobile repair shops with a maximum of 2 service bays and
outdoor storage of vehicles for no more than 4 vehicles.
      (7)   Fish houses and dockage.
      (8)   Professional offices in conjunction with a residential use.
      (9)   Resident businesses provided that:
         a.   Family member(s) resides on premises plus one other nonresident
employee.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off the premises may be sold at the
business.
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business may
not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home. The business area may be
located within the confines of the home or in an accessory building located on
the same property provided the 40% maximum area is not exceeded.
         d.   One indirectly lighted sign, each side not to exceed four square
feet may be installed.
         e.   Parking requirements of Section
22-56 for the proposed us shall be applied..
      (10)   Crabbing shedding operations with more than 50 shedders.
      (11)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Amended 5-16-11)
      (12)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, public school, or other public building.
      (13)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drainfield system: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soil not classified as
a coastal wetland.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drainfield system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
         b.   Resident business: 30,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 5 feet side yard setback
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot. For lots with less than 75
feet of width, the side yard setback shall be 8 feet.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures and uses:
         a.   For all residential uses including home occupations, bed and
breakfast homes, and resident businesses: 30 %.
         b.   For all other uses: 50%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 45 feet. An additional increase, not to exceed 2
feet, of building height may be granted to structures in existence on March 15,
2004 that are elevated to mitigate flood hazards.
   (e)   Non-conformities:
      (1)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage of an existing structure that use or structure may be repaired
or replaced to 100% of its status as of March 15, 2004, but no greater and only
to the extent that it cannot be built in conformity with these regulations.
This provision shall become invalid on March 15, 2054.
      (2)   Any proposed addition or alteration to an existing use or structure
must conform to those guidelines in effect at the time permit application for
such an addition or alteration is made.
   (f)   Standards for Property Severed by a Street.
For those properties that are in single ownership but divided by Bayview Drive,
such properties shall be considered two separate parcels for zoning and
building purposes. Any permitted or special use of the SP-2 district may be
located on either of the two parcels only if the applicable dimensional
standards of the SP-2 district can be met on each of the individual parcels.
Building permits for principal use structures shall not be issued if the
dimensional standards cannot be met on the either parcel independent of the
other parcel. When it has been determined that a principal use cannot be
constructed on any lot in the SP-2 district due to the dimensional standards,
setbacks, or lot coverage limitations, an accessory use or accessory building
may be permitted on such lot provided the accessory use or accessory building
can meet the dimensional standards for accessory uses or accessory buildings.
These standards do not apply to structures existing prior to March 15, 2004 and
are not intended to influence decisions or other federal or state permits such
as CAMA, FEMA or Environmental Health permits.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-23 - R-3 HIGH-DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the R-3 high-density residential
district:
   (a)   Intent. The R-3 district is established as an area in which the
principal use of the land is for single family and high density multi- family
residential purposes, not to exceed ten dwelling units per acre. (Amended 10-
15-2018)
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Multi-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Detached single family dwellings.
      (4)   Customary accessory buildings, including private swimming
pools.       
      (5)   Private piers.
      (6)   Private parks and playgrounds.
      (7)   Mobile homes provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building Code for Mobile Homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
materials and skirting area are complied with; except, that this shall not
apply to mobile homes parks and trailer parks.
      (8)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (9)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   (c)   Special Uses. The following uses are permitted, subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Churches.          
      (2)   Cemeteries.
      (3)   Temporary construction offices.
      (4)   Docks or marinas.
      (5)   Public parks and playgrounds.
      (6)   Golf courses.
      (7)   Greenhouses or plant nurseries.
      (8)   Home occupations.
      (9)   Hospitals, medical clinics and nursing homes.
      (10)   Private clubs or lodges.
      (11)   Public buildings.
      (12)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (13)   Planned unit developments. (This entire section was by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners on 9-19-94.)
      (14)   Mobile home parks according to the Dare County Mobile Home Park
Ordinance.             
      (15)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the occupancy verification provisions of Section
22-29.1, 4. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (16)   Large child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the occupancy verification provisions of Section
22-29.1, 5. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (17)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, school, other public building. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (18)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (19)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site
septic/tank drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
         c.   Multi-family dwellings: Must be served by an approved public or
community sewage disposal system. Ten (10) dwelling units per acre except a
dwelling density bonus of ten (10) additional units per acre may be applied in
a commercial group development existing on October 20, 1992 that is served by
an approved public or community sewage treatment and disposal system. (Amended
10-15-2018; Amended 11-15-2021)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.      
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 8 feet. An additional 8-foot side yard adjacent
to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20% of lot depth, but such yard need not exceed
20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
   (e)   Non-conforming structures and uses. The provisions of subsection (b)
of Section
22-49 and subsection (f) of section 22-50 to the contrary not withstanding, a
non-conforming structure or use existing within this district on November 20,
1975, may be restored to its original condition if destroyed or damaged by any
means for a period of time not to exceed eight years from such date. (11-20-75,
art. 7, 7.08)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 11-15-
2021)
SECTION 22-23.1 - R-4 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the R-4 residential district:
   (a)   Intent. The R-4 residential district is established to provide for
low- density development of single-family detached dwellings in an environment
which preserves sand dunes, coastal forest, wetlands and other unique natural
features of the coastal area. The district is intended to promote stable,
permanent neighborhoods, characterized by low vehicular traffic flows, abundant
open space and low impact of development on the natural environment and
adjacent land uses.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings, not to include mobile homes.
      (2)   Customary accessory buildings, including swimming pools and tennis
courts.
      (3)   County owned or leased facilities.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this chapter and such additional regulations and requirements
as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of
this chapter:
      (1)   Public and private utility facilities (must provide a vegetated
buffer strip at least 10 feet in height where the facility abuts a residential
lot or use).
      (2)   Home occupations.
      (3)   Private clubs, including boat launching areas, tennis courts,
community centers, libraries, picnic areas, beach clubs and concessions
integral thereto; provided, that there is no open commercial activity, and that
no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (4)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11)
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size.
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended on 9-19-
94)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 8 feet. An additional 7-foot side yard adjacent
to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20% of lot depth.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use, all accessory
structures and any surface impervious to water: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
   (e)   Non-conforming structures: If any such non-conforming structure or
non-conforming portion of such structure is destroyed by any means to an extent
of more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of
destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this ordinance. However, any destroyed non-conforming structure
may be rebuilt to its original dimensions if a permit for rebuilding is
obtained within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of destruction.
Thereafter, it shall not be rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations
of the district in which it is located. (Adopted by the Board of Commissioners
on 6-25-85 for Colington Harbour)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-23.2 - MH-A MANNS HARBOR/ MASHOES ZONING DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the MH-A zoning district:
   (a)   Intent. The MH-A district is intended to encourage the development of
moderate density residential neighborhoods, to serve as a transition zone
between low-density areas and more intensely developed areas, and provide a
setting for a limited number of business uses associated with a coastal village
location.
All existing uses are 100% "grandfathered" in perpetuity, as they exist as of
the date the Manns Harbor/Mashoes zoning ordinance is adopted. Any structure
destroyed or deteriorated by natural means, either partially or in full, may be
rebuilt to 100% of its previous extent. This shall not apply to those
nonconforming structures which are voluntarily removed or demolished. State and
federal rebuilding regulations may apply.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses and NO OTHER shall be permitted by
right:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplexes.
      (3)   Customary accessory uses.
      (4)   Mobile homes; provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building Code for mobile homes in a hurricane state.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
      (5)   Traditional commercial fishing businesses, including crab shedding
operations.
      (6)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (7)   Commercial/light industry, with the following conditions:
         a.   Multiple building projects. Projects with more than one principal
building per lot shall be submitted for site plan review under Section
22-31, "Group Development". Gross building size shall not exceed a maximum area
of 10,000 square feet per individual building, excluding decks, and porches.
(Adopted 6-3-2024)
         b.   Where a commercial/light industry use is adjacent to a
residential use, the commercial/light industry use must provide a visual buffer
along that boundary.
         c.   Light industry is defined as those uses involving assembling,
disassembling, fabricating, finishing, manufacturing, packaging, repair, or
processing activities. Only those light industrial uses not defined as "high-
hazard group H" by the North Carolina State Building Code may be permitted.
         d.   The following commercial/light industry uses are permitted in
District A and shall be of a non-itinerant nature:
            1.   Appliance and furniture storage warehouse. (Adopted 6-3-2024)
            2.   Automobile detailing, auto shops, paint and body shops.
            3.    Agriculture/aquaculture.
            4.   Bake shops (cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods).
            5.   Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
            6.   Bicycle rentals with buffered storage areas.
            7.   Boarding horses, equestrian activities according to state
regulations.
            8.   Boat building shop and related industry.
            9.   Boat launching ramps.
            10.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-
working/furniture making.
            11.   Catering businesses.
            12.    Computer/internet services.
            13.   Concrete finishing business and equipment.
            14.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
            15.   Craft production and retail sales.
            16.   Consulting businesses.
            17.   Electronics.
            18.   Excavating and equipment.
            19.   Facilities owned by the State of North Carolina.
            20.   Garden and vegetable stands.
            21.   General contracting and related services.
            22.   Gunsmith shop and gun sales.
            23.   Heavy equipment shop with storage.
            24.   Historic home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyles.
            25.   House and boat moving businesses.
            26.   Hunting and sporting goods stores.
            27.   Landscape and lawn care businesses.
            28.   Mini-storage facilities including portable storage unit
services. Mini-storage facilities with multiple buildings or with portable
storage unit services shall be submitted for site plan review under Section
22-31 Group Development. (Adopted 1-2-2024)
            29.   Music shops and music lessons.
            30.   Elder in-home care facility (not to exceed 4 non-related
patients).
            31.   Offices (financial, professional, medical and real estate).
            32.   Outboard engine repairs/sales.
            33.   Photography.
            34.   Plant nursery.
            35.   Pottery, clay works, ceramics.
            36.   Pressure washing business.
            37.   Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
            38.   Restaurants – provided alcoholic beverage sales do not exceed
40% of total sales. Restaurants shall not feature a "drive-thru" window
service, whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle. Restaurant
seating capacity shall not exceed 100.
            39.   Seafood sales as per State of North Carolina regulations.
            40.   Sign making shops.
            41.   Small engine repair and sales.
            42.   Tree farms.
            43.   Taxidermist.
            44.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood sales.
            45.   Upholstery shops.
            46.   Welding shops.
      (8)   All church functions and cemeteries; churches are allowed to add
additional structures to their properties.
      (9)   Fire stations, schools and other public buildings.
      (10)   Home occupations.
      (11)   Traditional village businesses including, but not limited to:
         a.   Offices (financial, professional, medical and real estate).
         b.   Retail/wholesale shops:
            1.   Antiques, furniture and home decor.
            2.   Apparel.
            3.   Artist and art supplies.
            4.   Avian breeding, sales and supplies.
            5.   Bait and tackle supplies, fishing rod and lure assembly shops.
            6.   Beehives.
            7.   Books.
            8.   Camera and photo supplies.
            9.   Catering home business, in accordance with Health Code
Standards.
            10.   Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.
            11.   Florist.
            12.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
            13.   Gifts and imports.
            14.   Hobby goods.
            15.   Home schooling.
            16.   Hunting and fishing supplies.
            17.   Jewelry.
            18.   Leather goods.
            19.   Livestock for personal use only.
            20.   Millinery shops.
            21.   Music shops and music lessons.
            22.    Photography equipment sales and service.
            23.   Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
            24.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
            25.   Toys.
            26.   Upholstery.
            27.    Woodcarving.
      (12)   Public parks and playgrounds.
      (13)   Small bed and breakfast homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (14)   Fish houses; dockage, and piers (maximum pier length limited to
100 feet, measured from the shoreline extending to open water).
      (15)   Resident businesses provided that:
         a.   Family member(s) resides on premises;
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off the premises may be sold at the
business;
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business may
not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home. The business may be located
within the confines of the home and/or in an accessory building located on the
same property so long as total structures do not exceed 50% of the lot
coverage;
         d.   Parking requirements – Section
22-56 for the proposed use shall be applied.
      (16)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Amended 5-16-11)
      (17)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, public school, or other public building.
      (18)   Pet grooming; no overnight commercial kennel facilities.
      (19)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
      (20)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Private clubs, golf courses, tennis courts, picnic areas, beach
clubs and concessions integral thereto; provided that no open commercial
activity and that no sign other than a directional sign is allowed.
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities, substations.
      (3)   Boat sales.
      (4)   Boat rentals; not to include personal watercraft and those vessels
propelled by non-conventional inboard/outboard motors (i.e., "airboats").
      (5)   Telecommunication towers only associated with a principal use that
is authorized as either a permitted use or special use in this district and
subject to all standards established in Section
22-29.2.
      (6)   Mobile home parks, according to the standards of the Dare County
Mobile Home Park Ordinance; not to include travel trailer parks.
      (7)   Fishing and hunting camp. A facility that provides organized
fishing and hunting activities for customers for a fee. The facilities may
include overnight guest quarters, clubhouse facilities, a swimming pool,
storage buildings, piers, docks and private boat launching areas.
         a.   Overnight guest quarters shall be individual cabins constructed
of components on permanent foundations consistent with the North Carolina State
Building Code. The total square footage of each cabin shall not exceed 800
square feet of heated space. Cabins may be rented on a daily or weekly basis
not to exceed 30 consecutive days. This 30-day limit shall not be interpreted
to prohibit use of a fishing-hunting camp by community, civic or church groups
for more than 30 consecutive days whereby the group reserves the camp for use
by its membership which may change on a weekly or daily basis. For example, a
youth group from eastern North Carolina reserves use of the camp for the months
of June and July and during these months sub- chapters of the group from
individual counties make use of the camp on a weekly basis. Portable toilets
shall not be used as bathroom facilities.
         b.   Density: 1 cabin per 20,000 square feet of non-wetland area. Any
wetland areas shall not be used in the calculation of density.
         c.   Setbacks: All cabins shall be located on the parcel according to
the minimum setbacks for the MH-A district and shall be located a minimum of 20
feet from another cabin.
         d.   Any lot proposed for use as a fishing-hunting camp shall have
frontage on the Albermarle Sound from Haulover Point to the western terminus of
the William B. Umstead Bridge. This frontage shall be no less than 100 feet in
width.
         e.   Travel trailers, motor homes, pickup coaches, recreational
vehicles, tents or other temporary dwellings shall not be occupied on the camp
property.
         f.   Boating launching facilities and clubhouse facilities shall be
for the use of the guests of the camp. The clubhouse structure shall not be
calculated in the cabin density calculation. No overnight guest quarters shall
be provided in the clubhouse facility.
         g.   Signage for the camp shall be limited to 1 free-standing sign
located at the entrance of the camp and shall not exceed 32 square feet in
size.
         h.   Other reasonable conditions that may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
(Adopted 10-18-10)
      (8)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (9)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (10)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of soil not classified as coastal
wetland.
         b.   Single-family lots served by a county/state operated central
water supply and on-site septic tank/drain field system: the lot size may be
reduced to 15,000 contiguous square feet.
         c.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Maximum gross building size (applicable to all structures except
publicly owned buildings, schools, and those structures directly associated
with a church): 10,000 square feet excluding decks, porches, and similar non-
heated space.
      (3)   Newly platted lots shall comply with the following dimensional
standards:
         a.   Minimum lot width: 75 ft. measured at the building setback line.
         b.   Minimum front yard: 25 ft.
         c.   Minimum side yard: 10 ft. An additional 10 ft. side yard adjacent
to the street is required for corner lots.
         d.   Minimum rear yard: 20 ft. No rear yard setback is required for
waterfront lots.
      (4)   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 30%. Lot coverage of 50% may be
authorized for those sites with an accessory dwelling unit and/or a traditional
village business.
      (5)   Height limitation for commercial/light industry buildings: 40 feet.
All other uses: 35 feet.
(Adopted 5-21-07)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-
2023; Am. Ord. passed 6-3-2024)
SECTION 22-23.3 - MH-B MANNS HARBOR/ MASHOES ZONING DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the MH-B zoning district:
   (a)   Intent. The MH-B district is established as a transitional area to
allow flexibility of services and uses while establishing certain density
limitations, setbacks, parking requirements and other general requirements.
All existing uses are 100% "grandfathered" in perpetuity, as they exist as of
the date the Manns Harbor/Mashoes zoning ordinance is adopted. Any structure
destroyed or deteriorated by natural means, either partially or in full, may be
rebuilt to 100% of its previous extent. This shall not apply to those
nonconforming structures which are voluntarily removed or demolished. State and
federal rebuilding regulations may apply.
   (b)   Permitted uses. In addition to uses permitted/listed in District MH-
A the following uses, and NO OTHER uses, are permitted in the MH-B district,
and shall be of a non-itinerant nature:
      (1)   Appliance store.
      (2)   Auto part store.
      (3)   Auto, boat, and other recreational vehicle sales.
      (4)   Bed and breakfast facilities (owner occupied, no unit
restrictions).
      (5)   Building supplies.
      (6)   Car wash.
      (7)   Convenience stores, including those with fuel service.
      (8)   Dry cleaners.
      (9)   Eco-tour businesses (provided that no mechanically propelled/
motorized vehicles are used).
      (10)   Grocery stores.
      (11)   Hardware store.
      (12)   Hotel/motel complexes.
      (13)   Indoor shooting range.
      (14)   Multi-family structures including apartment complexes condos.
      (15)   Pet store (no outside kennel facilities).
      (16)   Service stations, including full service.
      (17)   Shopping center (shop types should be in compliance with District
A guidelines).
      (18)   Tack and feed store.
      (19)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Multiple building projects. Projects with more than one principal
building per lot shall be submitted for site plan review under Section
22-31, "Group Development" and shall be subject to the dwelling density
limitations of this section. Gross building size shall not exceed a maximum
area of 20,000 square feet per individual building, excluding decks and
porches. This gross building size limitation shall not apply to hotels and/or
motels.
      (2)   Marinas as defined in Section
22-2.
      (3)   Hotels, motels, and similar structures.
      (4)   Workforce housing units - conditional use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (5)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (6)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential development:
      (1)   Single-family structures and duplex structures shall comply with,
the dimensional standards established in the MH-A district; (Amended 10-15-
2018)
      (2)   Multi-family structures:
         a.   Structures on a lot or tract that has no soils classified as
coastal marsh or Section 404 jurisdictional soils: 5 units per acre.
         b.   Structures on a lot or tract that has between .01% and 19.9% of
soils, or Section 404 jurisdictional soils: 4 units per acre.
         c.   Structures on a lot or tract that has 20% or more of its soils
classified as coastal marsh or Section 404 jurisdictional soils: 3 units per
acre.
      (3)   Height limitation. Highest floor level shall be no greater than 35
feet above the lowest ground grade within a 50 foot perimeter of the exterior
walls of the structure. Overall height from ground level to its highest points
shall not exceed 52 feet.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for commercial development:
      (1)   Minimum lot size. Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the Dare County Health Department, to provide adequate
siting for structures and provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for
vehicles. In addition, a visual buffer is required where a commercial use or
zone abuts a residential use or zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard setback: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard is required if commercial
buildings are constructed with a common wall. An additional 5 foot adjacent to
the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 60%.
      (6)   Height limitation: Highest floor level shall be no greater than 35
feet above the lowest ground grade within a 50 foot perimeter of the exterior
walls of the structure. Overall height of a structure from ground level to its
highest point shall not exceed 52 feet.
      (7)   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space.
      (8)   No industrial use shall be permitted which has noxious, harmful or
deleterious effects on other development, with the exception of boat building
industries. (Adopted 5- 21-07)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-
2023)
SECTION 22-23.4 - EAST LAKE RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT (ELR) (Adopted 4-15-
2013)
   (a)   Scope and intent: The intent of the East Lake Residential zoning
district is to provide for single-family residential land use including mobile
homes on individual lots or located in addition to single family residences on
a lot. The East Lake Residential district will promote stable, permanent
residential neighborhoods characterized by a low impact of development and a
limited range of commercial uses.
      This district prohibits excavation land uses that extract ground material
or mine (i.e. soil, sand, or gravel) for use at another location.
      Any structure in existence on April 15, 2013 which is destroyed or
deteriorated by natural means, either partially or in full, may be rebuilt to
100% of its previous extent. This shall not apply to nonconforming structures
which are voluntarily removed or demolished by the property owner. State and
federal rebuilding regulations may apply to any rebuilding project.
      Any use in existence as of April 15, 2013 shall be allowed to continue in
operation without seeking approval from Dare County if that use is listed as a
permitted use or a special use in the East Lake Residential zoning district.
Additions or expansions of uses in existence as of April 15, 2013 shall be
subject to administrative review and approval by the Dare County Planning
Department for compliance with the zoning regulations. However the construction
of additional principal use buildings that constitute a group housing
development shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process except for accessory dwelling units as detailed in (b)(3) below.
   (b)   Permitted uses: The following uses shall be permitted by right and any
use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Detached Single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplex structures.
      (3)   Customary accessory uses in conjunction with a residential use
including garages, storage sheds, pools and other accessory use buildings.
      (4)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
subject to compliance with all supplementary local, state, and federal permit
approvals and in addition to the following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or may be detached from the principal residence. The size of an
accessory dwelling unit, whether attached or detached from the principal
residence, shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.
         e.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not be used as
accessory dwelling units.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units may be used for home occupations as
defined in Section
22-2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (5)   Mobile homes on individual lots provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building Code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting areas are complied with.
      (6)   Mobile Home Exceptions - The placement of not more than two mobile
homes or one mobile home and one single family home on the same lot in single
ownership provided that:
         a.   The area of the lot to be exempted is not less than 40,000 square
feet or 30,000 square feet if a central water supply is available.
         b.   The soils on the lot to be exempted have been evaluated and
determined to be suitable for on-site septic tank system (or systems) of a size
sufficient to dispose of wastewater from both units according to the minimum
specifications.
         c.   All structures are located on the property consistent with the
setback requirements of subsection (d) and are separated by not less than 20
feet from the other mobile home or single family home located on the same site.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Family child care homes and residential child care center as
defined in Section
22-2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (9)   Commercial fishing operations including boat storage, net storage,
crab pot storage and crab shedding operations.
      (10)   Agriculture, farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry, and related
activities for personal use.
   (c)   Special uses: The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Bed and Breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (2)   Home occupations as defined in Section
22-2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)   Resident businesses provided that:
         a.   Family member(s) resides on premises. One additional employee may
be employed at the resident business.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off the premises may be sold at the
business.
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business area
may not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home or an area of the same
size in an accessory building may be dedicated for residential business use
provide such building is located on the same site.
         d.   Parking requirements of Section
22-56 for the proposed use shall be applied or a minimum or two additional
parking spaces in addition to those dedicated to the residential use.
         e.   The following list of uses may be permitted as a resident
business in the ELR district:
            1.   Offices: business, professional, medical and financial
including contractors and subcontractors offices. There shall be no outside
storage of supplies or materials at contractors and subcontractors offices;
such supplies and materials must be stored in an enclosed structure.
            2.    Retail/wholesale - sales of antiques and furniture; apparel,
books, baked goods; bait and tackle; electronics and computers; flowers; ice
cream; coffee products; fruit and vegetable stands; gifts, art supplies and
crafts; hunting, sporting and fishing supplies; jewelry; toys; photography
products.
            3.   Service establishments - beauty salons including nail, tanning
and spa services; barber shops; landscape and lawn care; photographer; caterer;
music lessons; boat repair and engine repair; kayak and non-motorized boat
rentals.
      (4)   Churches, church-related facilities, and cemeteries.
      (5)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, public school, or other public building.
      (6)   Fire stations and other public buildings.
      (7)   Privately-owned fishing ponds and recreational areas.
      (8)   Public and private utility facilities and substations if located on
a site that is a minimum of 300 feet from any lot for residential purposes
(measured from the lot line) or any residential district boundary.
      (9)   Travel trailer parks and campgrounds subject to the provisions of
the Dare County Travel Trailer Park Ordinance. Travel trailers may be left in
the campground according to the specifications of the Dare County Flood
Ordinance and the Dare County Travel Trailer Park Ordinance.
      (10)   Residential group housing developments subject to the following
conditions:
         a.   The site must be a minimum of one acre in size.
         b.   Only those residential uses listed in the ELR district may be
authorized as part of a group housing development.
         c.   Other provisions of Section
22-31 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance that may apply.
      (11)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (12)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      1.   Minimum lot size:
            a.    Single family lots regardless of method of drinking water
supply and wastewater disposal: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soils not
classified as coastal wetlands.
            b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of
wastewater disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
               Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
         2.   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
         3.   Minimum front yard setback: 25 feet from front property line.
         4.   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet from side property line. An
additional 5 feet adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
         5.   Minimum rear yard setback: 20 feet from rear property line.
         6.   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage up to 50% of the lot area may be authorized for those sites
with an accessory dwelling unit, a mobile home exemption, resident business,
church, child care facilities associated with a church, fire station or other
public building.
         7.   Maximum height limitation: 45 feet to the highest portion of the
roof measured from the lowest natural ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter
of the exterior walls or outer perimeter of the structure. Chimneys, lightning
rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall
not be considered the highest portion of the roof.
   (e)   Other standards:
      (1)   Unoccupied structures and their yards in platted subdivisions shall
be maintained by the property owner. This includes securing of the structure
from unimpeded access, i.e., no broken windows or doors; maintaining proper
skirting under mobile homes; and maintaining the site consistent with the
standards of the Dare County Nuisance Ordinance to avoid infestations of
mosquitos, snakes, and other vermin.
      (2)   The Dare County Sign Ordinance shall apply to all zoned areas. No
additional billboards or outdoor advertising shall be erected on privately-
owned property or along the rights-of-way of the existing alignment of Highway
64 or any future expansion of State-maintained highway road improvements/
rights-of-way after the date of adoption of this ordinance.
      (3)   The parking of trucks, including 18-wheeled trucks, shall be
permitted if the trucks are owned, leased, or operated by the person residing
on the property and used for business or work related duties.
   (f)   Non-conformities:
      (1)   Any structure destroyed or deteriorated by natural means, either
partially or in full, may be rebuilt to 100% of its previous extent. This shall
not apply to those nonconforming structures which are voluntarily removed or
demolished by the property owner. State and federal rebuilding regulations may
apply to any rebuilding project.
      (2)   Any structure that is in existence on April 15, 2013 that is
rendered non-conforming with the dimensional setbacks of this zoning district
shall be considered a pre-existing non-conforming structure. Additions,
expansions, or remodeling of a non-conforming structure shall not be authorized
if the proposed addition or expansion will increase the non-conforming aspect
of the structure. However, this provision shall not be interpreted to preclude
the addition, expansion, or remodeling of any non-conforming structure if such
project can be accomplished in manner that does not increase the non-confirming
aspect of the structure.
      (3)   Non-conforming lots of record: The following setbacks and lot
coverage standards shall apply to any lot of record as of April 15, 2013 that
does not meet the dimensional standards of section (d)(1) of the ELR district.
         a.   Lots with 5,000 square feet or less:
            1.   Front yard setback - 15 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback - 5 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 7 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 60% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 2,500 square feet.
         b.   Lots with 5,001 square feet to 10,000 square feet.
            1.   Front yard setback - 20 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback - 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 50% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 4,000 square feet.
         c.   Lots with 10,001 square feet to 14,999 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback - 25 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback - 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 40% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 4,500 square feet.
         d.   Lots with 15,000 square feet to 19,999 square feet.
            1.   Front yard setback - 25 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback - 10 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 15 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 30% of the lot square footage. (Adopted 4-15-
2013)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-
2023)
SECTION 22-23.5 - EAST LAKE VILLAGE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (ELVC) (Adopted 4-15-
2013)
   (a)   Scope and intent: The intent of the East Lake Village Commercial
zoning district is to provide for a mix of residential land uses including
mobile homes. The district also permits a limited range of commercial uses to
serve the residents of the area and seasonal visitors traveling through East
Lake.
      Any structure in existence on April 15, 2013 which is destroyed or
deteriorated by natural means, either partially or in full, may be rebuilt to
100% of its previous extent. This shall not apply to nonconforming structures
which are voluntarily removed or demolished by the property owner. State and
federal rebuilding regulations may apply to any rebuilding project.
      Any use in existence as of April 15, 2013 shall be allowed to continue in
operation without seeking approval from Dare County if that use is listed as a
permitted use or a special use in the East Lake Village Commercial zoning
district. Additions to existing buildings or expansions of uses consistent with
this ELVC district that existed on April 15, 2013 shall be subject to
administrative review and approval by the Dare County Planning Department for
compliance with the zoning regulations. The construction of additional
principal use buildings that constitute a group development shall trigger
review and approval under the special use permit process except for accessory
dwelling units as detailed in (b)(3) below.
   (b)   Permitted uses: The following uses shall be permitted by right and any
use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited:
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (2)   Duplex structures.
      (3)   Customary accessory uses in conjunction with a residential use
including garages, storage sheds, pools, and other accessory use buildings.
      (4)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
subject to compliance with all supplementary local, state, and federal permit
approvals and in addition to the following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or may be detached from the principal residence. The size of an
accessory dwelling unit, whether attached or detached from the principal
residence, shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.
         e.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not be used as
accessory dwelling units.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units may be used for home occupations as
defined Section
22-2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (5)   Mobile homes on individual lots provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building Code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting areas are complied with.
      (6)   Mobile Home Exceptions – The placement of not more than two mobile
homes or one mobile home and one single family home on the same lot in single
ownership provided that:
         a.   The area of the lot to be exempted is not less than 40,000 square
feet or 30,000 square feet if a central water supply is available.
         b.   The soils on the lot to be exempted have been evaluated and
determined to be suitable for on-site septic tank system (or systems) of a size
sufficient to dispose of wastewater from both units according to the minimum
specifications.
         c.   All structures are located on the property consistent with the
setback requirements of subsection (d) and are separated by not less than 20
feet from the other mobile home or single family home located on the same lot.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Fire stations and other public buildings.
      (9)   Churches, church related facilities and cemeteries.
      (10)   Family child care homes and residential child care home as defined
in Section
22-2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (11)   Commercial fishing operations including boat storage, net storage,
crab pot storage and crab shedding operations.
      (12)   Bed and breakfast homes and large bed and breakfast homes as
defined in Section
22-2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (13)   Agriculture, farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry, and related
activities for personal use.
      (14)   Home occupations as defined in Section
22-2.
      (15)   Resident businesses provided that:
         a.   Family member(s) resides on premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off the premises may be sold at the
business.
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business area
may not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home or an area of the same
size in an accessory building may be dedicated for residential business use
provide such building is located on the same site.
         d.   The total square footage designated as the resident business may
not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home or may be located in an
accessory building located on the same property. The total lot coverage shall
not exceed 50% of the lot area.
         e.   Parking requirements of Section
22-56 for the proposed use shall be applied.
         f.   The following list of uses may be permitted as a resident
business in the ELC district:
            1.   Offices: business professional, medical and financial
including contractors and subcontractors offices.
            2.    Retail/wholesale: sales of antiques and furniture; apparel,
books, baked goods; bait and tackle; electronic and computers; flowers; ice
cream; coffee products; fruit and vegetable stands; gifts, art supplies and
crafts; home décor; hunting and fishing supplies; jewelry; toys; photography
products; sporting goods.
            3.   Service establishments: beauty salons including nail care,
tanning and spa services; barber shops; landscape and lawn care; photographer;
caterer; music lessons, boat repair and engine repair; kayak and non-motorized
boat rentals.
      (16)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, public school, or other public building.
      (17)   Offices: business, financial, governmental, professional and
medical including contractor and subcontractor office and associated storage
areas and equipment parking.
      (18)   Retail/wholesale sales of antiques and furniture; apparel and
shoes; baked goods; books and magazines; coffee products; craft and art
supplies; cameras and photography goods; candy; ice cream; pharmacies;
electronics and computers; fruit and vegetables; flowers, plants and other
gardening supplies; gifts; hardware, hunting and fishing supplies; jewelry;
sporting goods; hardware; toys; appliances and home décor.
      (19)   Service establishments: beauty salons including spa, nail and
tanning services; barber shops; shoe repair; landscape and lawn care, sewing
and alterations; catering; florists, and photography services.
      (20)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses: The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter. Any use not listed herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Boat and vehicle repair services including outdoor storage of boats
and vehicles being repaired.
      (2)   Kayaks and non-motorized boat rentals.
      (3)   Restaurants and food stands as defined in Section
22-2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance subject to the following provisions:
         a.   The restaurant or food stand shall not feature a drive-thru
window whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         b.   A minimum of ten parking spaces (10' x 20' each) shall be
provided at all food stands. Such parking shall be of a dust-free service and
each space individual designated.
         c.   Restaurant parking shall be as provided in Section
22-56 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (4)   Public and private utility facilities and substations provided they
are located a minimum of 300 feet from any lot used for residential purposes
(measured from the lot line) or residential district boundary.
      (5)   Telecommunication towers subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (6)   Forestry services including lumber mill facilities.
      (7)   Seafood markets as defined in Section
22-2.
      (8)   Travel trailer parks and campgrounds subject to the provisions of
the Dare County Travel Trailer Park Ordinance. Travel trailers may be left in
the campground according to the specifications of the Dare County Flood
Ordinance and the Dare County Travel Trailer Park Ordinance but cannot serve as
permanent residence.
      (9)   Concrete finishing business with associated truck and equipment
storage. This shall not include concrete production plants or facilities.
      (10)   Group development whereby more than one structure is located on
the same site provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   The site must be a minimum of one acre in size.
         b.   Any use listed as a permitted or conditional use of the district
can be authorized as a group development.
         c.   Lot coverage shall not exceed 30% of the total site area for
residential group developments or 60% for commercial group developments.
         d.   Other provisions of Section
22-31 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (11)   Food stores provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Fuel service may be offered at the site. All fuel pumps,
equipment and canopies shall be located a minimum of twenty-five feet from any
property line.
         b.   Only the area directly below a fuel canopy may be illuminated and
shall have a maximum foot-candle of ten. A lighting plan demonstrating
compliance with this regulation shall be submitted in conjunction with the site
plan.
         c.   Prepared food may be offered for on-premise or off-premise
consumption.
      (12)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (13)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (14)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      1.   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single family lots regardless of method of drinking water supply
and wastewater disposal: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soils not classified
as coastal wetlands.
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      2.   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
      3.   Minimum front yard setback: 25 feet from front property line.
      4.   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet from side property line. An
additional 5 feet adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      5.   Minimum rear yard setback: 20 feet from rear property line.   
      6.   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage up to 50% of the lot area may be authorized for those sites
with an accessory dwelling unit, a mobile home exemption, or resident business.
      7.   Maximum height limitation: 45 feet to the highest portion of the
roof measured from the lowest natural ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter
of the exterior walls or outer perimeter of the structure. Chimneys, lightning
rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall
not be considered the highest portion of the roof.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for all other uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the Dare County Health Department, to provide adequate
siting for structures and to provide parking, loading, and maneuvering space
for vehicles. In addition, a visual buffer of dense vegetation or solid wooden
fencing is required where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or
zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard setback: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 5-foot adjacent to the
street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet from any rear property line.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 60%.
      (6)   Gross floor area limitation: The maximum square footage of any
commercial building shall not exceed a total of 10,000 square feet, both heated
and non-heated area. The gross floor area limitation shall not apply to
churches, fire stations, and other public buildings.
      (7)   Maximum height limitation: 45 feet to the highest portion of the
roof measured from the lowest natural ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter
of the exterior walls or outer perimeter of the structure. Chimneys, lightning
rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall
not be considered the highest portion of the roof.
   (f)   Other standards:
      (1)   Unoccupied structures and their yards in platted subdivisions shall
be maintained by the property owner. This includes securing of the structure
from unimpeded access, i.e., no broken windows or doors; maintaining proper
skirting under mobile homes; and maintaining the site consistent with the
standards of the Dare County Nuisance Ordinance to avoid infestations of
mosquitos, snakes, and other vermin.
      (2)   The Dare County Sign Ordinance shall apply to all zoned areas. No
additional billboards or outdoor advertising shall be erected on privately-
owned property or along the rights-of-way of the existing alignment of Highway
64 or any future expansion of State-maintained highway road improvements/
rights-of-way after the date of adoption of this ordinance.
      (3)   For commercial developments permitted after April 15, 2013, a
vegetated buffer at least six feet in height and a minimum of five feet in
width shall be installed along any property line that abuts a residential use
or residential district. Vegetation shall be of sufficient size to reach a
height of 6 feet within 12 months of installation. Vegetative buffers shall be
maintained to ensure survivability and any dead or damaged vegetation shall be
replaced to ensure the buffer remains intact. Existing vegetation shall be used
whenever possible for buffering purposes if the existing vegetation is of
sufficient height and width to effectively buffer the abutting residential use
or residential district.
         Commercial uses in existence on April 15, 2013 shall not be required
to install a vegetative buffer along any rear or side property line that abuts
a residential use or residential district. However, any improvement to a
commercial use that increases the footprint of any building by 25% or more or
adds another residential or commercial principal use structure to the site
shall require the installation of a vegetative buffer as detailed above.
      (4)   The parking of trucks, including 18-wheeled trucks, shall be
permitted if the trucks are owned, leased, or operated by the person residing
on the property and used for business or work related activity.
   (g)   Non-conformities:
      (1)   All existing structures are 100% “grandfathered” in perpetuity, as
they exist on the date the East Lake Village Commercial zoning ordinance is
adopted. Any structure destroyed or deteriorated by natural means, either
partially or in full, may be rebuilt to 100% of its previous extent. This shall
not apply to those nonconforming structures which are voluntarily removed or
demolished by the property owner. State and federal rebuilding regulations may
apply to any rebuilding project.
      (2)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for ten consecutive months, except
when government action impedes access to the premises, the structure, or
structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with this district.
      (3)   Any structure that is in existence on April 15, 2013 that is
rendered non-conforming with the dimensional setbacks of this zoning district
shall be considered a pre-existing non-conforming structure. Additions,
expansions, or remodeling of a non-conforming structure shall not be authorized
if the proposed addition or expansion will increase the non-conforming aspect
of the structure. However, this provision shall not be interpreted to preclude
the addition, expansion, or remodeling of any non-conforming structure if such
project can be accomplished in manner that does not increase the non-conforming
aspect of the structure.
      (4)   Non-conforming lots of record: The following setbacks and lot
coverage standards shall apply to any lot of record of as April 15, 2013 that
does not meet the dimensional standards of section (d)(1) of the ELVC district:
         a.   Lots with 5,000 square feet or less:
            1.   Front yard setback – 15 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback – 5 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 7 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback – 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 60% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 2, 500 square feet.
         b.   Lots with 5,001 square feet to 10,000 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback – 20 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback – 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback – 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 50% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 4,000 square feet.
         c.   Lots with 10,001 square feet to 14,999 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback – 25 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback – 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback – 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 40% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 4,500 square feet.
         d.   Lots with 15,000 square feet to 19,999 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback – 25 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback – 10 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 15 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback – 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 30% of the lot square footage. (Adopted 4 15-
2013)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-24 - C-1 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the C-1 neighborhood commercial
district:
   (a)   Intent. The C-1 district is established primarily to encourage the
concentration of commercial facilities in clusters and to provide readily
accessible shopping facilities for permanent and seasonal residents. All C-
1 districts shall be at least two acres in area but not larger than four acres.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Food markets.
      (2)   Banking institutions.
      (3)   Drug stores.
      (4)   Post office substations.
      (5)   Restaurants.
      (6)   Barber shops and beauty parlors.
      (7)   Laundry and dry-cleaning pick-up stations.
      (8)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (9)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (10)   Residential child care centers as defined in Section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (11)   Commercial child care centers as defined in Section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (12)   Retail sales. (added 6-21-93)
      (13)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (14)   Mobile homes on individual lots; provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
State Building Code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         (b).   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to the
requirements of this section and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Gas pumps in conjunction with a permitted use under subsection (b)
of this section; provided, that no principal or accessory building shall be
located within fifty feet of a residential use or residential district and that
any such gas pumps shall be set back at least twenty-five feet from any right-
of-way.
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (3)   Seafood markets.
      (4)   Boat launching and rental facilities.
      (5)   Real estate sales and management facilities.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the County Health Department, to provide adequate
siting for structures and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for
vehicles as required by Article VII of this chapter. In addition, a visual
buffer is required where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or
zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 50% .
      (6)   Height limitation: 35 feet. (11-20-95, art. 7, 7.09; 7-6-84, 2.)
      (7)   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space including decks and
porches shall not be used as retail space, for the display of goods, or other
commercial activities. (Adopted by the DCBC on May 6, 2002)
      (8)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to May 6, 2002, such structure or group development
may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status prior to
damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 2-19- 07)
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for detached single-family dwellings and
mobile homes.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
         b.   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
         c.   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and on-site
septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-24.1 - SP-C NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
   (a)   Intent. The SP-C district is established to provide limited commercial
areas to serve existing or developing residential neighborhoods in the county.
The intent of this district is to provide goods and services for permanent
residents and seasonal visitors.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses, and no other uses, shall be
permitted by right:
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical and professional.
      (2)   Primary retail stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Books.   
         b.   Cameras.
         c.   Candy.
         d.   Clothing.
         e.   Craft goods.
         f.   Dry goods.
         g.   Drugs.
         h.   Flowers.
         i.   Gifts.
         j.   Hardware.
         k.   Hobby goods.
         l.   Jewelry.
         m.   Leather goods.
         n.   Magazines.
         o.   Notions.
         p.   Sporting goods.
         q.   Toys.
         r.   Food stores.
         s.   Antique stores.
      (3)   Service establishments including such uses as:
         a.   Barbershops and beauty shops.
         b.   Churches.
         c.   Dry-cleaning and laundry pick-up stations, including laundromats.
         d.   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2.
         e.   Residential child care centers as defined in Section
22-2.
         f.   Commercial child care centers as defined in Section
22-2.
      (4)   Detached single-family dwellings and mobile homes on individual
lots.
      (5)   Public and private schools.
      (6)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (7)   Crabbing shedding operations (maximum of 50 shedders) including
crab pot storage and other crabbing operations.    
      (8)   Seafood sales and markets.
      (9)   Fish houses and dockage.
      (10) Public boat docks and ramps and ferry docks including associated
parking areas.
      (11) Cabinet making facilities.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Gas pumps in conjunction with a permitted uses under subsection (b)
of this section; provided that no principal or accessory building shall be
located within fifty feet of a residential use or residential district and that
any such gas pumps shall be set back at least twenty-five feet from all rights-
of-way.
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (3)   Private boat launching facilities and marinas not to include rental
of boats or other personal watercraft.
      (4)   Restaurants.
      (5)   Crabbing shedding operations with more than 50 shedders.
      (6)   Automobile service and repair stations.
      (7)   Marine and boat repair facilities.
      (8)   Fire stations and other public buildings.
(Adopted 5-16-11)
      (9)   Brewery for the on-site manufacture of malt beverages and beer
subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Brewery shall be located on site with frontage on Highway 264.
The site shall not contain less than 40,000 square feet of area.
         b.   The brewery structure shall not exceed 10,000 square feet of
heated gross floor area.
         c.   No portion of the building or processing area shall be located
closer than 75 feet to a residential use. There shall be no outdoor storage of
raw materials used in the manufacture of malt beverages.
         d.   Minimum parking requirement. On-site parking for delivery trucks
and employees shall be provided at a ratio of one 10 feet by 20 feet parking
space per 1,000 square feet of heated gross floor area or a minimum of ten
spaces whichever is less.
         e.   The brewery shall be connected to the Stumpy Point central
wastewater treatment system and shall be operated in compliance with all
applicable
rules and regulations associated with connection to this system. (Adopted 7-21-
14)
      (10)   Food stands and mobile food units. (Adopted 3-19-2018)
      (11)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for all uses other than detached single-
family dwellings and mobile homes located in the SP-C zone.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the Dare County Health Department and to provide adequate
area for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space. In addition, a
visual buffer of vegetation or fencing is required where a commercial use abuts
a residential use or zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard is required if commercial
building is constructed with a common wall. An additional 5 foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
uses: 60 percent.
      (6)   Height limitation: 45 feet. An additional increase, not to exceed 2
feet, of building height may be granted to structures in existence on March 15,
2004 that are elevated to mitigate flood hazards.
   (e)    Dimensional requirements for detached single-family dwellings and
mobile homes located in the SP-C zone.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.    Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site
septic tank/drainfield system: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
         b.   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank/drainfield system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
         c.   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10 foot side yard setback
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot. For lots with less than 75
feet of width, the side yard setback shall be 8 feet.
      (5) Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures and uses: 30 percent.
      (7)   Height limitation: 45 feet. An additional increase, not to exceed 2
feet, of building height may be granted to structures in existence on March 15,
2004 that are elevated to mitigate flood hazards.
   (f)   Non-conformities:
      (1)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage of an existing structure that use or structure may be repaired
or replaced to 100% of its status as of March 15,2004, but no greater and only
to the extent that it cannot be built in conformity with these regulations.
This provision shall become invalid on March 15, 2054.
      (2)   Any proposed addition or alteration to an existing use or structure
must conform to those guidelines in effect at the time permit application for
such an addition or alteration is made.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-24.2 - SNC SKYCO NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
   (a)   Intent. The SNC District is established to provide proper grouping and
development of small commercial facilities to serve neighborhood residents and
the general public. Several public water supply wells owned by Dare County are
located in the surrounding area as well as large expanses of wetlands. The
commercial land uses permitted in this neighborhood district are less numerous
and include limitations that are not found in other commercial zoning
districts.
   (b)   Permitted uses. Any use in existence on June 18, 2007 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County. Additions
or expansions of uses in existence on June 18, 2007 shall be subject to
administrative review and approval by the Dare County Planning Department for
compliance with the zoning regulations. Construction of additional principal
use structures at existing business sites that would require a special use
permit if not already established prior to June 18, 2007 shall trigger review
and approval under the special use permit process.
The following uses shall be permitted by right and any use not permitted herein
shall be deemed prohibited:
      (1)   Single family dwellings.
      (2)   Customary accessory uses.
      (3)   Duplexes.
      (4)   Greenhouses.
      (5)   Small and large bed and breakfast homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Home occupations as defined in Section
22-2.
      (7)   Neighborhood service facilities, including:
         a.   Automotive repair service center including towing and storage.
Not to include fuel service.
         b.   Subcontractor (HVAC, plumbing, electrical) sales and service.
         c.   Beauty and barber shops.
         d.   Florist.
         e.   Woodworking and carpentry.
         f.   Fitness centers.
         g.   Nursery and garden shops (retail and wholesale).
         h.   Marine and fishing supply.
         i.   Seafood market as defined in Section
22-2.
         j.   Small engine repair.
         k.    Machine shops.
         l.   Small specialty fabrication.
      (8)   Crab shedding operations (maximum 50 shedders) including crab pot
storage and other crabbing operations.
      (9)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (10)   Multifamily dwellings not to exceed 6 dwelling units per acre.
      (11)   Commercial storage yards as defined in Section
22-2 provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Storage areas shall be enclosed with fencing for security
purposes. Such fencing shall be at least 6 feet in height but shall not exceed
10 feet in height. The security fencing shall be maintained as needed by the
property owner.
         b.   A vegetative buffer in addition to the security fencing shall be
installed and perpetually maintained where the storage yard abuts a residential
zone or a residential use to the side or the rear of the site. The vegetative
buffer shall be of a sufficient size and height to effectively buffer the site
from the abutting residential zone or residential use. A plan detailing the
type, size, and species of vegetation proposed for use as a buffer shall be
provided to the Zoning Administrator for review and approval. Existing on-site
vegetation may be used if deemed to be sufficient by the Zoning Administrator.
         c.   There shall be no storage of inoperable or junked vehicles and
equipment; unoccupied mobile (manufactured) homes; unattached flatbed trailers
or container-type trailers designed for connection to tractor-trailer trucks;
or large pieces of equipment used in dredging operations, road construction,
and other industrial uses. Any vehicle or trailer stored on the site shall have
a valid license plate and/or valid owner registration.
         d.   No recreational vehicles, travel trailers, or campers stored on
the site shall be occupied or used for habitation while stored at the site.
         e.   All vehicles and equipment stored on the site shall be locked,
enclosed or otherwisefashioned to such an extend that it is impossible for a
child to obtain access or be entrapped in such vehicle or equipment.
         f.   There shall be no bulk storage of fuel, paint, or other
combustible or hazardous materials at the site. (Adopted 8-15-11)
      (12)   Accessory dwelling unit according to the provisions of Section
22-58.6 of this code. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
      (13)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (14)   Cluster home developments subject to the provisions of Section
22-31.1.
      (15)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (16)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
   (c)   Special uses. Any use in existence on June 18, 2007 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County. Additions
or expansions of uses in existence on June 18, 2007 shall be subject to
administrative review and approval by the Dare County Planning Department for
compliance with the zoning regulations. Construction of additional principal
use structures at existing business sites that would require a special use
permit if not already established prior to June 18, 2007 shall trigger review
and approval under the special use permit process.
The following special uses, and no other special uses may be permitted, subject
to the requirements of this district and additional regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Offices including:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical.
         e.   Professional.
      (2)   Family child care homes and residential child care centers as
defined in Section
22-2.
      (3)   Public and private utilities.
      (4)   Fire stations.
      (5)   Retail sales and food stores (not to include fuel service).
      (6)   Churches (excluding day care).
      (7)   Public and private parks.
      (8)   Outdoor recreation facilities provided the following conditions are
met:
         a.   The site is not located closer than 500 feet to any residential
use or residential zone.
         b.   Paved parking shall be provided at the rate of one parking space
per square feet of principal use ground area plus once for each two employees.
         c.   Holding lanes shall be provided on the site for automobiles
entering and leaving the site to minimize traffic congestion on public roads.
         d.   Lighting shall be arranged and shielded so that light and glare
is directed away from surrounding property.
         e.   Loudspeakers or sound amplification devices which are audible
over 100 feet from the site shall not be permitted.
         f.   The entire site shall be buffered by dense vegetation (planted or
natural) not less than eight feet in height and ten feet in width.
      (9)   Resident businesses provided that:
         a.   Family members resides on premises plus one other non-residential
employee.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off premises may be sold at the
business.
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business may
not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home. The business area may be
located within the confines of the home or in an accessory building located on
the same property provided the 40% maximum area is not exceeded in the
accessory building or in combination of the home and the accessory building.
         d.   One indirectly lighted sign, each side not to exceed four square
feet may be installed on the site.
         e.   Parking requirements of Section
22-56 for the proposed use shall be applied.
      (10)   Storage buildings provided a vegetative buffer not less than 10
feet in height is provided along public rights-of-way and adjacent to any
residential use or zone.
      (11)   Group housing developments consisting of single family homes and
subject to the provisions of Section
22-31.
      (12)   Group housing developments consisting of multifamily structures
subject to the provisions of Section
22-31. Maximum dwelling density shall not exceed 6 dwelling units per acre.
      (13)   Group developments according to the provisions of Section
22-31.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drainfield system: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soil not classified as
a coastal wetland.
         b.   Single family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank drainfield system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
         c.   Single family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
         d.   Resident business: 30,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
         e.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (8)   Maximum gross building size: 10,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space shall not be used as
retail space, for the display of goods, or other commercial activities.
   (e)   Dimensional requirement for commercial uses.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Health Department and to provide
adequate area for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space. In
addition, a visual buffer of vegetation or fencing is required where is
commercial use abuts a residential use or zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 60%.
      (6)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (7)   Maximum gross building size: 10,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space shall not be used as
retail space, for the display of goods, or other commercial activities.
   (f)   Non-conformities.
      (1)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage of an existing structure or use, that use or structure may be
repaired or replaced to 100% of its status as of June 18, 2007 but no greater
and only to the extent that it cannot be built in conformity with these
regulations. This right to repair or replace a non-conforming structure or use
shah apply in perpetuity.
      (2)   Any proposed addition or alteration to an existing use or structure
must conform to those guidelines in effect at the time permit application for
such an addition or alteration is made. (Adopted 6-18-2007; amended 11-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-25 - C-2 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the C-2 general commercial district:
   (a)   Intent. The C-2 district is established to provide for the proper
grouping and development of commercial facilities to serve permanent residents
and the general public.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical and professional.
      (2)    Primary retail stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Books.
         b.   Cameras.
         c.   Candy.
         d.   Clothing.
         e.   Craft goods.
         f.   Dry goods.
         g.   Drugs.
         h.   Flowers.
         i.   Gifts.
         j.   Hardware.
         k.   Hobby goods.
         l.   Jewelry.
         m.   Leather goods.
         n.   Magazines.
         o.   Musical instruments.
         p.   Notions.
         q.   Sporting goods.
         r.   Toys.
         s.   Food stores.
      (3)   Secondary retail stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Antiques.
         b.   Household appliances.
         c.   Boat display and sales.
      (4)   Service establishments, including such uses as:
         a.   Barber and beauty shops.
         b.   Marinas.
         c.   Cafeterias.
         d.   Churches.
         e.   Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up stations, including laundromats.
         f.   Funeral homes.
         g.   Motels and hotels.
         h.   Parking lots.
         i.   Radio and television broadcasting studios.
         j.   Restaurants.
         k.   Shoe repair.
         l.   Theaters.
         m.   Family child-care homes as defined in section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
         n.   Residential child care centers as defined in section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
         o.   Commercial child-care centers as defined in section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
         p.   Food stands and mobile food units. (Adopted 3-19-2018)
      (5)   Single-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings, duplexes, and
mobile homes, according to the dimensional requirements of the R-3 residential
district. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (6)   Public and private schools.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Fire stations and other public buildings.
(Adopted 5-16-11)
      (9)   Indoor recreation uses. (Adopted 12-20-16)
      (10)   Accessory dwelling units. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
      (11)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (12)   Breweries as defined in Section
22-2 provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   No portion of the building or processing area shall be located
closer than 75 feet to an existing residential structure. There shall be no
outdoor storage of raw materials used in the manufacture of malt beverages.
         (b)   Minimum parking requirement. On-site parking for delivery trucks
and employees shall be provided at a ration of one 10 feet by 20 feet parking
space per 1,000 square feet of heated gross floor area dedicated to production
and one 10 feet by 20 feet parking space per 200 square feet of heated gross
floor areas dedicated to retail space. (Adopted 10-2-2023)
   (c)   Special Uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Automobile service stations; provided, that no principal or
accessory building shall be located within fifty feet of a residential use or
district, that there shall be no storage of wrecked or abandoned cars and that
no portion of a service station building, equipment or gas pumps shall be
nearer than twenty-five feet to any right-of-way.
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (3)   Seafood market.
      (4)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (5)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (6)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
      (7)   Storage warehouses.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      1.   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the County Health Department, to provide adequate
siting for structures and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for
vehicles as required by Article VII of this chapter. In addition, a visual
buffer is required where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or
zone.
      2.   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      3.   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5-foot yard adjacent to
the street is required for a corner lot.
      4.   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      5.   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 60%.
      6.   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      7.   No building or other facility, such as parking areas, incinerators,
trash collection areas, etc., shall be located nearer than 50 feet to
boundaries of RS-1 districts. The width of a road and its right-of-way along
such boundary may be included as part of all of the 50 foot separation zone.
(11-20-75) art. 7, 7.10, 2-6-78, 3.)
      8.   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space including decks and
porches shall not be used as retail space, for the display of goods, or other
commercial activities.
         Group developments with a maximum area of 20,000 square feet per
individual building, excluding decks and porches. This gross building size
limitation shall not apply to hotels and/or motels. (Adopted by the DCBC on May
6, 2002)
      9.   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to May 6, 2002, such structure or group development
may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status prior to
damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 2-19-07)
      10.   Commercial group developments constructed prior to October 20, 1992
which are served by a centralized wastewater treatment system that could not be
built under the terms of this chapter by restrictions on lot coverage, height,
yards, location, and off-street parking shall be allowed to continue in
operation and may be redeveloped subject to the following provisions:
         a.   No structure which is part of the commercial group development
shall be enlarged, replaced, or externally altered in a manner that increases
any non-conforming aspect of the structure and/or the overall commercial group
development site. However, any such structure may be externally altered or
replaced if such redevelopment activity results in a decrease of its
nonconforming status. Structures that are replaced and redeveloped may be used
for any permitted or special use authorized in sections
22-23 or 22-25 of this appendix. For the purposes of this section, externally
altered shall not be interpreted to prevent painting of the exterior,
replacement of exterior materials, or other cosmetic changes or maintenance of
the structure or portions thereof. This shall not apply to interior
alterations, remodeling, or other improvements made to internal portions of any
structure located on the commercial group development site.
         b.   A decrease of 7% of the existing lot coverage shall be required
for that portion of the commercial group development site or parcel on which
the structure to be altered or replaced is located. If the commercial group
development is located on more than one parcel, then the lot coverage decrease
shall apply to that parcel only and not the overall group development site.
         c.   The off-street parking requirements of section
22-56 shall only be applied to that portion of the commercial group development
site or parcel where the structure proposed for alternation or replacement is
located. No other changes in the parking ratio for the remaining structures or
portions of the commercial group development shall be required as a part of the
redevelopment activities. Existing parking areas in the commercial group
development may be connected to the parking areas or access easements in the
redeveloped portions of the site.
         d.   Building heights for any redevelopment activities in any existing
commercial group development shall be according to section
22-27.4 Height Overlay district for properties located on Hatteras Island.
         e.   Dwelling densities for multifamily structures located in the
commercial group development shall be twenty (20) units per acre applied to the
overall area of the parcel to be developed.
         f.   A subdivision of the land occupied by the commercial group
development may be authorized by Dare County if such subdivision of land meets
the required minimum lot size in effect at the time of the proposed subdivision
of the commercial group development site. Redevelopment activities on any lot
created by such subdivision of land shall be subject to the provisions of
subsections a. - e. above. (Adopted 1-6-14; Amended 11-15-2021)
(Am. Ord. passed 2-19-2019; Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-
2021; Am. Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
SECTION 22-25.1 - C-2H GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the C-2H general commercial district:
   (a)   Intent. The C-2H district is established to provide for the proper
grouping and development of commercial facilities to serve permanent residents
and the general public.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical and professional.
      (2)   Primary retail stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Books.
         b.   Cameras.
         c.   Candy.
         d.   Clothing.
         e.   Craft goods.
         f.   Dry goods.
         g.   Drugs.
         h.   Flowers.
         i.   Gifts.
         j.   Hardware.
         k.   Hobby goods.
         l.   Jewelry.
         m.   Leather goods.
         n.   Magazines.
         o.   Musical instruments.
         p.   Notions.
         q.   Sporting goods.
         r.   Toys.
         s.   Food stores.
      (3)   Secondary retail stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Antiques.
         b.   Household appliances.
         c.   Boat display and sales.
      (4)   Service establishments, including such uses as:
         a.   Barber and beauty shops.
         b.   Marinas.
         c.   Cafeterias.
         d.   Churches.
         e.   Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up stations, including laundromats.
         f.   Funeral homes.
         g.   Motels and hotels.
         h.   Parking lots.
         i.   Radio and television broadcasting studios.
         j.   Restaurants.
         k.   Shoe repair.
         l.   Theaters.
         m.   Family child care homes as defined in section 22-2. (Adopted 11-
5-90)
         n.   Residential child care centers as defined in section 22-2.
(Adopted 11-5-90)
         o.   Commercial child care centers as defined in section 22-2.
(Adopted 11-5-90)
         p.   Food stands and mobile food units. (Adopted 3-19-2018)
      (5)   Single-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings and duplexes,
according to the dimensional requirements to the R-2H residential district.
(Amended 10-15-2018)
      (6)   Public and private schools.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Fire stations and other public buildings.
(Adopted 5-16-11)
      (9)   Accessory dwelling units. (Adopted 10-15-018)
      (10)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Automobile service stations; provided, that no principal or
accessory building shall be located within fifty feet of a residential use or
district, that there shall be no storage of wrecked or abandoned cars and that
no portion of a service station building, equipment or gas pumps shall be
nearer than twenty-five feet to any right-of-way.
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (3)   Seafood market.
      (4)   Boat building and boat repair facilities. Boat building and boat
repair facilities may be permitted subject to other requirements of this
chapter and provided that all of the following conditions are met:
         a.   Any proposed boat building and repair facility shall be located
within a 200 feet radius of an existing full-service commercial marina. Private
boat ramps or boat launching facilities associated with private subdivisions
and housing developments shall not be considered as marinas for the purpose of
this condition.
         b.   Any proposed boat building and repair facility shall be located
on a lot with its entire frontage along a state numbered highway. This shall
not include roads in the secondary road maintenance system and designated with
a SR number.
         c.   A boat building and repair facility shall be located on an
individual lot or a subdivision lot with no deed restrictions or covenants that
prohibits commercial activity.
         d.   Any proposed boat building and repair facility shall be located
on a site no less than 20,000 square feet in area and no greater than 40,000
square feet in area.
         e.   Any proposed boat building and repair facility shall not exceed a
gross floor area of 2,500 square feet.
         f.   Any proposed structure constructed for boat building activities
shall not be located within a 200 feet radius of any residential structure in
existence at the time application for such boat building facility is submitted
for review by the Planning Board.
      (5)   Fishing piers provided that the pier and the pier house structures
conform to the definitions and requirements of the NC Division of Coastal
Management and subject to the following standards:
         a.   The fishing pier shall be open to the general public.
         b.   In order to access the ocean, the fishing pier shall be exempt
from the rear yard setback requirements of this district. The fishing pier,
however, shall maintain a 100-foot minimum side yard setback within the
property and at the point where it crosses the rear property line.
         c.   A pier house is defined as a structure attached to a fishing pier
which shall provide complimentary commercial retail and restaurant uses.
         d.   For a pier house, ocean setback requirements of the NC Division
of Coastal Management shall govern the rear yard (ocean side) requirements. The
rear yard requirements shall of this district shall not apply.
         e.   A pier house footprint shall not exceed 5,000 square feet.
         f.   There shall be no residential use of a fishing pier or the pier
house.
         g.   Parking may be provided off-site as long as no required parking
is located no more than 600 feet from the main entrance of the pier house.
         h.   Parking lot lighting shall be comprised of cut-off fixtures such
that no direct light is focused towards the ocean. (Adopted on 6-18-2012)
(This section was added to the C-2H district by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners on November 15, 2004.)
      (6)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (7)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (8)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the County Health Department, to provide adequate siting
for structures and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for
vehicles as required by Article VII of this chapter. In addition, a visual
buffer is required where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or
zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5-foot yard adjacent to
the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 60%.
      (6)   Building height: 45 feet measured from the established ground
elevation to the highest elevation of any feature of the primary structure or
portion of the roof, excluding those architectural features known as cupolas
and observation towers that meet the requirements of Section
22-29 (c) of this ordinance. The height shall be calculated from the
approximate center of the structure. Chimneys, lighting rods, weather vanes,
wind gauges and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be considered the
highest portion of the roof. For purposes of this Section, established ground
elevation is defined as the highest of (1) natural ground elevation before any
land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground elevation created by the
placement of fill on a site on or before June 2, 2003; or (3) the re-grading of
natural topographic conditions in preparation of construction activities.
         a.   Elective elevation option – For those structures that are
constructed with the bottom of the floor joist located above 8 feet NAVD 1988,
one foot of building height may be added for each one foot increment increase
in elevation above 8 feet NAVD 1988. However in no instance shall the overall
building height exceed 52 feet to the highest elevation of any feature of the
structure or portion of the roof. Any improvements located in the increased
elevation area shall be subject to the restrictions of subsection (d) storage
area detailed below.
         b.   Habitable floors – No structure shall feature more than three (3)
habitable floors or three (3) habitable stories measured from the bottom of the
floor joist to the top of the top plate, excluding those architectural features
known as cupolas and observation towers that meet the requirements of Section
22-29 (c) of this ordinance.
         c.   Roof pitch – The pitch of the roof shall be a minimum of 4/12.
         d.   Storage area – For those structures with a storage area enclosure
may be located below 8 feet NAVD, the size of the enclosure area shall not
exceed 25% of the square footage of the structure, or 300 square feet,
whichever measurement is less. For the purposes of calculating the square
footage allowed in the storage area, decks, porches, and other non-heated areas
of the structure shall be included in the footprint square footage area.
Storage areas shall be vented according to the standards of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations (one square inch of vents for every square foot
of floor space). Elevator equipment may be located in the storage area as
permitted by the National Flood Insurance Program regulations and other
applicable state building codes. The remaining area of the foundation or piling
area shall remain open and unobstructed by walls, enclosures, or other
structural improvements that may serve as obstructions to storm surge tides or
flood waters. Storage area enclosures shall be excluded from the calculation of
subsection (b) habitable floors of this section. (Adopted by the Dare County
Board of Commissioners on July 19, 2004.)
      (7)   No building or other facility, such as parking areas, incinerators,
trash collection areas, etc., shall be located nearer than 50 feet to
boundaries of RS-1 districts. The width of a road and its right-of-way along
such boundary may be included as part or all of the 50-foot separation zone.
(11-20-75) art. 7, 7.10, 2-6-78, 3.)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-26 - C-3 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
   The following regulations shall apply to the C-3 commercial district:
   (a)   Intent. The C-3 district is established to provide for the development
of commercial facilities to furnish a broad range of services and commodities
to serve the entire community.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   All permitted uses allowed within the C-2 general commercial
district. Single- family dwellings, multi-family dwellings and duplexes
according to the dimensional requirements of the R-3 residential district. The
maximum dwelling density for multi-family structures shall not exceed ten units
per acre. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Automobile sales and service.
      (3)   Indoor recreation activities.
      (4)   Building supply and equipment sales.
      (5)   Plumbing supply and equipment sales.
      (6)   Cabinet and woodworking shops.
      (7)   Bus terminals.
      (8)   Building contractors offices and storage areas.
      (9)   Farm machinery supplies, sales and repairs.
      (10) Mobile home or recreational vehicle display and sales.
      (11) Boat display and sales.
      (12) County owned or leased facilities.
      (13)   Boat engine repair and boat maintenance. (Adopted 5-2-2011)
      (14)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (15)   Commercial storage yards as defined in Section
22-2 provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Storage areas shall be enclosed with fencing for security
purposes. Such fencing shall be at least 6 feet in height but shall not exceed
10 feet in height. The security fencing shall be maintained as needed by the
property owner.
         b.   A vegetative buffer in addition to the security fencing shall be
installed and perpetually maintained where the storage yard abuts a residential
zone or a residential use to the side or the rear of the site. The vegetative
buffer shall be of a sufficient size and height to effectively buffer the site
from the abutting residential zone or residential use. A plan detailing the
type, size, and species of vegetation proposed for use as a buffer shall be
provided to the Zoning Administrator for review and approval. Existing on-site
vegetation may be used if deemed to be sufficient by the Zoning Administrator.
         c.   There shall be no storage of inoperable or junked vehicles and
equipment; unoccupied mobile (manufactured) homes; unattached flatbed trailers
or container-type trailers designed for connection to tractor-trailer trucks;
or large pieces of equipment used in dredging operations, road construction,
and other industrial uses. Any vehicle or trailer stored on the site shall have
a valid license plate and/or valid owner registration.
         d.   No recreational vehicles, travel trailers, or campers stored on
the site shall be occupied or used for habitation while stored at the site.
         e.   All vehicles and equipment stored on the site shall be locked,
enclosed or otherwise fashioned to such an extent that it is impossible for a
child to obtain access or be entrapped in such vehicle or equipment.
         f.   There shall be no bulk storage of fuel, paint, or other
combustible or hazardous materials at the site. (Adopted 10-21- 2019)
      (16)   Travel trailer parks and campgrounds. (Adopted 10-19-2020)
      (17)   Package distribution and delivery services. (Adopted 9-20-2021)
   (c)   Special Uses. The following special uses shall be permitted, subject
to the requirements of this district and additional regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of
this chapter or Chapter 152 of this code:
      (1)   Automobile service stations; provided that no principal or
accessory building shall be located within fifty feet of a residential use or
district, that there shall be not storage of wrecked or abandoned cars and that
no portion of a service station building, equipment or gas pumps shall be
nearer than twenty-five feet to any right-of-way.
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (3)   Seafood market.
      (4)   Outdoor recreation activities. Outdoor recreation activities,
including amusement parks, rides and other similar activities, may be permitted
subject to other requirements of this chapter and provided the following
conditions are met:
         a.   The site shall not be located closer than 500 feet to any land
suitable for development and zoned residential.
         b.   Paved parking shall be provided at the rate of one parking space
per 200 square feet of principal use ground area plus one for each two
employees.
         c.   Holding lanes shall be provided on the site for automobiles
entering and leaving the site to minimize traffic congestion on public roads.
         d.   Lighting shall be arranged and shielded so that light and glare
is directed away from surrounding property.
         e.   Loudspeakers or sound amplification devices which are audible
over 100 hundred feet from the site shall not be permitted.
            The entire site shall be buffered by dense vegetative planting or
natural vegetation not less than eight feet in height and ten feet in width.
Suitable plant types for a site not containing natural vegetation shall be
those recommended for the coastal area by the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
such as Japanese Pine, Bayberry, Wax Myrtle or other types, which will reach a
matured growth of eight to ten feet within three years.
      (5)   Biodiesel fuel production, subject to the following conditions and
additional regulations and requirements imposed by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this chapter or Chapter 152 of this
code:
         a.   A structure, of suitable size to house all production equipment
shall be approved by the Dare County Health Department, Building Inspector and
Fire Marshal;
         b.   All production facilities including structures, storage tanks,
equipment and other appurtenances shall conform with setbacks established for
primary use structures;
         c.   Verification from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and
all other applicable agencies, shall be submitted to indicate that all
environmental requirements have been met;
         d.   The facility shall be registered with the North Carolina
Department of Revenue;
         e.   The developer shall verify that production waste will be disposed
of with a suitable disposal service or facility;
         f.   Reactor size shall not exceed a 700 gallon capacity. Assurance of
reactor size shall be provided by the manufacturer and/or registered engineer;
         g.   Fuel production shall not exceed 500 gallons per week;
         h.   A 5 foot wide vegetative buffer is required along those property
boundaries adjacent to a residential use or district; and
         i.   A 15 foot wide, improved access shall be provided to the site.
(Adopted 12-1-2008)
      (6)   Vehicle storage impoundment facility provided the following
conditions are met:
         a.   Vehicles shall only be stored on a short-term basis which is
defined as 60 consecutive days for the purpose of this regulation.   
         b.   A vehicle storage impoundment facility shall be located on a site
no greater than 40,000 square feet in area.
         c.   Storage areas shall be enclosed with fencing for security
purposes. Such fencing shall be 8 feet in height. If chain link fencing is
approved for use by Dare County, then such fencing shall include slatting
within the fence openings in the same color as the fence material. The security
fencing shall be maintained as needed by the property owner. Solid fencing may
be required by Dare County as determined during conditional use review of the
site based on the existing land uses adjacent to the proposed vehicle storage
impoundment facility.
         d.   A vegetative buffer in addition to the security fencing shall be
installed and perpetually maintained where the storage yard abuts a residential
zone or a residential use to the side or rear of the site. The vegetative
buffer shall be of a sufficient size and height to effectively buffer the site
from the abutting residential zone or residential use. Existing vegetation may
be used if of sufficient size to effectively buffer the site. If existing
vegetation cannot be used, then a plan detailing the type, size and species of
vegetation proposed for use as a buffer shall be provided to the Zoning
Administrator for review and approval. The vegetative buffer shall be
maintained as needed by the property owner. Solid fencing of wood or other
solid materials may be required by Dare County.
         e.   All vehicle storage areas and buffers shall be located a minimum
distance of 100 feet from the front property line of any property that abuts US
Highway 64 on Roanoke Island or abuts NC 12 Highway on Hatteras Island shall be
established. All other sites that do not abut these highways shall be subject
to the front yard setback of 15 feet as established for the C-3 district.
         f.   All vehicles stored on the site shall be locked, enclosed or
otherwise secured to such an extent that it is impossible for a child to obtain
access or be entrapped in a vehicle.
         g.   The location of all proposed light fixtures shall be depicted on
a site plan. Lighting fixtures shall be located on the site and designed,
shielded, or oriented in such a manner as to minimize light spill across
property lines. No light fixture shall exceed 18 feet in height and the maximum
allowable footcandle from any light fixture shall not exceed a maximum of 8
footcandles. Documentation certifying the footcandle rating of any proposed
light fixtures shall be submitted with the site plan. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to ensure that all light fixtures are
maintained to ensure compliance with the footcandle rating. (Adopted 1- 22-
2013)
      (7)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (8)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (9)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)    Minimum lot size: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the County Health Department, to provide adequate siting
for structures and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for
vehicles as required by Article VII of this chapter. In addition, a visual
buffer is required where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or
zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15-feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10-feet; no side yards required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional 5-foot yard adjacent to
the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20-feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 60%.
      (6)   Height limitation: 35 feet. (11-20-75, art. 7, 7.11, 2-6-78, 2, 3,
6.)
      (7)   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space including decks and
porches shall not be used as retail space for the display of goods, or other
commercial activities.
         Group developments with a maximum area of 20,000 square feet per
individual building, excluding decks and porches.
         This gross building size limitation shall not apply to hotels and/or
motels. (Adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on May 6, 2002)
      (8)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to May 6, 2002, such structure or group development
may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status prior to
damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 2-19-07)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 9-20-
2021)
SECTION 22-26.1 - CS COMMERCIAL SERVICES DISTRICT
   (a)   Intent. The CS district is created to provide a setting for various
service establishments that are more intense in their scope of activities than
retail/office zoning districts but not as intense as those generally found in
an industrial setting.
(This district was established as part of the Colington zoning map adopted by
the Dare County Board of Commissioners on June 16, 1997.)
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses, and no other uses, shall be
permitted by right:
      (1)   Barber and beauty shops.
      (2)   Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up stations including laundromats.
      (3)   Funeral homes not to include crematoriums.
      (4)   Radio and television broadcasting studios.
      (5)   Shoe repairs.
      (6)   Storage warehouses.
      (7) Public and private utility facilities.
      (8) Indoor recreation activities.
      (9) Building supply and equipment sales.
      (10) Plumbing supply and equipment sales.
      (11) Cabinet and woodworking shops.
      (12) Building contractors’ offices and storage areas.
      (13) Boat displays and sales not to include boat repair and/or boat motor
repair.
      (14) County owned or leased facilities.
      (15)   Fire stations, public and private schools, and other public
buildings. (Adopted 5-16-11)
      (16)   Residential use in conjunction with a commercial use allowed as a
permitted or conditional use in the CS district.
      (17)   Churches. (Amended 1-22- 2019)
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Radio, television, and other types of transmission towers subject
to the provisions of Section
22-29.2.
      (2)   Automobile service stations provided that no principal or accessory
building shall be located within 50-feet of a residential use or district, that
there shall be no storage of wrecked or abandoned cars and that no portion of a
service station, building, equipment or gas pumps shall be within 25 feet of
any right-of-way.
      (3)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
      (4)   Marinas.
      (5)   Boat building and storage.
      (6)   Automobile sales and service.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 40,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as coastal wetland.
      (2)   Buffering: A solid wooden or composite material fence no less than
6 feet in height shall be installed along any property line where a commercial
use in the CS district abuts a residential use in any adjoining residential
district.
      (3)   Front yard: 15 feet.
      (4)   Side yard: 10 feet. An additional five-foot side yard adjacent to
the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Rear yard: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
uses: 60%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (8)   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space including decks and
porches shall not be used as retail space, for the display of goods, or other
commercial activities.
         Group developments with a maximum area of 20,000 square feet per
individual building, excluding decks and porches. (Adopted by the Dare County
Board of Commissioners on May 6, 2002)
      (9)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to May 6, 2002, such structure or group development
may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status prior to
damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 2-19- 2007; amended 4-17-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-26.2 - EAST LAKE COMMERCIAL SERVICES DISTRICT (ELCS) (Adopted 4-15-
2013)
   (a)   Scope and intent: The intent of the East Lake Commercial Services
zoning district is to provide for a mix of residential land uses, a broad range
of commercial uses to serve the residents and seasonal visitors, and a limited
number of service establishments that offer more intensive services than
traditionally associated with retail/office-type commercial districts but not
as intensive as those generally associated with an industrial setting.
      Any structure in existence at the time of adoption of the zoning on April
15, 2013 which is destroyed or deteriorated by natural means, either partially
or in full, may be rebuilt to 100% of its previous extent. This shall not apply
to nonconforming structures which are voluntarily removed or demolished by the
property owner. State and federal rebuilding regulations may apply to any
rebuilding project.
      Any use in existence as of April 15, 2013 shall be allowed to continue in
operation without seeking approval from Dare County if that use is listed as a
permitted use or a special use in the East Lake Commercial Services zoning
district. Additions to existing buildings or expansions of uses consistent with
this ELCS district that existed on April 15, 2013 shall be subject to
administrative review and approval by the Dare County Planning Department for
compliance with the zoning regulations. The construction of additional
principal use buildings that constitute a group development shall trigger
review and approval under the special use permit process except for accessory
dwelling units as detailed in (b)(3) below.
   (b)   Permitted uses: The following uses shall be permitted by right and any
use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited:
      (1)   Single family residential structures.
      (2)   Duplex structures.
      (3)   Customary accessory uses in conjunction with a residential use
including garages, storage sheds, pools, and other accessory use buildings.
      (4)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
subject to compliance with all supplementary local, state, and federal permit
approvals and in addition to the following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or may be detached from the principal residence. The size of an
accessory dwelling unit, whether attached or detached from the principal
residence, shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.
         e.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles shall not be used as
accessory dwelling units.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units may be used for home occupations as
defined Section
22-2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (5)   Mobile homes on individual lots provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
North Carolina State Building Code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting areas are complied with.
      (6)   Mobile Home Exceptions - The placement of not more than two mobile
homes or one mobile home and one single family home on the same lot in single
ownership provided that:
         a.   The area of the lot to be exempted is not less than 40,000 square
feet or 30,000 square feet if a central water supply is available.
         b.   The soils on the lot to be exempted have been evaluated and
determined to be suitable for on-site septic tank system (or systems) of a size
sufficient to dispose of wastewater from both units according to the minimum
specifications.
         c.   All structures are located on the property consistent with the
setback requirements of subsection (d) and are separated by not less than 20
feet from the other mobile home or single family home located on the same lot.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Fire stations and other public buildings.
      (9)   Churches, church related facilities and cemeteries.
      (10)   Family child care homes and residential child care home as defined
in Section
22-2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (11)   Commercial fishing operations including boat storage, net storage,
crab pot storage and crab shedding operations.
      (12)   Bed and breakfast homes and large bed and breakfast homes as
defined in Section
22-2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (13)   Agriculture, farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry, and related
activities for personal use.
      (14)   Home occupations as defined in Section
22-2.
      (15)   Resident businesses provided that:
         a.   Family member(s) resides on premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off the premises may be sold at the
business.
         c.   The total square footage designated as the resident business area
may not exceed 40% of the total floor area of the home or an area of the same
size in an accessory building may be dedicated for residential business use
provide such building is located on the same site.
         d.   Parking requirements of Section
22-56 for the proposed use shall be applied.
         e.   The following list of uses may be permitted as a resident
business in the ELCS district:
            1.   Offices: business, professional, medical and financial
including contractors and subcontractors offices.
            2.    Retail/wholesale: sales of antiques and furniture; apparel
and shoes; books and magazines; baked goods; bait and tackle; electronic and
computers; flowers; ice cream; coffee products; fruit and vegetable stands;
gifts, art supplies and crafts; home décor; hunting and fishing supplies;
jewelry; toys; photography products; sporting goods.
            3.   Service establishments: beauty salons including nail care,
tanning and spa services; barber shops; landscape and lawn care; photographer;
caterer; music lessons, boat repair and engine repair; kayak and non-motorized
boat rentals.
      (16)   Child care facilities which are an accessory use of an existing or
proposed church, public school, or other public building.
      (17)   Offices - business, financial, governmental, professional and
medical including contractor and subcontractor office and associated storage
areas and equipment parking.
      (18)   Retail/wholesale sales of antiques and furniture; apparel and
shoes; baked goods; books and magazines; craft and art supplies; cameras and
photography goods; candy; ice cream; pharmacies; electronics and computers;
flowers, plants and other gardening supplies; fruit and vegetables; coffee
products, gifts; hardware, hunting and fishing supplies; jewelry; sporting
goods; hardware; toys; appliances and home décor.
      (19)   Service establishments - beauty salons including spa, nail and
tanning services; barber shops; shoe repair; landscape and lawn care, sewing
and alterations; catering; florists and photography services.
      (20)   Vineyards and associated facilities used in the cultivation of
grapevines including areas for processing and bottling, storage, wholesale and
retail sales, and tasting events.
      (21)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)    Special uses: The following special uses and no other special uses
may be permitted, subject to the requirements of this district and the
regulations and requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners. Any use not
listed herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Automobile service stations including fuel service. Outside storage
of vehicles shall be enclosed by solid fencing not less than six feet in
height.
      (2)   Boat and vehicle repair services including outdoor storage of boats
and vehicles being repaired.
      (3)   Kayaks and non-motorized boat rentals.
      (4)   Public and private utility facilities and substations provided they
are located a minimum of 300 feet from any lot used for residential purposes
(measured from the lot line) or residential district boundary.
      (5)   Telecommunication towers subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (6)   Heavy equipment/vehicle sandblasting and paint shop and repair
facilities. This shall include outside storage areas of equipment and vehicles.
      (7)   Travel trailer parks and campgrounds subject to the provisions of
the Dare County Travel Trailer Park Ordinance. Travel trailers may be left in
the campground according to the specifications of the Dare County Flood
Ordinance and the Dare County Travel Trailer Park Ordinance but cannot serve as
permanent residence.
      (8)   Crematoriums.
      (9)   Restaurants and food stands as defined in Section
22-2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance subject to the following provisions:
         a.   The restaurant or food stand shall not feature a drive-thru
window whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         b.   A minimum of ten parking spaces (10' x 20' each) shall be
provided at all food stands. Such parking shall be of a dust-free service and
each space individual designated.
         c.   Restaurant parking shall be as provided in Section
22-56 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (10)   Food stores provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Fuel service may be offered at the site. All fuel pumps,
equipment and canopies shall be located a minimum of twenty-five feet from any
property line.
         b.   Only the area directly below a fuel canopy may be illuminated and
shall have a maximum foot-candle of ten. A lighting plan demonstrating
compliance with this regulation shall be submitted in conjunction with the site
plan.
         c.   Prepared food may be offered for on-premise or off-premise
consumption.
      (11)   Seafood markets as defined in Section
22-2.
      (12)   Group development whereby more than one structure is located on
the same site provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   The site must be a minimum of one acre in size.
         b.   Any use listed as a permitted or conditional use of the district
can be authorized as a group development.
         c.   Lot coverage shall not exceed 30% of the total site area for
residential group development or 60% for commercial group developments.
         d.   Other provisions of Section
22-31 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (13)   Liquefied petroleum (LP) gas sales and service facilities
including on-site bulk storage of tanks.
      (14)   Manufacturing subject to the following conditions:
         a.   Any structure or building used for manufacturing shall not exceed
10,000 square feet of heated space and 20,000 square feet of non-heated space
for a total building size of 30,000 square feet based on this heated/non-heated
square footage limitation.
         b.   Manufacturing is defined as those uses involving assembling,
disassembling, fabricating, finishing, manufacturing, packaging, repair or
processing activities consistent with those uses identified in the North
Carolina Building Code as Factory Industrial Group F and as listed below.
            1.   Aircraft and aerial vehicles.
            2.   Appliances.
            3.   Athletic equipment.
            4.   Automobiles and other motor vehicles.
            5.   Bakeries and other food processing.
            6.   Beverages.
            7.   Bicycles.
            8.   Boats.
            9.   Brooms and brushes.
            10.   Camera and photo equipment including photographic film.
            11.   Canvas, fabric, and textiles.
            12.   Carpets and rugs.
            13.   Clothing, leather products, and shoes.
            14.   Construction and agricultural equipment and machinery.
            15.   Disinfectants.
            16.   Electronics.
            17.   Engines including rebuilding.
            18.   Furniture and upholstering.
            19.   Hemp and jute products.
            20.   Ice production and storage.
            21.   Metals.
            22.   Millwork (sash and door).
            23.   Motion picture and television film production (no
spectators).
            24.   Musical instruments.
            25.   Optical goods.
            26.   Paper products.
            27.   Plastic products.
            28.   Printing and publishing.
            29.   Soaps and detergents.
            30.    Woodworking and cabinetry.
      (15)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (16)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.    Single family lots regardless of method of drinking water supply
and wastewater disposal: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soils not classified
as coastal wetlands.
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback: 25 feet from front property line.
      (4)   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet from side property line. An
additional 5 feet adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard setback: 20 feet from rear property line.   
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage up to 50% of the lot area may be authorized for those sites
with an accessory dwelling unit, a mobile home exemption, or resident business.
      (7)   Maximum height limitation: 45 feet to the highest portion of the
roof measured from the lowest natural ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter
of the exterior walls or outer perimeter of the structure. Chimneys, lightning
rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall
not be considered the highest portion of the roof.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for all other uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot area: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the Dare County Health Department, to provide adequate
siting for structures and to provide parking, loading, and maneuvering space
for vehicles. In addition, a visual buffer of dense vegetation or solid fencing
is required where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard setback: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 5-foot adjacent to the
street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet from any rear property line.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 60%.
      (6)   Gross floor area limitation: The maximum square footage of any
commercial building shall not exceed a total of 10,000 square feet, both heated
and non-heated area. The gross floor area limitation shall not apply to
churches, fire stations, and other public buildings.
      (7)   Maximum height limitation: 45 feet to the highest portion of the
roof measured from the lowest natural ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter
of the exterior walls or outer perimeter of the structure. Chimneys, lightning
rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall
not be considered the highest portion of the roof.
   (f)   Other standards:
      (1)   Unoccupied structures and their yards in platted subdivision shall
be maintained by the property owner. This includes securing of the structure
from unimpeded access, i.e., no broken windows or doors; maintaining proper
skirting under mobile homes; and maintaining the site consistent with the
standards of the Dare County Nuisance Ordinance to avoid infestations of
mosquitos, snakes, and other vermin.
      (2)   The Dare County Sign Ordinance shall apply to all zoned areas. No
additional billboards or outdoor advertising shall be erected on privately-
owned property or along the rights-of-way of the existing alignment of Highway
64 or any future expansion of State-maintained highway road improvements/
rights-of-way after the date of adoption of this ordinance.
      (3)   For commercial developments permitted after April 15, 2013, a
vegetated buffer at least six feet in height and a minimum of five feet in
width shall be installed along any property line that abuts a residential use
or residential district. Vegetation shall be of sufficient size to reach a
height of 6 feet of within 12-months of installation. Vegetative buffers shall
be maintained to ensure survivability and any dead or damaged vegetation shall
be replaced to ensure the buffer remains intact. Existing vegetation shall be
used whenever possible for buffering purposes if the existing vegetation is of
sufficient height and width to effectively buffer the abutting residential use
or residential district.
         Commercial uses in existence on April 15, 2013 shall not be required
to install a vegetative buffer along any rear or side property line that abuts
a residential use or residential district. However, any improvement to a
commercial use that increases the footprint of any building by 25% or more or
adds another residential or commercial principal use structure to the site
shall require the installation of a vegetative buffer as detailed above.
      (4)   The parking of trucks, including 18-wheeled trucks, shall be
permitted if the trucks are owned, leased, or operated by the person residing
on the property and used for business or work related activity.
   (g)   Non-conformities:
      (1)   All existing structures are 100% “grandfathered” in perpetuity, as
they exist on the date the East Lake Commercial Services zoning ordinance is
adopted. Any structure destroyed or deteriorated by natural means, either
partially or in full, may be rebuilt to 100% of its previous extent. This shall
not apply to those nonconforming structures which are voluntarily removed or
demolished by the property owner. State and federal rebuilding regulations may
apply to any rebuilding project.
      (2)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for ten consecutive months, except
when government action impedes access to the premises, the structure, or
structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with this district.
      (3)   Any structure that is in existence on the April 15, 2013 that is
rendered non-conforming with the dimensional setbacks of this zoning district
shall be considered a pre-existing non-conforming structure. Additions,
expansions, or remodeling of a non-conforming structure shall not be authorized
if the proposed addition or expansion will increase the non-conforming aspect
of the structure. However, this provision shall not be interpreted to preclude
the addition, expansion, or remodeling of any non-conforming structure if such
project can be accomplished in manner that does not increase the non-conforming
aspect of the structure.
      (4)   Non-conforming lots of record: The following setbacks and lot
coverage standards shall apply to any lot of record of as April 15, 2013 that
does not meet the dimensional standards of section (d)(1) of the ELCS district:
         a.   Lots with 5,000 square feet or less:
            1.   Front yard setback - 15 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback - 5 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 7 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 60% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 2, 500 square feet.
         b.   Lots with 5,001 square feet to 10,000 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback - 20 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback - 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 50% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 4,000 square feet.
         c.   Lots with 10,001 square feet to 14,999 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback - 25 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback - 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 40% of the lot square footage but not to exceed
a maximum of 4,500 square feet.
         d.   Lots with 15,000 square feet to 19,999 square feet:
            1.   Front yard setback - 25 feet.
            2.   Side yard setback - 10 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback shall be 15 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
            3.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
            4.   Lot coverage: 30% of the lot square footage. (Adopted 4-15-
2013)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27 - I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
The following regulations shall apply to the I-1 industrial district:
   (a)   Intent. The industrial district is established to provide for the
development of commercial and industrial facilities to better furnish a broad
range of services and commodities to serve the entire community including, but
not limited to, such facilities as commercial laundry, food and beverage ware-
housing and procession, building supply facilities, construction equipment
storage and servicing, manufacture, production and marketing of concrete and
concrete products and other similar uses.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   All uses permitted in a C-3 commercial district. Single-family
dwellings, multi-family dwellings and duplexes according to the dimensional
requirements of the R-3 residential district. The maximum dwelling density for
multi- family structures shall not exceed ten units per acre. (Amended 10-15-
2018)
      (2)   Builders’ and contractors’ supplies and storage areas.
      (3)   Construction materials processing and storage.
      (4)   Commercial dry cleaning and laundries.
      (5)   Food and beverage processing and storage.
      (6)   Industrial equipment sales and repair.
      (7)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (8)   Plumbing, heating, and mechanical contractor’s supplies, sales and
fabrication.
      (9)   Sheet metal fabrication.
      (10)   Truck terminals.
      (11)   Wholesale warehouse operations.
      (12)   Manufacture, production and marketing of concrete and concrete
products.
      (13)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (14)   Mobile homes, as provided for under the R-2 medium-density
residential district.
      (15)   Any size child care operation as defined in Section
22-2, only as an accessory use of an existing or proposed permitted or
conditional use in this district, and for the exclusive use of on-site
employees of the existing or proposed permitted or conditional use. (Adopted
11-5-90)    
      (16)   Dog agility training facility provided any outdoor training areas
are entirely fenced by solid fencing no less than 8 feet in height and subject
to the parking requirements of Section
22-56. (Adopted 1-22-2013)
      (17)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses. The following shall be special uses:
      (1)   Other uses generally intended for this district but not itemized
above as allowed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of
this chapter or
Chapter 152 of this code.
      (2)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (3)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (4)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional and development requirements.
      (1)   All uses within an I-1 district which are permitted uses in a C-
3 commercial district shall conform to the dimensional requirements set out for
the C-3 commercial district.
      (2)   Except as set out above, permitted uses within an I-1 district
shall be required to meet the following standards:
         a.   No portion of a building or open storage or processing area shall
be closer than 75 feet to a residential district boundary.
         b.   Individual lot sizes for a permitted industrial district use
shall not be less than one acre.
         c.    Any unstabilized soil exposed during construction shall be
stabilized with vegetative cover to prevent erosion by wind or surface water.
         d.   No use shall be permitted in an I-1 district which has noxious,
harmful or deleterious effect on other development.
         e.   No more than 35% of an individual lot may be covered with
buildings, parking areas or other surfaces impervious to water.
         f.   The off-street parking requirements of Article VII of this
chapter shall apply; except, that no off-street parking or loading space shall
be located closer than 50 feet to a residential district boundary or use. (11-
20-75, art. 7, 7.12)
      (3)   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space including decks and
porches shall not be used as retail space, for the display of goods, or other
commercial activities.
         Group developments with a maximum area of 20,000 square feet per
individual building, excluding decks and porches.
         This gross building size limitation shall not apply to hotels and/or
motels. (Adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on May 6, 2002)
      (4)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to May 6, 2002, such structure or group development
may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status prior to
damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 2-19-07)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.1 - S-1 SPECIAL DISTRICT
   (a)   Intent. The S-1 special district is established as a transitional area
to allow broad flexibility of services and uses while establishing certain
density limitations, setbacks, parking requirements and other general
requirements.
   (b)   Permitted uses. All uses are permitted.
   (c)   Multiple building project.  
      (1)   Projects with more than one principal building per lot shall be
submitted for site plan review under Section
22-31, Group Development of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance and shall be
subject to the dwelling density limitations of Section
22-27.1 (d).
      (2)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (3)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (4)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional Requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size requirements for residential lots.
         a.   Single-family structures:
            Single-family detached residential lot served by a private well and
an individual on-site wastewater system: 20,000 square feet of soils classified
as “suitable” for septic tank ground absorption wastewater treatment systems
within the USDA soil survey for Dare County or by the Dare County Department of
Health.
            Single-family detached residential lot served by central water
supply and an individual on-site wastewater system: 15,000 square feet of soils
classified as “suitable” for septic tank ground absorption wastewater treatment
systems within the USDA soil survey for Dare County or by the Dare County
Department of Health.
            Single-family detached residential lot served by central water
supply and central wastewater treatment plant: 15,000 square feet. The
composition of soils on lots served by off-site wastewater treatment shall be
as follows:
            (i)   Soils not classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or US Army
Corps of Engineers 404 jurisdictional soils: not less than 11,250 square feet
per lot.
            (ii)   Lots that are platted at greater than 15, 000 square feet
may have a greater amount of wetland soils, but must have at least 11,250
square feet of soils not classified as wetland, coastal marsh, or Section 404
jurisdictional soils.
         b.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
         c.   Density limitations for multi-family structures, hotels and
motels:
         Multi-family structures: Maximum floor area ratio: 0.4 of the gross
area of a parcel. (Amended 2-1-16)
         Hotels, motels, and similar structures:
         (i)   Structures on a lot or tract that has no soils classified as
wetlands, coastal marsh, or Section 404 jurisdictional soils: 10 rental units
per acre.
         (ii)   Structures on a lot or tract that has between .01% and 19.9% of
its soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or Section 404 jurisdictional
soils: 8 rental units per acre.
         (iii)   Structures on a lot or tract that has more than 20% of its
soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or Section 404 jurisdictional
soils: 6 rental units per acre.
      (2)   Minimum lot width for residential development: 75 feet, measured at
the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard setback: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard setback: 10 feet. For lots with fifty feet or
less of width existing prior to September 9, 1987 the minimum side yard setback
shall be 8 feet.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard setback: 20 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage for multifamily structures:
         Maximum lot coverage: 30% of total lot area for projects dedicated
entirely to multifamily residential development.
         Maximum lot coverage: 45% of total lot area for mixed use projects
featuring a combination of multifamily residential and commercial development
if 49.99% or less of the gross square footage of all buildings is dedicated to
commercial use. To qualify for an increase in lot coverage, at least 10% of the
gross square footage of all proposed buildings shall be dedicated to commercial
use.
         Maximum lot coverage: 60% of the total lot area for mixed use projects
featuring a combination of multifamily residential and commercial development
if 50% or more of the gross square footage of all buildings is dedicated to
commercial use.
(Amended 2-1-16)
      (7)   Height limitation: Highest floor level shall be no greater than 35
feet above the lowest ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter of the exterior
walls of the structure. Overall height of a structure from ground level to its
highest point shall not exceed 52 feet.
      (8)   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space including decks and
porches shall not be used as retail space for the display of goods, or other
commercial activities.
         Group developments with a maximum area of 20,000 square feet per
individual building, excluding decks and porches.
         This gross building size limitation shall not apply to hotels and/or
motels. (Maximum floor area standards adopted by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners on May 6, 2002)
      (9)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to May 6, 2002, such structure or group development
may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status prior to
damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 2-19-07)
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for commercial development.
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots shall be of sufficient size to
meet requirements of the Dare County Health Department, to provide adequate
siting for structures and to provide parking, loading and maneuvering space for
vehicles as required by Article VII of this chapter. In addition, a visual
buffer is required where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or
zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard setback: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard is required if commercial
building constructed with common wall. An additional 5-foot adjacent to the
street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage: 60%.
      (6)   Height limitation: Highest floor level shall be no greater than 35
feet above the lowest ground grade within a 50 foot perimeter of the exterior
walls of the structure. Overall height of a structure from ground level to its
highest point shall not exceed 52 feet.
      (7)   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space including decks and
porches shall not be used as retail space for the display of goods or other
commercial activities.
         Group developments with a maximum area of 20,000 square feet per
individual building, excluding decks and porches.
         This gross building size limitation shall not apply to hotels and/or
motels. (Maximum floor area standards adopted by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners on May 6, 2002.)
      (8)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to May 6, 2002, such structure or group development
may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status prior to
damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 2-19- 07)
   (f)   Dimensional requirements for industrial development.
      (1)   Industrial lots shall be at least 40,000 square feet in area.
      (2)   No portion of a building or open storage or processing area shall
be closer than 75 feet to a residential structure.
      (3)   Any unstabilized soil exposed during construction shall be
stabilized with vegetative cover to prevent erosion by wind or surface water.
      (4)   No industrial use shall be permitted which has noxious, harmful, or
deleterious effects on other development.
      (5)   No more than 35% of an individual lot may be covered with
buildings, parking areas or other surfaces impervious to water.
      (6)   The off-street parking requirements of Article VII of this chapter
shall apply, except that no off-street parking or loading space shall be
located closer than 50 feet to a residential use.
      (7)   Highest floor level shall be no greater than 35 feet above the
lowest ground grade within a 50-foot perimeter of exterior walls of the
structure. Overall height of a structure from ground level to its highest point
shall not exceed 52 feet.
   (g)   Non-conforming projects.
      (1)   Any group development project that features multifamily structures
and commercial structures authorized by Dare County prior to February 1, 2016
with a lot coverage percentage of 60% shall be considered a pre-existing group
development. This 60% lot coverage shall be applied to the site regardless of
any changes that may be authorized by Dare County for the group development
project site after February 1, 2016.
      (2)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% of value) of a group development in
existence on February 1, 2016 such group development may be repaired, replaced
or reconstructed to 100% of its status if the original lot coverage of the
project is different than the lot coverage standards established above.
(Adopted 2-1-16)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.2 - V-C VILLAGE COMMERCIAL
   (a)   Intent. The V-C district is established to provide limited commercial
areas to serve existing or developing residential neighborhoods in the county.
The intent of this district is to provide the goods and services needed by
permanent and seasonal visitors in concentrated locations on state maintained
highways.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical and professional.
      (2)   Primary retail stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Books.
         b.   Cameras.
         c.   Candy.
         d.   Clothing.
         e.   Craft goods.
         f.   Dry goods.
         g.   Drugs.
         h.   Flowers.
         i.   Gifts.
         j.   Hardware.
         k.   Hobby goods.
         l.   Jewelry.
         m.   Leather goods.
         n.   Magazines.
         o.   Notions.
         p.   Sporting goods.
         q.   Toys.
         r.   Food stores.
      (3)   Service establishments including such uses as:
         a.   Barbershops and beauty shops.
         b.   Churches.
         c.   Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up stations, including laundromats.
         d.   Family child-care homes as defined in Section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
         e.   Residential child care centers as defined in Section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
          f.   Commercial child-care centers as defined in Section
22-2. (Adopted 11-5-90)
      (4)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (5)   Mobile homes on individual lots; provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
state building code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
      (6)   Public and private schools.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses may be permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Gas pumps in conjunction with a permitted use under subsection (b)
of this section; provided, that no principal or accessory building shall be
located within fifty feet of a residential use or residential district and that
any such gas pumps shall be set back at least twenty-five feet from all rights-
of-way.
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (3)   Seafood market.
      (4)   Boat launching and rental facilities.
      (5)   Restaurants - Restaurants may be permitted subject to other
requirements of this chapter and provided that the following minimum conditions
are met:
         a.   The restaurant shall not feature a drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         b.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor seating and
consumption of food and/or beverages.
            Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Planning Board and/or
Board of Commissioners. (Amended by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on
1-21-97)
      (6)   Group developments with a maximum area of 10,000 square feet per
individual building excluding porches and decks. (As amended by the Dare County
Board of Commissioners on 8-2-99)
   (d)   Dimensional requirements of all uses other than detached single-family
dwellings and mobile homes.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 square feet. Commercial lots shall be of
sufficient size to meet requirements of the County Health Department, to
provide adequate siting for structures, and to provide parking, loading and
maneuvering space for vehicles as required by Article VII. In addition, a
visual buffer of vegetation or fencing and a 20-foot wide setback is required
where a commercial use or zone abuts a residential use or zone.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard required if commercial
building constructed with a common wall. An additional five-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 60%.
      (6)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (7)   Maximum Gross Building Size: 10,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space shall not exceed 10% of
the total amount of heated floor area. (As amended by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners on 8-2-99)
      (8)   Minimum Building Separation: All buildings established as part of a
group development shall be separated by not less than 20 feet. (As amended by
the Dare County Board of Commissioners on 8-2-99)
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for detached single-family dwellings and
mobile homes.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         a.   Single-family lots served by a private well and an on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 square feet of area.
         b.   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 square feet of area.
            Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a central
wastewater disposal system: 15,000 square feet of area. (Amended 9-19-94)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. An additional 10-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures: 30%.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
   (f)   Non-conformities: Restaurants existing prior to January 21, 1997 that
do not conform to conditions (c) (5) a and b shall be non-conforming uses. In
the event a non-conforming restaurant in the VC district is destroyed or
damaged beyond 50% of its tax value, that restaurant may be reconstructed to
its former status but may not be enlarged. This non-conforming use clause shall
expire 40 years from January 21, 1997. (As amended by the Board of
Commissioners on 1-21-97)
      Buildings that do not conform to Section
22-27.2 (d) (7) shall be non-conforming structures. In the event a building
that does not conform with Section
22-27.2 (d) (7) is destroyed or damaged beyond 50% of its tax value, that
building may be reconstructed to its former status but may not be enlarged.
This non-conforming clause shall expire 30 years from August 2, 1999. (As
amended by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on 8-2-99)
   (g)   Lighting Standards.
Section I. Intent and Purpose
The intent of this ordinance is to set standards for outdoor lighting at proper
intensities, so as to adequately serve the intended use and not unreasonably
interfere with the use and enjoyment of neighboring properties. It is further
intended that such standards shall preserve the visual integrity of the
nighttime environment by reducing glare and maintaining the character and
integrity of the coastal village.
The purpose is to regulate artificial lighting devices and encourage lighting
that enhances visual performance and safety, particularly the illumination of
buildings and landscaping, lighting of parking areas, loading zones, open
canopies and signs.
Section II. - Definitions
FOOT-CANDLE - The measurement unit indicating quantity of light on a surface
area, particularly intensity of light (see lumen) per square foot area. The
term 'maintained foot-candle' is used to denote adjustment for dirt build up or
fixture aging (a depreciation factor).
FULLY SHIELDED - A light fixture whose housing is horizontal and opaque on top
so that light is spread below and around but not above.
GLARE - The experience of luminance within a visual field significantly greater
than lighting to which eyes are accustomed causing loss of visual performance
and discomfort.
LIGHT FIXTURES - Any electrically powered illuminating device, reflective
surface, lamp or any similar device used for illumination or advertisement.
LUMEN - The unit measuring the quantity and intensity of light emitted by a
light source, especially as it falls on a surface area. The lowest quantity of
light on one square foot area is termed one foot-candle.
RECESSED OR FLUSH MOUNTED - a fixture mounted above the ceiling with the
opening, lens or cover of the fixture recessed or level with the ceiling
surface whereby all light is emitted below the horizontal plane.
STRUCTURE HIGHLIGHTING -
   (1)   Exposed or channel neon, argon, krypton or similar gas tube lighting
attached to and outlining a structure or building so as to direct attention to
the same.
   (2)   Any light source that illuminates a translucent two or three-
dimensional surface, or object, that is not part of a permitted sign and
directs attention to a building or structure.
Section III. Lighting Prohibited
   (1)   Light fixtures which imitate official highway or traffic control
lights or signs.
   (2)   Light fixtures in the direct line of vision with any traffic control
lights or signs.
   (3)   Light fixtures with blinking, flashing or intermittent illumination.
   (4)   Light fixtures that violate any law of the State of North Carolina.
   (5)   Illumination of public beach or estuarine waters from uses which are
not water dependent shall be prohibited.
   (6)   Light fixtures, which are a source of glare by their design,
orientation or intensity.
   (7)   Structure highlighting is prohibited.
Section IV. General Provisions
   (1)   Lighting fixtures shall be located on the site and designed, shielded
or oriented in such a manner as to minimize light spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property.
   (2)   All wiring to light fixtures not located on a building shall be placed
underground.
   (3)   Principal buildings shall provide security lighting.
   (4)   No light fixtures shall exceed 18 feet in height.
   (5)   Commercial buildings with more than 50% glass on any exterior wall
must have a shield or oriented in such a manner as to minimize light spill
across property lines and prevent glare at any location on or off the property.
   (6)   Light fixtures and supporting structures shall be designed and
constructed to comply with North Carolina State Building Code requirements.
   (7)   For any conditional use, an outdoor lighting plan shall be submitted
in conjunction with the submission of a site plan for Board of Commissioner
review. For those projects not subject to conditional use permit review, an
outdoor lighting plan may be required for those projects that feature a total
of 10 or more exterior light fixtures as depicted on the site plans and/or
building plans.
Section V. Application Standards
These are based on use and anticipated activity as follows:
   (1)   High levels of activity including gas stations, convenience stores,
restaurants, drive-through eating places and banks.
   (2)   Medium level after-dark activity includes retail and shopping centers,
hospitality establishments, health clinics and indoor recreational uses.
   (3)   Low-level activity includes professional offices, churches and private
clubs.
   A.   Specific Lighting Standards
      (1)   Canopy lighting - open canopies located over automobile service
stations, gas pumps and drive through banking facilities.
         a.   Only the area directly below a canopy may be illuminated and
shall have maximum foot-candles of ten.
         b.   Parking spaces not located directly beneath the canopy shall be
lighted in accordance with standard parking areas.
      (2)   Security Lighting
         a.   To be used for protection of people and property including
illumination above doorways and entries. Security lighting shall not exceed one
maintained foot-candle.
         b.   Areas solely for pedestrian circulation - walkways shall be
provided with security level illumination.
      (3)   Architectural and Interior Lighting
         a.   Light fixtures mounted on a building shall be recessed, fully
shielded or directed to the wall surface.
         b.   Floodlights may be utilized to up light opaque wall surfaces from
the ground.
         c.   The maximum vertical illumination, of an entrance facade shall
not exceed (5) average maintained foot-candles.
         d.   When a single wall surface area of a building is 50% glass or
greater, or when interior light fixtures are visible from the property line or
off- site location, the interior light fixtures shall be fully shielded to
prevent line of sight contact with light source lens or opening. Further, a
canopy or overhang of not less than 4' shall deflect any glare.
      (4)   Outdoor Recreational Uses: Sports floodlight fixtures may be
utilized provided they shall be hooded and directed or shielded such that light
source cannot be viewed directly from adjacent properties and streets.
      (5)   Illuminated signs to be addressed separately.
   B.   Lighting Allowances by foot-candle.
Use Minimum Maximum
Use                        Minimum Maximum
Service Station (canopy)   2       10
Restaurant                 4       8
Retail                     4       8
Parking Lots               1       8
Architectural surface area 1       5
Walkways                   .5      .5
Security                   .5      8
 
Section VI. Measurements
   1.   Measurements are to be made in foot-candles with a direct reading,
portable light meter.
   2.   Unless otherwise specified, the meter sensor shall be mounted not more
than 6 inches above ground level in a horizontal position to measure horizontal
illumination. Vertical illumination shall be measured at a height of 5' with
the sensor mounted not more than 6 inches from the wall surface and the meter
sensor in the vertical position.
Section VII. Non-Conforming Fixtures
Any existing light fixtures that do not conform to the standards of these
lighting regulations shall be non-conforming fixtures and may continue in
operation until May 7, 2006. Any non-conforming fixtures that are destroyed or
removed must be replaced in conformance with these standards.
As adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on May 7, 2001 and to be
immediately effective for those areas zoned VC.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.3 - SED - 1 SPECIAL ENVIRONMENTAL DISTRICT
   (a)   Intent. The specifications and standards of the SED-1 Zoning District
are established in order to protect public health and welfare, to preserve the
quality of the fresh water supply aquifer which lies beneath the Buxton Woods
Forest, to provide an environmentally compatible setting for low density
residential housing, and to preserve the economic, aesthetic, and unique and
irreplaceable natural resource assets of the land, vegetation, surface waters,
and underground waters of this district.
   (b)    Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted by right:
      (1)   Detached single-family residential structures.
      (2)   Duplex (2 family) structures.
      (3)   Customary accessory buildings.
      (4)   Publicly owned nature preserves or parks.
      (5)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (6)   Publicly and/or privately owned water distribution systems and all
associated underground fixtures including production wells. (8-19-91)
      (7)   Mobile homes located on individual parcels or lots provided the
mobile home meets the wind zone III standards (constructed after July 13, 1994)
as defined in
Chapter 156 of the Dare County Code of Ordinances. (This use added on February
20, 2006)
   (c)   Special uses: The following uses may be permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Wastewater treatment facilities.
      (2)   Publicly and or privately owned water production facilities and all
associated improvements that are located above ground, including elevated and/
or ground level storage tanks. (8-19-91)
      (3)   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2 and subject to the provisions of Section
22-29.1. (Adopted 11-5-90; amended 5-16-11)
      (4)   Residential child care centers.
   (d)   Dimensional Requirements:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family detached residence: 40,000 square feet.
         b.   Duplex lot: 80,000 square feet.
         c.   Cluster lot: 160,000 or greater square feet, which may be
developed at a dwelling density of one unit per 40,000 square feet of land area
(or 4 single family structures per cluster lot) provided that the structures
are located on the lot in such a manner that development and land clearing
activities are remote from any wetland, swale, or pond, and that any associated
clearing does not exceed 20% of the lot if the total lot area. Cluster lots may
be recorded at the prescribed minimum or may be the result of a recombination
of previously recorded lots, that, when combined, equal a total of 160,000 or
greater square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: Measured at the building line.
         a.   40,000 - 59,999 square foot lots = 100 feet.
         b.   60,000 - 79,999 square foot lots = 150 feet.
         c.   80,000 or greater square foot lots = 200 feet.
      (3)   Setbacks
         a.   Front yard
            (1)   lots with 100 feet of depth - 25 feet.
            (2)   lots with 101-150 feet of depth - 35 feet.
            (3)   lots with 151 or more feet of depth - 50 feet.
         b.   Side Yard
            (1)   lots with 100-149 feet of width - 20 feet.
            (2)   lots with 150 - 199 feet of width - 30 feet.
            (3)   lots with 200 or more feet of width - 50 feet.
            (4)   Cluster lots - 40 feet between clustered structures or 20
feet of side yard for each structure.
         c.   Rear yard
            (1)   lots with 100 feet of depth - 25 feet.
            (2)   lots with 101-150 feet of depth 35 feet.
            (3)   lots with 151 or more feet of depth - 50 feet.
      (4)   Building Height Limit - Rooflines, measured at the peak, shall not
extend more than 35 feet above the average grade within a 50-foot perimeter
around the structure.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage by principal use structure and any accessory
use structures or improvements combined.
         a.   Lots with a total area of 40,000 - 59,999 square feet - 35%.
         b.   Lots with a total area of 60,000 - 79,999 square feet - 30%.
         c.   Lots with a total area of 80,000 or more square feet - 25%.
         d.   Lots used as cluster sites - 20%.
   (e)   Special SED-1 Standards.
      (1)   Site alteration shall not occur prior to the issuance of a building
permit unless otherwise authorized. Trees shall not be removed except as
necessary for the construction of the principal structure, accessory use,
parking area, driveway access and septic tank/nitrification field system. Land
disturbing activities and site alteration shall not exceed the minimum
necessary to provide for the location of the principal use structure, any
accessory use improvements, driveway access, and utility service improvements,
such as nitrification fields.
      (2)   Off-street parking, driveways, and carports: All off-street parking
improvements, drive-ways, and carports shall be designated to minimize
impervious lot coverage and shall be constructed of only the following
materials, clay, stone, marl, gravel, river-rock, or semi-porous paving block.
Each principal use structure shall be allowed to install 1,000 square feet of
concrete or asphalt parking or accessory use area.
      (3)   Wetland buffer. Existing natural wetlands, ponds, and wetland
swales shall not be dredged, filled or otherwise altered from their natural
state. No structure, paved area, or any part of a ground absorption wastewater
treatment system shall be located within 50 feet of any marsh, stream, pond, or
wetland. Minor road crossing fill for property access shall be allowed only as
authorized under the jurisdiction of the Army Corps of Engineers specifications
for access roads.
         a.   Inter-connecting roads exempt. Subdivision roads that follow the
alignment of existing inter-connecting roads along any ridge-swale formation
shall not be located within 10’ of any wetland, pond, or wetland swale provided
such roads do not exceed 20’ in pavement width.
      (4)   Right-of-way and pavement width specifications: Right-of-way and
pavement width specifications. Right-of-way widths shall not exceed 45 feet
including land cleared for shoulders and drainage, pavement width shall not
exceed 30 feet. Curb and gutter drainage systems shall not be installed in the
SED-1 zoning district.
   (f)   Site Plan Review Requirements: All development projects and land
disturbing activities in the SED-1 zoning district shall submit, in conjunction
with the building permit application, a site plan prepared and sealed by a
North Carolina registered land surveyor or engineer, which shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Subdivision plats of greater than 20 lots shall indicate the
location of a groundwater monitoring well location site on the subdivision
plat.
      (2)   Present recorded owner and map book reference and subdivision title
of the site property.
      (3)   Boundary of the entire lot by course and distance.
      (4)   Width and location of the existing rights-of-way.
      (5)   Nature or purpose, location and size of existing easements.
      (6)   Iron pins, three-eighths inches in diameter and thirty-six inches
in length shall be shown and installed at all lot corners, points of tangents
and any angle point along a given course of the lot.
      (7)   Plan drawn to at least one inch equals one- hundred-foot scale
showing north arrow.
      (8)   Site zoning.
      (9)   Streets showing the width of pavement within the boundaries of the
project site.
      (10) All other underground utilities and facilities.
      (11) Proposed building type (brick or frame), number of floors and
dimensions.
      (12) Proposed front elevation and first floor elevation.
      (13) Location and type of all sidewalks and driveways within the site.
      (14) Percentage of land disturbing activity.
      (15) Location of sanitary sewer facilities with connection to sewer
system or septic tank.
      (16) Finished grades shall be shown for the entire site.
      (17) An inventory of all trees of a caliper greater than 4”, those
existing and those to be removed.
      (18) Dimensions and square footage of lot or lots to be developed.
The site plan for all proposed development projects to be located in the SED-
1 Zoning District shall be submitted to the office of the Building Inspector
not less than five working days prior to the date site preparation and/or
construction is to begin. The building inspector and/or zoning administrator
shall visit each site prior to the authorization of any construction or land
disturbing activity. At the discretion of the building inspector and/or zoning
administrator, an additional five working day review period may be required in
order for additional information to be gathered or for independent review to
occur. Upon the expiration of the seconded optional review period, the building
inspector shall either authorize the construction or deny authorization for the
same.
   (g)   Non-conforming lots. Lots recorded or approved preliminarily by the
Board of Commissioners prior to February 8, 1988 shall be considered pre-
existing, non-conforming lots and shall be subject to the following guidelines:
      (1)   Setbacks
         a.   Lots with 99 or less feet of width:
            (1)   Front - 30 feet.
            (2)   Side - 10 feet.
            (3)   Rear - 20% of total depth or 20 feet whichever is less.
         b.   Lots with 100 feet or more of width:
            (1)   Front - 30 feet.
            (2)   Side - 12 feet.
            (3)   Rear - 20% of total depth or 20 feet, whichever is less.
      (2)   Maximum lot coverage by principal use structure and any accessory
use or structure.
         a.   Lots with 39,999 - 30,0000 square feet - 30%.
         b.   Lots with 29,999 - 20,000 square feet - 35%.
         c.   Lots with 19,999 square feet or less - 35%.
      (3)   Site alteration and vegetation removal - same as section e, (1).
      (4)   Off-street parking, driveways, and carports: Same as section e, (2)
including the 1,000 square foot asphalt and concrete exemption.
      (5)   Site plan review: Same as section f, (1) - (7) (Adopted March 21,
1988 by the Dare County Board of Commissioners.)
ZONING AMENDMENT - BUXTON WOODS
This zoning amendment was adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on
September 19, 1988.
All land located between the center line of the intersection of NC 12 and Billy
Mitchell Airport Road, and the center line of the intersection of NC 12 and
Cape Hatteras Lighthouse Road, for a distance of ½ mile north (meg. 1988) from
an SED-1 District shall be subject to the following additional requirements:
Dwelling density within the zone of influence of the SED Ordinance: No multi-
family development, townhouses, or condominium project located with ½ mile of
any SED-1 zoning district shall exceed a dwelling density of three single
family units (whether contained under one or more roofs) per acre or usable
land area. Usable land shall be that land defined as “suitable” for septic
tank/nitrification field wastewater disposal by the U.S. Department of
Agriculture/Soil Conservation Service Soil Survey for Dare County and the Dare
County Board of Health.
Vegetation Removal: All subdivision, and all development projects within ½ mile
of an SED-1 zoning district which are subject to site plan review, shall
conform to the land clearing provisions of the SED Zoning District, Section
22-27.3 (e) (1) - Site Alteration.
SECTION 22-27.4 - HOD-1 HEIGHT OVERLAY DISTRICT
   (a)   Intent. The HOD-1 is established to provide a uniform set of building
height standards proportional to lot size in all zoning districts on Hatteras
Island except for the S-1 and SED-1 districts and as established in (c) for
Hatteras village. The building height standards for the S-1 and SED-1 districts
are located in Section
22-27.1, Section
22-22.4 and Section
22-27.3 respectively.
   (b)   Height Limitations.
   a.   Lots 7,499 square feet or less in area - Building height shall be
limited to a total of 35 feet, measured as an average of the peak of the roof.
      b.   Lots 7,500 square feet to 14,999 square feet in area - Building
height shall be limited to 35 feet to the top plate of the ceiling of the
highest habitable floor for a total building height of 42 feet, measured as an
average of the peak of the roof.
   c.   Lots 15,000 square feet or greater in area - Building height shall be
limited to 35 feet for the highest horizontal structural member of the highest
habitable floor, plus 10 feet for interior walls or a top plate level of 45
feet, plus 7 additional feet for attic space and roof line design, for a total
building height of 52 feet, measured at the peak of the roof. (Adopted 8-16-93)
   (c)   Height Limitations for Hatteras village overlay district.
52 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the highest elevation of any feature
of the structure or portion of the roof measured from the approximate center of
the structure. For those properties where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD
1988, building height shall be measured from the highest adjacent grade to the
proposed structural footprint. For the purposes of this section natural grade
is defined as the highest of (1) natural ground elevation before any land
disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground elevation created by the placement
of fill on a site on or before June 2, 2003; or (3) the re-grading of natural
topographic conditions in preparation of construction activities. Chimneys,
lighting rods, weather vanes, wind gauges and other similar roof appurtenances
shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The pitch of the
principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. This height limitation shall apply
to residential structures located within an overlay area established from the
National Park Service oceanfront boundary to a distance of 500 feet landward as
depicted on the Hatteras Village zoning map.
Those areas zoned RS–1 in Hatteras Village shall conform with the standards
found in this section under (b).
Those areas zoned R-2H, R2-AH, and C-2H outside of the 500’ overlay district
shall conform with the building height limitations found in Section
22-22.3, Section
22-22.1 and Section
22-25.1 respectively.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.5 - VC-2 VILLAGE COMMERCIAL
   (a)   Intent. The VC-2 district is established to provide limited commercial
areas to serve existing or developing residential neighborhoods in the county.
The intent of this district is to provide goods and services for permanent
residents and seasonal visitors.
   (b)   Permitted uses. The following uses, and no other uses, shall be
permitted by right:
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical and professional.
      (2)   Primary retail stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Books.
         b.   Cameras.
         c.   Candy.
         d.   Clothing.
         e.   Craft goods.
         f.   Dry goods.
         g.   Drugs.
         h.   Flowers.
         i.   Gifts.
         j.   Hardware.
         k.   Hobby goods.
         l.   Jewelry.
         m.   Leather goods.
         n.   Magazines.
         o.   Notions.
         p.   Sporting goods.
         q.   Toys.
         r.   Food stores.
      (3)   Service establishments including such uses as:
         a.   Barber shops and beauty shops.
         b.   Churches.
         c.   Dry cleaning and laundry pick-up stations, including Laundromats.
         d.   Family child care homes as defined in Section
22-2.
         e.   Residential child care centers as defined in Section
22-2.
         f.   Commercial child care centers as defined in Section
22-2.
         g.   Large bed and breakfast homes as defined in Section
22-2. (This use added on October 17, 2005)
      (4)   Detached single-family dwellings.
      (5)   Mobile homes on individual lots, provided that:
         a.   They are placed on foundations and anchored according to the
State Building Code for mobile homes in a hurricane area;
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area are complied with.
      (6)   Public and private schools.
      (7)   County owned or leased facilities.
      (8)   Crab shedding operations.
      (9)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses. The following uses are permitted subject to the
requirements of this district and additional regulations and requirements
imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided in Article IX of this
chapter:
      (1)   Gas pumps in conjunction with a permitted use under subsection (b)
of this section; provided that no principal or accessory building shall be
located within 50 feet of a residential use or residential district and that
any such gas pumps shall be set back at least 25 feet from all rights-of-way.
      (2)   Public and private utility facilities.
      (3)   Seafood markets.
      (4)   Marinas as defined in Section
22-2, boat launching and rental facilities. (Amended 12-2-2024)
      (5)   Restaurants - Restaurants may be permitted subject to other
requirements of this chapter and provided that the following minimum conditions
are met:
         a.   The restaurant shall not feature a drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         b.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor seating and
consumption of food and/or beverages.
         c.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners.
Non-conformities: Restaurants existing prior to January 21, 1997 that do not
conform with conditions (c) (5) a and b shall be non-conforming uses. In the
event a non-conforming restaurant in the VC-2 district is destroyed or damaged
beyond 50% of its tax value, that restaurant may be reconstructed to its former
status but may not be enlarged. This non-conforming use clause shall expire 40
years from January 21, 1997.
      (6)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (7)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
      (8)   Food stands and mobile food units. (Adopted 3-19-2018)
      (9)   Retail garden shops and landscaping businesses may be permitted
subject to the requirements of this chapter and provided that the following
minimum conditions are met:
         1.   Storage of mulch material may be allowed for retail sale only.
Storage ”stockpiles” shall not exceed 6’ in height and no more than three
stockpiles are allowed for each site. Industrial production of mulch is not
permitted.
         2.   One accessory greenhouse for storage and outdoor protection of
the plants ispermitted. Greenhouse is not to be used for wholesale growing of
plants.
         3.   Associated equipment used by the landscape business such as
trailers, lawn mowers, single-axle trucks and tractors may be stored on the
site. This shall not include draglines, bulldozers, or other heavy industrial
equipment. This shall not be interpreted to prohibit the storage of 1 backhoe
on the site.
         4.   Storage areas of mulch and equipment shall be buffered by either
fencing (wood, masonry or vinyl) or dense vegetation when such storage areas
abut a residential use or zone to the side or rear of the landscaping business
site. Buffers shall be at least 6 feet in height but shall not exceed 10 feet
in height. The buffers shall be maintained to ensure adequate screening. If
vegetation is used, a plan detailing the type, size and species to be used
shall be provided to the Planning Director for review and approval. Existing
on-site vegetation may be used if approved by the Planning Director. (Adopted
9-6-11)
         5.   Outdoor display and storage of bags of plant soil, mulch,
fertilizer, landscaping stone, landscape timbers, yard ornaments etc. shall not
restrict parking areas. Bags of soil, mulch, etc. shall be stacked in an
orderly manner.
         6.   Bulk irrigation piping shall be stored indoors. (as adopted by
the DCBC on June 3, 2002).
      (9)   Tattoo studios. (Adopted 2-16-2009)
      (10)   Boat, boat motors, and boat trailer sales, boat/boat motor repairs
and associated outdoor boat storage subject to the following:
         a.   Solid fencing of wood or composite materials shall be used for
buffering the site along any side or rear property line that adjoins a
residential use. The minimum height of such fence shall be ten feet. Such fence
shall be perpetually maintained by the business owner to provide an appropriate
buffer. This fence shall be erected prior to the sale of boats, boat motors, or
boat trailers commences at the site. (Adopted 4-21- 14)
         b.   No dry stack storage facilities are permitted.
         c.   No bulk storage of fuel or fuel sales is permitted. (Adopted 7-
19-10)
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for all uses other than detached single-
family dwellings and mobile homes.
      (1)   Minimum lot area: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet. No side yard is required if commercial
building is constructed with a common wall. An additional 5-foot side yard
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet.
      (5)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
uses: 60%.
      (6)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
      (7)   In the event a natural disaster or accidental occurrence leads to
extensive damage (in excess of 50% value) of a structure or group development
project in existence prior to May 6, 2002, such structure or group development
may be repaired, replaced or reconstructed to 100% of its status prior to
damage or destruction but no greater unless otherwise authorized by the Dare
County Board of Commissioners. (Adopted 2-19-07)
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for detached single family dwellings and
mobile homes.
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         (a)   Single-family lots served by a private well and on-site septic
tank/drain field system: 20,000 contiguous square feet of soil not classified
as a coastal wetland.
         (b)   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and an on-
site septic tank/drain field system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
         (c)   Single-family lots served by a central water supply and a
central wastewater disposal system: 15,000 contiguous square feet of soil not
classified as a coastal wetland.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet, measured at the building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an addition 10-foot side yard setback
adjacent to the street is required for a corner lot.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 25 feet.
      (6)   Maximum allowable lot coverage by principal use and all accessory
structures and uses: 30 percent.
      (7)   Height limitation: 35 feet.
   (Adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on June 16, 1997)
      (8)   Maximum gross building size: 20,000 square feet excluding decks,
porches, and similar non-heated space. Non-heated space including decks and
porches shall not be used as retail space, for the display of goods, or other
commercial activities.
         Group developments with a maximum area of 20,000 square feet per
individual building, excluding decks and porches.
         This gross building size limitation shall not apply to hotels and/or
motels. (Adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on May 6, 2002)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.6 - AO AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT
   The AO Airport Overlay District is established to regulate and restrict the
height of structures and objects of natural growth, and otherwise to regulate
the use of property, in the vicinity of the Dare County Regional Airport. The
height limitations, requirements and other restrictions pertaining to the AO
Airport Overlay District are contained in Section 150.15 through and including
Section 150.24 of the Dare County, North Carolina Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 4-4-2005)
SECTION 22-27.7 - WANCHESE VILLAGE RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT (VR)
   Residential area located in the center of the village at Old School House
Road and most roads intersecting from a portion of and north of E. R. Daniels
Road.
   (a)   Scope and intent: The intent of the Wanchese Village Residential
Zoning District is to preserve the traditional family-fishing atmosphere while
protecting the environmentally-sensitive coastal wetlands and other unique
features of the Village of Wanchese. This district provides for and encourages
single-family residential land use that permits a traditional village business,
whereby the property owner resides on the premises and carries on a business
use on site of the primary residence. The traditional village business is
identified as a commercial accessory use to the residential district and has
long been associated with the Village of Wanchese. The district also supports
mobile homes on an individual lot or parcel of land.
      Furthermore, the district will promote stable, permanent neighborhoods,
characterized by low vehicular traffic flows and low impact of development. The
single-family district is designed to secure a comfortable, healthy, safe and
pleasant environment for those who live there, as well as future development of
such neighborhoods. The Wanchese Village Residential District serves to protect
the fishing village atmosphere and family-oriented business way of life, which
gives the village its attractiveness, both as a place to live and a place to
visit.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansions of uses in
existence on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and
approval by the Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning
regulations. Construction of additional principal use structures at existing
business sites that would require a special use permit if not already
established prior to March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the
special use permit process.
      The following uses shall be permitted by right and any use not permitted
herein shall be deemed prohibited:   
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings on individual lots.
      (2)   Single-family mobile homes located on individual lots, provided:
         a.   Compliance with building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the requirements of the building inspector
regarding skirting materials and skirting area.
      (3)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (4)   Customary accessory uses associated with principal use, including
windmills not to exceed height limit of this district, garages, sheds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, commercial accessory business structures and any other
structures associated with a residential use.
      (5)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
and referred to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to compliance with all
supplementary local, state and federal permit approvals and in addition to the
following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or may be detached from the principal residence. The size of an
accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from the principal
residence, shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required   
         e.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or segregated
in ownership from the principal use structure.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory dwelling unit, if
lot coverage can be met for the accessory unit and the primary residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according to all
applicable state and federal regulations and local building code requirements,
including federal floodplain elevation regulations if applicable.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal use structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Planning Department, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business activity.
      (6)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use conducted
by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the principal
residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the site.
         f.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from any front property line and a minimum of 10 feet from any side or
rear property line. The setbacks found in subsection (d) of this district shall
not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
         The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional village
business including, but not limited to:
         a.   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
         b.   Retail/wholesale shops:
            1.   Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
            2.   Apparel.
            3.   Artist and art supplies.
            4.   Bait and tackle supplies.
            5.   Beehives.
            6.   Books.
            7.   Camera and photo supplies.
            8.   Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.   
            9.   Florist.
            10.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
            11.   Gifts and imports.
            12.   Hobby goods.
            13.   Hunting and fishing supplies.
            14.   Jewelry.
            15.   Leather goods.
            16.   Millinery shop.
            17.   Music shop.
            18.   Photography equipment sales and service.
            19.   Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
            20.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
            21.   Toys.
            22.   Upholstery.
            23.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
         c.   Service establishments:
            1.   Automobile detailing.
            2.   Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
            3.   Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
            4.   Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities according
to state regulations.
            5.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
            6.   Bricklayer.
            7.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
            8.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-working.
            9.   Catering business.
            10.   Computer and internet services.
            11.   Concrete finishing business and equipment.
            12.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
            13.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
            14.   Craft production and retail sales.
            15.   Electrician.
            16.   Electronics.
            17.   Excavating and equipment.
            18.   Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
            19.   Heating and air.
            20.   Historic home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
            21.   Home schooling.
            22.   House and boat moving business.
            23.   Landscape and lawn care.
            24.   Music lessons.
            25.   Outboard engine repair.
            26.   Painter and dry wall.
            27.   Photographer.
            28.   Plumber.
            29.   Potter, clay works, ceramics.
            30.   Pressure washing business.
            31.   Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
            32.   Roofer.
            33.   Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
            34.   Small engine repair.
            35.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
            36.   Taxidermist.
            37.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood sales.
            38.   Welding shop.
      (7)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (8)   Crab pots, crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial
fishing gear.
      (9)   Small childcare home - as defined in Section 22.2.
      (10)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (11)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (12)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Churches, cemeteries, schools and other public buildings.
      (2)   Church housing and recreation facilities that are under single
ownership of the church are permitted on or off site of the principal church
parcel. The site shall contain a minimum of 3 acres. Additional uses may
include primary and secondary educational facilities with both indoor and
outdoor activities. Church housing requirements shall be according to the
standards of Sec. 22.31. for group housing.
      (3)   Elder in-home care, up to four non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (4)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Must be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming – hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight guests (not a kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions that may be imposed by Board of
Commissioners.
      (5)   Public and/or private utilities (must provide vegetative buffer at
least 10 feet in height).
      (6)   Small childcare center, large childcare center - as defined in Sec.
22.2 and only associated with a church, school or other public building.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for detached single-family dwellings, bed and
breakfast homes, mobile homes and all other uses:
      (1)    Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single-family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family
structure, accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivided and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.
         b.   Newly platted lots -- For those lots subdivided and recorded
after March 24, 2006:
            Single family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)    Minimum front yard: 25 feet
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot side yard setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots
adjacent to a street.
      (5)    Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth.
      (6)    Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)    Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (8)   Churches, schools, and other public buildings are exempt from the
10,000 square feet commercial building size.
   (e)   Non-conforming uses and non- conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (f)   Performance standards and other information shall apply to this
district: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district
   (g)   The sections contained in Article I, Article III, Article VII, Article
VIII and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to this
district.
NOTE: Existing commercial business use allowed to continue and not otherwise
permitted in this district: Dog kennel in operation on premises at 104 Old
Wharf Road is a breeding kennel for Bichons Frise puppies and West Hyland white
terriers up to 25 pounds. The business use shall continue to operate in the VR
district under the requirements of Section
22-27.18 for non-conforming uses and structures found in this district.
(Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; amended 2-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-
2023)
SECTION 22-27.8 - WATERFRONT RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT 1 (WR-1)
   Waterfront properties that lie along the Wanchese Canal, waterway
shorelines, creeks and canals, including properties surrounded by creeks and
sound waters.
   (a)   Scope and intent: The intent of this Wanchese neighborhood waterfront
district is to preserve the traditional family-fishing village with a
neighborhood of mixed uses that include more intense commercial business
occupations permitted as a commercial accessory business use to the primary
residential use of a waterfront lot or parcel. Furthermore, the district will
accommodate future development of accessory commercial and residential uses,
including mobile homes, in a coastal village setting. Development of this
district is sensitive to any environmental conditions and limitations
characterizing much of the lands that lie along the Wanchese Canal and Broad
Creek. The property owners in the community desire the continuation of such
land uses that complement a village setting with a pleasant environment that is
comfortable, healthy, and safe for those that live there.
      The purpose of this district is to allow for the continuation of goods
and services associated with a coastal village location and water dependent
activities. The uses in this district furnish a broad range of services and
commodities for the entire community and seasonal visitors while retaining the
charm of a village atmosphere. The goal of the community is to maintain and
preserve the family-oriented business way of life, which gives the village its
attractiveness, both as a place to live and a place to visit.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in
existence on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and
approval by the Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning
regulations. Construction of additional principal use structures at existing
business sites that would require a special use permit if not already
established prior to March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the
special use permit process.
      The following uses shall be permitted by right and any use not permitted
herein shall be deemed prohibited:   
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings on individual lots.
      (2)   Single-family mobile homes located on individual lots, provided:
         a.   Compliance with building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the requirements of the building inspector
regarding skirting materials and skirting area.
      (3)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (4)   Customary accessory uses associated with principal use, including
windmills not to exceed height limit of this district, garages, sheds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, commercial accessory business structures and any other
structure associated with a residential use.
      (5)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
and referred to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to compliance with all
supplementary local, state and federal permit approvals and in addition to the
following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or be detached from the principal residence. The size of an accessory
dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from, the principal residence
shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.   
         e.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or segregated
in ownership from the principal use structure.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory dwelling unit, if
lot coverage can be met for the accessory unit and the primary residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according to all
applicable state and federal regulations and local building code requirements,
including federal floodplain elevation regulations if applicable.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal use structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Planning Department, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business activity.
      (6)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use conducted
by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the principal
residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the site.
         f.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from any front property line and a minimum of 10 feet from any side or
rear property line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) of this district
shall not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
            The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional
village business including, but not limited to:
            1.   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
            2.    Retail/wholesale shops:
               a.    Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
               b.    Apparel.
               c.   Artist and art supplies.
               d.   Bait and tackle supplies.
               e.    Beehives.
               f.    Books.
               g.    Camera and photo supplies.
               h.    Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.    
               i.    Florist.
               j.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
               k.   Gifts and imports.
               l.    Hobby goods.
               m.    Hunting and fishing supplies.
               n.    Jewelry.
               o.    Leather goods.
               p.    Millinery shop.
               q.   Music shop.
               r.    Photography equipment sales and service.
               s.    Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
               t.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
               u.   Toys.
               v.    Upholstery.
               w.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
            3.   Service establishments:
               a.    Automobile detailing.
               b.    Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
               c.    Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
               d.    Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities
according to state regulations.
               e.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
               f.    Bricklayer.
               g.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
               h.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-working.
               i.    Catering business.
               j.    Computer and internet services.
               k.    Concrete finishing business and equipment.
               l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
               m.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
               n.   Craft production and retail sales.
               o.    Electrician.
               p.    Electronics.
               q.    Excavating and equipment.
               r.    Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
               s.    Heating and air.
               t.    Historic home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
               u.   Home schooling.
               v.   House and boat moving business.
               w.    Landscape and lawn care.
               x.   Music lessons.
               y.    Outboard engine repair.
               z.    Painter and dry wall.
               aa.    Photographer.
               bb.    Plumber.
               cc.    Potter, clay works, ceramics.
               dd.    Pressure washing business.
               ee.    Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
               ff.    Roofer.
               gg.    Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
               hh.   Small engine repair.
               ii.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
               jj.    Taxidermist.
               kk.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood
sales.
               ll.    Welding shop.
            4.   Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated with
principal use:
               a.    Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and
wholesale markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
               b.   Boat dockage of 10 slips or less.
               c.   Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
               d.    Boathouses and sheds.
               e.   Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
               f.    Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
               g.    Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial
accessory use.
               h.    Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other
outdoor activities.
      (7)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (8)   Aquaculture and associated activities related to fish farming as
regulated by the State of North Carolina.
      (9)   Small child care homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (10)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (11)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (12)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansions of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Churches, fire stations and other public buildings.
      (2)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (3)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming - hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight guests (not a kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (4)   Private and public utilities (shall provide vegetative buffer at
least 10 feet in height).
      (5)   Small childcare center, large childcare center - as defined in Sec.
22.2 and only associated with a church, school or other public building.
      (6)   Retail garden shops and landscaping businesses may be permitted
subject to the requirements of this chapter and provided that the following
minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Storage of mulch material may be allowed for retail sale only.
Storage “stockpiles” shall not exceed 6 feet in height and no more than 3
stockpiles are allowed for each site. Industrial production of mulch is not
permitted.
         b.   One accessory greenhouse for storage and outdoor protection of
the plants is permitted. Greenhouse is not to be used for wholesale growing of
plants.
         c.   Associated equipment used by the landscape business such as
trailers, lawn mowers, single-axle trucks and tractors may be stored on the
site. This shall not include draglines, bulldozers, backhoes or other heavy
industrial equipment.
         d.   Storage areas of mulch and equipment shall be buffered with
fencing.
         e.   Outdoor display and storage of plants, bags of soil, mulch,
fertilizer, landscaping stone, landscape timbers, yard ornaments, and the like
shall not restrict parking areas. Bags of soil, mulch, and the like shall be
stacked in an orderly manner.
         f.   Bulk irrigation piping shall be stored indoors.
         g.   Other conditions as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   Spoil sites for maintenance dredging.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family
structure, accessory dwelling unit, and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivided and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.b)
         b.   Newly platted lots -- For those lots subdivided and recorded
after March 24, 2006:
            Single family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)    Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for commercial uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation or fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet excluding
decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Churches, fire stations, public
buildings and schools are excluded from this building size limitation.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non- conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Article I, Article III, Article VII, Article
VIII and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to this
district. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; Amended 2- 20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 5-17-
2023)
SECTION 22-27.9 - BAUMTOWN TRADITIONAL ZONING DISTRICT (BT)
   Baumtown Road.
   (a)   Scope and intent: The Baumtown Traditional Zoning District is bound on
the north and south by Baumtown Road, and a portion of the lands that lie along
Highway 345 at Baumtown Road. The district is established to recognize and
preserve the traditional family-fishing village lifestyle, whereby a property
owner or family member conducts water-related or non-water related commercial
accessory business on a lot or parcel in conjunction with the principal
residential use. Moreover, the district provides space for diverse types of
agricultural farming and related activities in a quiet area with low vehicular
traffic flow. Furthermore, the district is designed to promote and accommodate
such future development that is sensitive to any environmental conditions in
close proximity of the Dare County well field sites. Land uses in the district
provide for a compatible, harmonious and orderly business relationship as a way
of life, which gives the village its attractiveness, both as a place to live
and a place to visit.
      The purpose of this district is to allow for the continuation of goods
and services associated with a coastal village location that furnishes a broad
range of services and commodities to meet the needs of the local residents, the
entire community, and seasonal visitors while retaining the charm of a quaint
fishing village.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansions of uses in
existence on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and
approval by the Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning
regulations. Construction of additional principal use structures at existing
business sites that would require a special use permit if not already
established prior to March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the
special use permit process.
      The following uses shall be permitted by right and any use not permitted
herein shall be deemed prohibited:   
      (1)   Detached single-family dwellings on individual lots.
      (2)   Single-family mobile homes located on individual lots, provided
         a.   Compliance with building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the requirements of the building inspector
regarding skirting materials and skirting area.
      (3)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (4)   Small child care home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (5)   Customary accessory uses associated with principal use, including
windmills not to exceed height limit of this district, garages, sheds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, commercial accessory business structures and any other
structure associated with a residential use.
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
and referred to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to compliance with all
supplementary local, state and federal permit approvals and in addition to the
following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or be detached from the principal residence. The size of an accessory
dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from, the principal residence
shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.
         e.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or segregated
in ownership from the principal use structure.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory dwelling unit, if
lot coverage can be met for the accessory unit and the primary residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according to all
applicable state and federal regulations and local building code requirements,
including federal floodplain elevation regulations if applicable.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal use structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Planning Department, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business activity.
      (7)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use conducted
by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the principal
residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the site.
         f.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from any front property line and a minimum of 10 feet from any side or
rear property line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) of this district
shall not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
      The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional village
business including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
      (2)   Retail/wholesale shops:
         a.   Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
         b.   Apparel.
         c.   Artist and art supplies.
         d.   Bait and tackle supplies.
         e.   Beehives.
         f.   Books.
         g.   Camera and photo supplies.
         h.   Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.   
         i.   Florist.
         j.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
         k.   Gifts and imports.
         l.   Hobby goods.
         m.   Hunting and fishing supplies.
         n.   Jewelry.
         o.   Leather goods.
         p.   Millinery shop.
         q.   Music shop.
         r.   Photography equipment sales and service.
         s.   Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
         t.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
         u.   Toys.
         v.   Upholstery.
         w.   Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
      (3)   Service establishments:
         a.   Automobile detailing.
         b.   Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
         c.   Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
         d.   Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities according to
state regulations.
         e.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
         f.   Bricklayer.
         g.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
         h.    Carpenter/cabinet/woodworking.
         i.   Catering business.
         j.   Computer and internet services.
         k.   Concrete finishing business and equipment.
         l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing gear.
         m.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
         n.   Craft production and retail sales.
         o.   Electrician.
         p.   Electronics.
         q.   Excavating and equipment.
         r.   Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile installation.
         s.   Heating and air.
         t.   Historic home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
         u.   Home schooling.
         v.   House and boat moving business.
         w.   Landscape and lawn care.
         x.   Music lessons.
         y.   Outboard engine repair.
         z.   Painter and dry wall.
         aa.   Photographer.
         bb.   Plumber.
         cc.   Potter, clay works, ceramics.
         dd.   Pressure washing business.
         ee.   Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
         ff.   Roofer.
         gg.   Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
         hh.   Siding contractors.
         ii.   Small engine repair.
         jj.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
         kk.   Taxidermist.
         ll.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood sales.
         mm.   Welding shop.
      (4)   Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated with
principal use:
         a.   Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and wholesale
markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
         b.   Boat dockage of 10 slips or less.
         c.   Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
         d.   Boathouses and sheds.
         e.   Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
         f.   Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
         g.   Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial accessory
use.
         h.   Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other outdoor
activities.
      (8)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (9)   Aquaculture and associated activities related to fish farming as
regulated by the State of North Carolina.
      (10)    Nursery/greenhouse/tree/shrub farms and associated activities
with buffered storage areas.
      (11)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (12)   County owned and leased facilities
      (13)   Heritage gardens – Designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansions of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Churches, cemeteries, schools and other public buildings.
      (2)   Animal rehabilitation home center (required permits from North
Carolina Wildlife Resources).
      (3)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (4)   Fishing and hunting club, horse ranch including amenities such as
clubhouse facility with overnight lodging or guest quarters, swimming pools,
storage buildings, piers docks, private beach and boat launching subject to
other requirements of the chapter including Section
22-31 as may be applicable and provided the following minimum requirements are
met:
         a.   Overnight guest facilities – see density requirements for hotels,
motels, and seasonal lodging.
         b.   Number of rooms in lodging facility – see density requirements
for hotel, motel, and seasonal lodging.
         c.   Individual guest quarters – as calculated for group housing
development projects.
         d.   Prohibit mooring or permanent floating homes and other permanent
floating structures as defined in 15A NCAC 7M00602 in the surrounding public
trust waters of Dare County.
         e.   Other reasonable conditions that may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (5)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming - hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight occupancy (not a
kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (6)   Private and public utilities (shall provide vegetative buffer at
least 10 feet in height).
      (7)   Small childcare center, large childcare center - As defined in Sec.
22.2 and only associated with a church, school or other public building.
      (8)   Spoil sites for maintenance dredging.
      (9)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for all residential uses:
      (1)    Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family
structure, accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivided and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.
         b.   Newly platted lots - For those lots subdivided and recorded after
March 24, 2006:
            Single family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)    Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth. Zero line
setback for waterfront lots.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for individual commercial use on separate lot
or parcel that is not in conjunction with the principal residential use:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation or fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded, with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet excluding
decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Churches, fire stations, public
buildings and schools are excluded from this building size limitation.
      (8)    Density limitations for motels, hotels, and similar seasonal
lodging structures:
         a.   Structures on a lot or tract that has no soils classified as
wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 10 rental rooms
per acre.
         b.   Structures on a lot or tract that has between .01% and 19.9% of
its soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or section 404 jurisdictional
soils: 8 rental rooms per acre.
         c.   Structures on a lot or tract that has more than 20% of its soils
classified as wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 6
rental rooms per acre.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non-conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Article I, Article III, Article VII, Article
VIII, and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to this
district. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; amended 2-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.10 - RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS ZONING DISTRICT 1 (RB)
   Davis Landing, Mosley Lane and a portion of Pond Road and E. R. Daniels
Road.
   (a)   Intent: The intent of the Residential Business Zoning District is to
recognize and preserve commercial occupations that exist in the Village of
Wanchese and to establish land uses that allow for the protection of the
family-fishing coastal village. The Residential Business District encourages
commercial services whereby the owner resides on the property and performs such
services. Land uses included in this district also provide for a number of less
intensive commercial services on individual parcels that are not in conjunction
with the principal use whereby the land owner resides off premises. The maximum
gross commercial building size shall not exceed 10,000 square feet.
Furthermore, the district provides for a mixed use of single-family homes,
mobile homes on individual lots, and group housing projects with a maximum
density of one dwelling unit for every 20,000 square feet.
      The district will allow for the continuation of goods and services that
provide a limited range of services that includes water-dependent activities
and commodities to meet the needs of the local residents, the community, and
seasonal visitors. The goal of the community is to maintain and preserve the
family-oriented business way of life, which gives the village its
attractiveness, both as a place to live and a place to visit.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in
existence on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and
approval by the Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning
regulations. Construction of additional principal use structures at existing
business sites that would require a special use permit if not already
established prior to March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the
special use permit process. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed
prohibited.
      (1)   Commercial uses by right and no other uses by right:
         a.   Antique Store.
         b.   Box making operations.
         c.   Builders’ and contractors’ offices, supplies and storage areas,
including construction materials, prefabricated materials related to building
and the septic tank industry.
         d.   Commercial fishing net storage, commercial fishing gear, building
and repair services.
         e.   Crab shedding operations.
         f.   Engine repair and maintenance to all commercial vehicles and
vessels.
         g.   Food service, coffee shop, bakery.
         h.   Furniture sales, display and repair.
         i.   Gift shop, including imports and shells.
         j.   Horse boarding and equestrian associated activities.
         k.   Machine shop services.
         l.   Seafood retail and wholesale.
         m.   Welding shop and steel fabrication.
         n.   Single family dwelling unit in conjunction with a commercial
business located on the property (1,200 square feet either behind or above the
business).
      (2)   Detached single-family dwellings on individual lots.
      (3)   Single-family mobile homes located on individual lots, provided:
         a.   Compliance with building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the requirements of the building inspector
regarding skirting materials and skirting area.
      (4)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (5)   Duplexes.
      (6)   Customary accessory uses associated with principal use, including
windmills not to exceed height limit of this district, garages, sheds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, commercial accessory business structures and any other
structure associated with a residential use.
      (7)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
and referred to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to compliance with all
supplementary local, state and federal permit approvals and in addition to the
following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or be detached from the principal residence. The size of an accessory
dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from, the principal residence
shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.   
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.   
         e.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or segregated
in ownership from the principal use structure.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory dwelling unit, if
lot coverage can be met for the accessory unit and the primary residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according to all
applicable state and federal regulations and local building code requirements,
including federal floodplain elevation regulations if applicable.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal use structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Planning Department, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business activity.
         k.   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use
conducted by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the
principal residence provided the following conditions are met:
            1.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
            2.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
            3.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
            4.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36
square feet, may be posted on the property.
            5.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the
site.
            6.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative
buffer shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In
some instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
            7.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is
contiguous to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land
may be used as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
            8.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of
15 feet from any front property line and a minimum of 10 feet from any side or
rear property line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) of this district
shall not apply.
            9.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
               The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional
village business including, but not limited to:
               a.    Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
               b.    Retail/wholesale shops:
                  1.    Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
                  2.    Apparel.
                  3.    Artist and art supplies.
                  4.    Bait and tackle supplies.
                  5.    Beehives.
                  6.    Books.
                  7.    Camera and photo supplies.
                  8.    Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.
                  9.    Florist.
                  10.    Fruit and vegetable stand.
                  11.    Gifts and imports.
                  12.    Hobby goods.
                  13.    Hunting and fishing supplies.
                  14.    Jewelry.
                  15.    Leather goods.
                  16.    Millinery shop.
                  17.    Music shop.
                  18.    Photography equipment sales and service.
                  19.    Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
                  20.    Tack and equestrian associated sales.
                  21.    Toys.
                  22.    Upholstery.
                  23.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
               c.    Service establishments:
                  1.    Automobile detailing.
                  2.    Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
                  3.    Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
                  4.    Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities
according to state regulations.
                  5.    Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat
size limited to 36 ft.).
                  6.    Bricklayer.
                  7.    Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
                  8.    Carpenter/cabinet/woodworking.
                  9.    Catering business.
                  10.    Computer and internet services.
                  11.    Concrete finishing business and equipment.
                  12.    Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial
fishing gear.
                  13.    Crab shedders and associated operations.
                  14.    Craft production and retail sales.
                  15.    Electrician.
                  16.    Electronics.
                  17.    Excavating and equipment.
                  18.    Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
                  19.    Heating and air.
                  20.    Historic home place tours and interpretation of
village lifestyle.
                  21.    Home schooling.
                  22.    House and boat moving business.
                  23.    Landscape and lawn care.
                  24.    Music lessons.
                  25.    Outboard engine repair.
                  26.    Painter and dry wall.
                  27.    Photographer.
                  28.    Plumber.
                  29.    Potter, clay works, ceramics.
                  30.    Pressure washing business.
                  31.    Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
                  32.    Roofer.
                  33.    Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
                  34.    Small engine repair.
                  35.    Small trucking business – parking business truck on
site.
                  36.    Taxidermist.
                  37.    Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood
sales.
                  38.    Welding shop.
               d.    Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated
with principal use:
                  1.    Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and
wholesale markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
                  2.    Boat dockage of 10 slips or less.
                  3.    Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area
and limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
                  4.    Boathouses and sheds.
                  5.    Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
                  6.    Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
                  7.    Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial
accessory use.
                  8.    Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other
outdoor activities.
      (9)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (10)   Aquaculture and associated activities related to fish farming as
regulated by the State of North Carolina.
      (11)   Small child care homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (12)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (13)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (14)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
      (15)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Automotive repair service center, storage, auto towing (new
businesses) provided the following requirements are met:
         a.   Towing and temporary storage in conjunction with on-site repairs.
         b.   Garage bays limited to 6 bays.
         c.   Total number of employees shall not exceed 8.
         d.   Designated hours of operation to be determined during CUP review.
         e.   Owners may prefer not to have on-site office open to public.
         f.   Other requirements as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (2)   Cemeteries, schools, and other public buildings.
      (3)   Communication tower, only associated with a marina or contractor’s
office.
      (4)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (5)   Group housing projects according to Section
22-31 plus the following requirements:
         a.   Density shall not exceed 1 unit per 20,000 square feet of soils
not classified as coastal wetlands; duplex home 25,000 square feet of soils not
classified as coastal wetlands provided this area may be reduced to 20,000
square feet if duplex is served by a central water supply.
         b.   Every dwelling shall be accessible to emergency service vehicles
and Dare County Public Works vehicles.
         c.   Turning lane into project shall be provided with additional
setback buffer along state-maintained rights-of-way into the residential
neighborhoods.
         d.   Building height limit of 40 feet as defined in this section.
         e.   No mooring of permanent floating homes and other permanent
floating structures as defined in 15A NCAC 7M00602 in the surrounding public
trust waters of Dare County.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units are not allowed in sites developed as a
group housing project.
         g.   A traditional village business use is not allowed in sites
developed as a group housing project.
         h.   Other requirements that may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (6)   Marinas, boat dockage, and boat rentals for up to 10 boats provided
the following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide an adequate site for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56.
         b.   Food and beverage service and/or a restaurant may be associated
with a marina.
         c.   Fuel pumps shall not be located within 50 feet of a residential
zoning district or residential use and that such fuel pumps shall be setback a
minimum of 25 feet from all rights-of-way.
         d.   One 10’ x 20’ parking space shall be provided for each wet boat
slip.
         e.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         f.   Subject to the other requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and
other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (7)   Restaurants provided the minimum following conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide an adequate site for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56. In addition, a fence or vegetative buffer shall be provided adjacent to
residential use or residential zoning district.
         b.   The restaurant shall not feature drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle or drive-up wait
service whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         c.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor and outdoor
seating.
         d.   On-site parking shall be according to Section
22-56 – one 10’ x 20’ parking space for every 3 customer seats plus one 10’ x
20’ space for every 3 employees and loading space.
         e.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         f.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (8)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming - hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight pet guests (not a
kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (9)   Private and public utilities (shall provide vegetative buffer at
least 10 feet in height).
      (10)   Schools for sailing lessons and other marine-oriented outdoor
activities.
      (11)   Travel trailer parks according to the provisions of the Dare
County Travel Trailer Park Ordinance.
      (12)   Spoil sites for maintenance dredging.
      (13)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (14)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (15)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family
structure, accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivided and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.
         b.   Newly platted lots - For those lots subdivided and recorded after
March 24, 2006:
            Single-family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
            Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth. Zero line
setback for waterfront lots.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for individual commercial use located on
separate lot or parcel that is not in conjunction with the principal
residential use:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation or fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet excluding
decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Churches, fire stations, public
buildings and schools are excluded from this building size limitation.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non-conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Articles I, Article III, Article VII,
Article VIII, and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to
this district. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; amended 2-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.11 - NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT 1 (NC)
   Boundaries include the intersection of Pugh Road at Old Wharf Road and
includes parcels on Old Wharf Road south to the intersection at Hooker Road and
some parcels on the east side of Hooker Road.
   (a)   Intent: The Neighborhood Commercial Zoning District is established to
preserve and protect the traditional family-fishing village lifestyle and to
accommodate a mix of “individual commercial uses” on separate lots or parcels
and moderate residential uses with less intensive accessory business use
conducted by the property owner on site of the principal residence. An on-site
residential business is identified as a “traditional village business” that has
long been associated with the coastal village atmosphere.
      Furthermore, the district is designed to encourage individual commercial
uses that compliment the area by establishing a maximum gross building size of
10,000 square feet and to allow for the continuation of such land uses that
compliment the village setting with a pleasant environment that is comfortable,
healthy and safe for those that live there.
      The district will allow for the continuation of goods and services that
provide a broad range of services to better serve the entire community and
seasonal visitors. The goal of the village community is to maintain and
preserve the family oriented business way of life, which gives the village its
attractiveness, both as a place to live and a place to visit.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in
existence on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and
approval by the Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning
regulations. Construction of additional principal use structures at existing
business sites that would require a special use permit if not already
established prior to March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the
special use permit process.
      The following uses and no other uses shall be permitted by right. Any use
not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited. Land uses in this district are
not necessarily associated with a principal residential use, but also include
independent commercial uses:
      (1)   Commercial uses.   
         a.   Antiques and used furniture.
         b.   Art, art supplies, and equipment.
         c.   Bakery, cakes, and baked goods with seating (retail/wholesale).
         d.   Bait and tackle shop.
         e.   Beauty and barbershop, including tanning facilities.
         f.   Boarding horses and equestrian associated uses - North Carolina
regulations.
         g.   Cabinet making and woodworking shop with inside buffered storage
area.
         h.   Ceramics.
         i.   Coffee House/Tea Room.
         j.   Furniture sales, display and repair.
         k.   Hunting and fishing supplies.
         l.   Gift shop and imports.
         m.   Florist shop.
         n.    Jewelry.
         o.   Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
         p.   Roofing business, materials, sales and storage.
         q.   Seafood sales.
         r.   Sewing shop, tailor, millinery, needle works, dry goods and
supplies.
         s.   Stain glass; glassworks production, retail/wholesale, repair.
         t.   Stain glass educational classes.
         u.   Tack shop.
         v.   Upholstery shop, sales and service, fabrics.
      (2)   Single-family dwelling unit in conjunction with commercial business
may be located above or in the rear of commercial building, attached or
detached, provided that all federal, state, and local regulations are met. No
additional parking shall be required for the residential use. The residential
use shall not exceed 1,200 square feet of building footprint area.
      (3)   Detached single-family dwellings on individual lots or parcels.
      (4)   Single-family mobile homes located on individual lots, provided:
         a.   Compliance with building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the requirements of the building inspector
regarding skirting materials and skirting area.
      (5)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Duplexes.
      (7)   Customary accessory uses associated with principal use, including
windmills not to exceed height limit of this district, garages, sheds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, commercial accessory business structures and any other
structure associated with a residential use.
      (8)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
and referred to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to compliance with all
supplementary local, state and federal permit approvals and in addition to the
following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or be detached from the principal residence. The size of an accessory
dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from, the principal residence
shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.   
         e.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or segregated
in ownership from the principal use structure.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory dwelling unit, if
lot coverage can be met for the accessory unit and the primary residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according to all
applicable state and federal regulations and local building code requirements,
including federal floodplain elevation regulations if applicable.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal use structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Planning Department, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business activity.
      (9)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use conducted
by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the principal
residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the site.
         f.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from the front property line and a minimum of 10 feet from any side or
rear property line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) of this district
shall not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
            The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional
village business including, but not limited to:
            1.   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
            2.    Retail/wholesale shops:
               a.    Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
               b.    Apparel.
               c.   Artist and art supplies.
               d.   Bait and tackle supplies.
               e.    Beehives.
               f.    Books.
               g.    Camera and photo supplies.
               h.    Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.
               i.    Florist.
               j.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
               k.   Gifts and imports.
               l.    Hobby goods.
               m.    Hunting and fishing supplies.
               n.    Jewelry.
               o.    Leather goods.
               p.    Millinery shop.
               q.   Music shop.
               r.    Photography equipment sales and service.
               s.    Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
               t.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
               u.   Toys.
               v.    Upholstery.
               w.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
            3.   Service establishments:
               a.    Automobile detailing.
               b.    Barber and beauty shops
including tanning and exercise facilities.
               c.    Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
               d.    Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities
according to state regulations.
               e.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
               f.    Bricklayer.
               g.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
               h.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-working.
               i.    Catering business.
               j.    Computer and internet services.
               k.    Concrete finishing business and equipment.
               l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
               m.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
               n.   Craft production and retail sales.
               o.    Electrician.
               p.    Electronics.
               q.    Excavating and equipment.
               r.    Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
               s.    Heating and air.
               t.    Historic home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
               u.   Home schooling.
               v.   House and boat moving business.
               w.    Landscape and lawn care.
               x.   Music lessons.
               y.    Outboard engine repair.
               z.    Painter and dry wall.
               aa.    Photographer.
               bb.    Plumber.
               cc.    Potter, clay works, ceramics.
               dd.    Pressure washing business.
               ee.    Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
               ff.    Roofer.
               gg.    Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
               hh.   Small engine repair.
               ii.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
               jj.    Taxidermist.
               kk.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood
sales.
               ll.    Welding shop.
            4.   Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated with
principal use:
               a.    Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and
wholesale markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
               b.   Boat dockage of 10 slips or less.
               c.   Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
               d.    Boathouses and sheds.
               e.   Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
               f.    Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
               g.    Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial
accessory use.
               h.    Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other
outdoor activities.
      (10)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (11)   Small child care homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (12)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (13)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (14)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
      (15)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Boat building facilities not to exceed 75-foot boat length.
      (2)   Cemeteries, churches, fire stations and other public buildings.
      (3)   Communication tower, only associated with an on-site business.
      (4)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (5)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming – hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight pet guests (not a
kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (6)   Public and private utilities (shall provide a vegetative buffer at
least 10 feet in height).
      (7)   Restaurants, food services, cafes provided the minimum following
conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56. In addition, a fence or vegetative buffer shall be provided adjacent to
residential use or residential zoning district.
         b.   The restaurant shall not feature drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle or drive-up wait
service whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         c.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor and outdoor
seating.
         d.   On-site parking shall be according to Section
22-56 – one 10’ x 20’ parking space for every 3 customer seats plus one 10’ x
20’ space for every 3 employees and loading space.
         e.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         f.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (8)   Small childcare center, large childcare center as defined in
Section
22-2 and only associated with a church, school or other public building.
      (9)   Village center complex: a mixed use development situated on single
parcel of land under single ownership whereby an existing commercial building,
or new structure, may be developed and limited to retail sales units on the
lower level of the structure with residential units on upper level. Additional
residential units may be situated on the site. The following minimum
requirements shall be met:
         a.   Village center complex site must contain a minimum of three
acres.
         b.   Approval of all supplementary local, state and federal permits.
Site must be adequate for siting commercial structure, parking, loading and
maneuvering space as required by Article VII. Two 10’ x 20’ parking spaces per
residential use shall be provided. Overflow parking, if applicable, shall be
directed to off peak use of commercial spaces.
         c.   Site screening - a vegetative or fence buffer not to exceed ten
feet in height. A 10-foot wide setback shall be required where the site abuts a
residential use or zone (not subject to 20-foot dimensional requirements in D.1
– Dimensional requirements).
         d.   Food service shall be limited to packaged items, such as snacks,
drinks and ice cream. Food service may be located outside the building on site
as a refreshment pavilion to serve patrons in the village complex. Food service
shall be exempt from parking as required for restaurants.
      (10)   Spoil sites for maintenance dredging.
      (11)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (12)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (13)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family
structure, accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivide and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.
         b.   Newly platted lots -- For those lots subdivided and recorded
after March 24, 2006:
            Single-family lots:
               15,0000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
            Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth. Zero line
setback for waterfront lots.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for individual commercial use on separate lot
or parcel that is not in conjunction with principal residential use:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation or fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet excluding
decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Churches, fire stations, public
buildings and schools are excluded from this building size limitation.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non-conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Articles I, Article III, Article VII,
Article VIII, and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to
this district. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; amended 2-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.12 - HISTORIC MILL LANDING MARINE DISTRICT (HML)
South end of the village on SR 345 (Mill Landing Road) and along the boundaries
of Broad Creek, Wanchese Harbor, Mill Landing Creek, and portions of Mill
Landing Road and Thicket Lump Drive and along other waterways, shorelines,
creeks and canals including properties identified on a map of the Sand Island.
   (a)   Scope and intent: The Historic Mill Landing Marine District (HML) is
established to protect and preserve the historic pattern of the village and
ensure the preservation of unique features and structures that have long been
associated with the Mill Landing waterfront location. Because of the historical
background of the fishing village and the community's strong relationship to
water resource activities in a coastal village location, the district promotes
constructive improvements to existing businesses to allow for the continuation
of those harbor activities that serve people and industry and strengthen the
economic base of Dare County.
      The district provides for development of new services related to and that
serve marine interest in a location that is sensitive to environmental
conditions and limitations characterizing much of the lands within the
district. The maximum gross building size is 10,000 square feet for a new
commercial structure, thereby allowing for future compatible land uses such as
hotels and motels.
      The district provides for residential housing that includes single-family
homes, duplex dwellings, and mobile homes. This district allows and encourages
wastewater treatment systems, other than conventional septic tank and
drainfield systems, that may be authorized by the Dare County Environmental
Health Department. However, this does not include centralized urban-style
wastewater collection and treatment systems. The goal is to protect the quality
of the community’s surface water and its ground water quality, particularly
with the close proximity of this district to Board Creek, Mill Landing Creek,
and the Wanchese Harbor.
      Another goal of the community is to protect the fishing village
atmosphere and family-oriented business way of life that gives the village its
attractiveness, both as a place to live and a place to visit.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in
existence on shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the Dare
County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following uses and no other uses shall be permitted by right and are
not necessarily associated with a principal residential use. Any use not
permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial, such as banking.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical.
      (2)   Commercial uses:
         a.   Boat yards, repair.
         b.   Boat and motor display, sales and service.
         c.   Boats - dry dock storage, fenced and not to exceed 50 feet
measured from the finished elevation.
         d.   Boarding of horses, equestrian related uses and activities, tack
shop.
         e.   Box making facilities.
         f.   Cabinet making – marine related only.
         g.   Cold storage, ice manufacturing.
         h.   Container storage space for boat gear on docks in conjunction
with marina or boat docks.
         i.   Contractors’ offices, supplies and services.
         j.   Commercial fishing nets, sales, service and storage.
         k.   Crab shedding operations and associated equipment.
         l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing gear.
         m.   Dry cleaning, laundromats.
         n.   Existing docking facilities, private and public.
         o.   Electrical equipment, sales and service.
         p.   Electronic equipment, sales and service.
         q.   Fish houses, including packing, processing, seafood sales,
storage and loading and unloading trawlers.
         r.   Fishing - party fishing excursions and associated services.
         s.   Hardware supplies.
         t.   Heating and air, sales, service.
         u.   Food services - mobile and carry out (if seating is provided -
see CUP restaurants).
         v.   Lodging – tourist home as defined in Section
22-2.
         w.   Marine supplies, including rigging, netting, and the like.
         x.   Plumbing supplies, sales and service.
         y.   Private docks and commercial docks (new).
         z.   Retail shops, including, but not limited to gifts and imports.
         aa.   Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
         bb.   Seafood processing and seafood market sales – wholesale /retail.
         cc.   Schools, commercial limited to sailing/marine oriented outdoor
lifestyle.
         dd.   Taxidermist.
         ee.   Vessel refueling.
         ff.   Village general store without fuel pumps and not associated with
marina.
         gg.   Upholstery.
         hh.   Welding shop and steel fabrication.
         ii.   Hotel or Motels – administrative review for one principal
building per site; 2 or more buildings require conditional use permit for group
development.
      (3)   Single-family dwelling unit in conjunction with commercial business
may be located above or in the rear of commercial building, attached or
detached provided that all federal, state, and local regulations are met. No
additional parking shall be required for the residential use. The residential
use shall not exceed 1,200 square feet of building footprint area.
      (4)   Detached single-family dwellings on individual lots or parcels.
      (5)   Single-family mobile homes located on individual lots, provided:
         a.   Compliance with building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the requirements of the building inspector
regarding skirting materials and skirting area.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (7)   Duplexes.
      (8)   Customary accessory uses associated with principal use, including
windmills not to exceed height limit of this district, garages, sheds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, commercial accessory business structures and any other
structure associated with a residential use.
      (9)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
and referred to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to compliance with all
supplementary local, state and federal permit approvals and in addition to the
following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or be detached from the principal residence. The size of an accessory
dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from, the principal residence
shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.   
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.   
         e.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or segregated
in ownership from the principal use structure.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory dwelling unit, if
lot coverage can be met for the accessory unit and the primary residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according tot
all applicable state and federal regulations and local building code
requirements, including federal floodplain elevation regulations if applicable.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal use structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Planning Department, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business activity.
      (10)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use
conducted by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the
principal residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the site.
         f.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from the front property line and a minimum of 10 feet from any side or
rear property line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) of this district
shall not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
            The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional
village business including, but not limited to:
            1.   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
            2.    Retail/wholesale shops:
               a.    Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
               b.    Apparel.
               c.   Artist and art supplies.
               d.   Bait and tackle supplies.
               e.    Beehives.
               f.    Books.
               g.    Camera and photo supplies.
               h.    Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.    
               i.    Florist.
               j.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
               k.   Gifts and imports.
               l.    Hobby goods.
               m.    Hunting and fishing supplies.
               n.    Jewelry.
               o.    Leather goods.
               p.    Millinery shop.
               q.   Music shop.
               r.    Photography equipment sales and service.
               s.    Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
               t.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
               u.   Toys.
               v.    Upholstery.
               w.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
            3.   Service establishments:
               a.    Automobile detailing.
               b.    Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
               c.    Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
               d.    Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities
according to state regulations.
               e.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
               f.    Bricklayer.
               g.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
               h.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-
working.
               i.    Catering business .
               j.    Computer and internet services.
               k.    Concrete finishing business and equipment.
               l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
               m.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
               n.   Craft production and retail sales.
               o.    Electrician.
               p.    Electronics.
               q.    Excavating and equipment.
               r.    Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
               s.    Heating and air.
               t.    Historic home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
               u.   Home schooling.
               v.   House and boat moving business.
               w.    Landscape and lawn care.
               x.   Music lessons.
               y.    Outboard engine repair.
               z.    Painter and dry wall.
               aa.    Photographer.
               bb.    Plumber.
               cc.    Potter, clay works, ceramics.
               dd.    Pressure washing business.
               ee.    Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
               ff.    Roofer.
               gg.    Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
               hh.   Small engine repair.
               ii.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
               jj.    Taxidermist.
               kk.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood
sales.
               ll.    Welding shop.
            4.   Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated with
principal use:
               a.    Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and
wholesale markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
               b.   Boat dockage of 10 slips or less.
               c.   Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
               d.    Boathouses and sheds.
               e.   Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
               f.    Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
               g.    Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial
accessory use.
               h.    Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other
outdoor activities.
      (11)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (12)   Aquaculture and associated activities related to fish farming as
regulated by the State.
      (13)   Small child care homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (14)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (15)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (16)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
      (17)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Boat building facilities if constructed after date of adoption of
ordinance.
      (2)   Churches, fire stations, cemeteries and other public buildings.
      (3)   Communication tower only associated an on-site business.
      (4)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (5)   Fuel storage only associated with on-site business use (new storage
facilities).
      (6)   Group housing projects according to Section
22-31 plus the following requirements:
         a.   Density shall not exceed 1 unit per 20,000 square feet of soils
not classified as coastal wetlands; duplex home 25,000 square feet of soils not
classified as coastal wetlands provided this area may be reduced to 20,000
square feet if duplex is served by a central water supply.
         b.   Every dwelling shall be accessible to emergency service vehicles
and Dare County Public Works vehicles.
         c.   A turning lane into project shall be provided with additional
setback buffer along state-maintained rights-of-way into the residential
neighborhoods.
         d.   Building height limit of 40 feet as defined in this section.
         e.   No mooring of permanent floating homes and other permanent
floating structures as defined in 15A NCAC 7M00602 in the surrounding public
trust waters of Dare County.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units are not allowed in sites developed as a
group housing development.
         g.   A traditional village business use is not allowed in sites
developed as a group housing development.
         h.   Other requirements that may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (7)   Commercial group development projects (more than one principal
structure per parcel under single ownership) according to Section
22-31.
      (8)   Marinas, boat dockage, village marina store with fuel pumps, boat
rentals for fishing excursions, and other non-motorized boat rentals provided
the following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56.
         b.   Food and beverage service and/or a restaurant may be associated
with the marina.
         c.   All boat rentals, except for fishing excursion rentals, shall be
limited to non-motorized vessels and shall be limited to a total of 10 vessels
offered for rent.
         d.   Fuel pumps shall not be located within 50 feet of a residential
zoning district or residential use and that such fuel pumps shall be setback a
minimum of 25 feet from all rights-of-way.
         e.   One 10’ x 20’ parking space shall be provided for each wet boat
slip.
         f.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         g.   Subject to the other requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and
other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (9)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming – hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight pet guests (not a
kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (10)   Public and private utilities (shall provide a vegetative buffer at
least 10 feet in height).
      (11)   Restaurants on individual parcels or as an accessory use and
designed as part of a marina project provided the minimum following conditions
are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56. In addition, a fence or vegetative buffer shall be provided adjacent to
residential use or residential zoning district.
         b.   The restaurant shall not feature drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle or drive-up wait
service whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         c.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor and outdoor
seating.
         d.   On-site parking shall be according to Section
22-56 – one 10’ x 20’ parking space for every 3 customer seats plus one 10’ x
20’ space for every 3 employees and loading space.
         e.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         f.   Other reasonable conditions as may imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (12)   Fishing and hunting club, horse ranch including amenities such as
clubhouse facility with overnight lodging or guest quarters, swimming pools,
storage buildings, piers docks, private beach and boat launching subject to
other requirements of the chapter such as Section
22-31 as may be applicable provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Overnight guest facilities – see density requirements for hotels,
motels, and seasonal lodging.
         b.   Number of rooms in lodging facility – see density requirements
for hotel, motel, and seasonal lodging.
         c.   Individual guest quarters – as calculated for group housing
development projects.
         d.   Prohibit mooring or permanent floating homes and other permanent
floating structures as defined in 15A NCAC 7M00602 in the surrounding public
trust waters of Dare County.
         e.   Other reasonable conditions that may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (13)   Storage/warehousing and warehouse storage centers, including boat
trailers and long-term storage containers and mobile storage, provided the
following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Site shall be buffered with wooden opaque fencing not to exceed
10 feet in height and also provide sound and site screening as visual and sound
buffer to residential homes in and around area of warehouse storage site.
         b.   Outdoor lighting plan shall be submitted with a site plan.
         c.   Hours of operation shall be included as part of CUP review.
         d.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (14)   Village center complex: a mixed use development situated on single
parcel of land under single ownership whereby an existing commercial building,
or new structure, may be developed and limited to retail sales units on the
lower level of the structure with residential units on upper level. Additional
residential units may be situated on the site. The following minimum
requirements shall be met:
         a.   Village center complex site must contain a minimum of 3 acres.
         b.   Approval of all supplementary local, state and federal permits.
Site must be adequate for siting commercial structure, parking, loading and
maneuvering space as required by Article VII. Two 10’ x 20’ parking spaces per
residential use shall be provided. Overflow parking, if applicable, shall be
directed to off peak use of commercial spaces.
         c.   Site screening -- a vegetative or fence buffer not to exceed 10
feet in height. A 10-foot wide setback shall be required where the site abuts a
residential use or zone (not subject to 20-foot dimensional requirements in D.1
– Dimensional requirements).
         d.   Food service shall be limited to packaged items, such as snacks,
drinks and ice cream. Food service may be located outside the building on site
as a refreshment pavilion to serve patrons in the village complex. Food service
shall be exempt from parking as required for restaurants.
      (15)   Spoil sites for maintenance dredging.
      (16)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (17)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (18)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-
familystructure, accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use
structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivided and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.
         b.   Newly platted lots -- For those lots subdivided and recorded
after March 24, 2006:
            Single-family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
            Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth. Zero line
setback for waterfront lots.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for individual commercial use on separate lot
or parcel that is not in conjunction with the principal residential use:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation of fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure.
Chimneys, lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet excluding
decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Hotels, motels, churches, fire
stations, public buildings and schools are excluded from this building size
limitation.
      (8)   Density limitations for motels, hotels, and similar seasonal
lodging structures:
         a.   Structures on a lot or tract that has no soils classified as
wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 10 rental rooms
per acre.
         b.   Structures on a lot or tract that has between .01% and 19.9% of
its soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or section 404 jurisdictional
soils: 8 rental rooms per acre.
         c.   Structures on a lot or tract that has more than 20% of its soils
classified as wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 6
rental rooms per acre.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non-conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Articles I, Article III, Article VII,
Article VIII, and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to
this district. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; amended 2-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.13 - WANCHESE VILLAGE COMMERCIAL ZONING (WVC)
   Highway 345 at Baumtown Road – south along Highway 345 to Harbor Road and
The Lane.
   (a)   Scope and intent: The Wanchese Village Commercial District is
established to protect and preserve the traditional family-fishing village
lifestyle, whereby permitting land uses that will not change or overwhelm the
patterns of existing land uses within the village and the southern end of
Roanoke Island. The district allows for mixed uses combined with various
individual commercial services and small retail businesses that compliment the
area. The uses in the district provide alternative methods for implementing
community goals with character and orientation toward traditional village
business occupations whereby the property owner carries on a commercial
business on site of the residential premises.
      There is concern for the areas along Highway 345 that contain marginal
soils, a characteristic of much of the land that surrounds Broad Creek and the
Croatan Sound. Density in this district shall be limited to 20,000 square feet
and duplex lots limited to 25,000 square feet. The maximum gross building size
shall be 10,000 square feet.
      Purpose - Manage development in an effort to protect Dare County’s
surface water quality and ground water quality, particularly with the close
proximity to Broad Creek, Croatan Sound and the ten Dare County well field
sites. The well field sites are situated along Highway 345 between Baumtown
Road and Skyco and supply a large portion of for all of Dare County’s drinking
water.
      The district allows for the continuation of existing businesses that
provide a limited range of services and commodities to meet the needs of
locals, entire community, and seasonal visitors. The goal of the community is
to maintain and preserve the family-oriented business way of life, which give
the village its attractiveness, both as a place to live and a place to visit.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in
existence on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and
approval by the Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning
regulations. Construction of additional principal use structures at existing
business sites that would require a special use permit if not already
established prior to March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the
special use permit process.
      The following uses and no other uses shall be permitted by right. Any use
not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Primary retail/wholesale stores, including such uses as:
         a.   Antiques, furniture and home decor.
         b.   Bait and tackle.
         c.   Bakery and coffee shop.
         d.   Boarding of horses and equestrian associated activities, tack
shop.
         e.   Boat and motor repairs, sales, service and associated on site
equipment displays.
         f.   Candy.
         g.   Clothing.
         h.   Craft goods.
         i.   Dry goods.
         j.   Fishing and hunting supplies.
         k.   Florist.
         l.   Gifts, shells and imports.
         m.   Hardware.
         n.   Hobby goods.
         o.   Jewelry.
         p.   Leather goods.
         q.   Net and rope shop.
         r.   Notions.
         s.   Pharmacy.
         t.   Toys.
      (2)   Services establishments:
         a.   Banking institutions, contained in building - no drive thru
facilities.
         b.   Barber and beauty shops, including tanning facilities.
         c.   Boat repairs, sales, service and display and associated equipment
displays.
         d.   Dry cleaning/laundry pick-up stations, including laundromats.
         e.   Food market.
         f.   Post office substation.
         g.   Professional offices.
         h.   Radio, TV broadcasting and production studio.
         i.   Village general store.
         j.   Upholstery shop.
      (3)   Single-family dwelling in conjunction with commercial business may
be located above or in the rear of a commercial building, or a detached
structure, provided that all federal, state and local regulations are met.
Additional parking for the residential use shall not be needed.
      (4)   Detached single-family dwelling on individual lots or parcels.
      (5)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Mobile homes on individual lots, provided that:
         a.   Mobile home is placed on foundation and anchored according to the
building code for mobile homes in a hurricane area.
         b.   The requirements of the building inspector regarding skirting
material and skirting area.
      (7)   Duplexes.
      (8)   Small childcare homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (9)   Customary accessory uses associated with commercial or residential
principal use, including windmills, not to exceed height limit of this
district, garages, sheds, swimming pools and other accessory uses associated
with the commercial and or residential use.
      (10)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with residential use referred
to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to the following requirements:
         a.   A dwelling unit may be attached to the principal residence or may
be detached from the principal residence. The size of the accessory dwelling
unit, whether attached to or detached from principal residence, shall not to
exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the lot in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   Owner and/or family members shall occupy either the primary
residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.
         e.   Accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or otherwise
segregated in ownership from the primary residence.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory building unit,
provided that lot overage is met for the dwelling unit and the primary
residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according to all
applicable federal, state regulations and local building inspection
requirements. And, if applicable, compliance with federal flood plain elevation
standards.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Zoning Administrator, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business use.
      (11)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use
conducted by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the
principal residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to four spaces shall be provided on the
site.
         f.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from the front property line and a minimum of 10 feet from any side or
rear property line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) of this district
shall not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
            The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional
village business including, but not limited to:
            1.   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
            2.    Retail/wholesale shops:
               a.    Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
               b.    Apparel.
               c.   Artist and art supplies.
               d.   Bait and tackle supplies.
               e.    Beehives.
               f.    Books.
               g.    Camera and photo supplies.
               h.    Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.    
               i.    Florist.
               j.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
               k.   Gifts and imports.
               l.    Hobby goods.
               m.    Hunting and fishing supplies.
               n.    Jewelry.
               o.    Leather goods.
               p.    Millinery shop.
               q.   Music shop.
               r.    Photography equipment sales and service.
               s.    Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
               t.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
               u.   Toys.
               v.    Upholstery.
               w.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
            3.   Service establishments:
               a.    Automobile detailing.
               b.    Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
               c.    Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
               d.    Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities
according to state regulations.
               e.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
               f.    Bricklayer.
               g.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
               h.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-working.
               i.    Catering business.
               j.    Computer and internet services.
               k.    Concrete finishing business and equipment.
               l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
               m.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
               n.   Craft production and retail sales.
               o.    Electrician.
               p.    Electronics.
               q.    Excavating and equipment.
               r.    Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
               s.    Heating and air.
               t.    History home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
               u.   Home schooling.
               v.   House and boat moving business.
               w.    Landscape and lawn care.
               x.   Music lessons.
               y.    Outboard engine repair.
               z.    Painter and dry wall.
               aa.    Photographer.
               bb.    Plumber.
               cc.    Potter, clay works, ceramics.
               dd.    Pressure washing business.
               ee.    Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
               ff.    Roofer.
               gg.    Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
               hh.   Small engine repair.
               ii.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
               jj.    Taxidermist.
               kk.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood
sales.
               ll.    Welding shop.
            4.   Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated with
principal use:
               a.    Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and
wholesale markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
               b.   Boat dockage of ten slips or less.
               c.   Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
               d.   Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
               e.    Boathouses and sheds.
               f.   Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
               g.    Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
               h.    Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial
accessory use.
               i.    Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other
outdoor activities.
      (12)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (13)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (14)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (15)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
      (16)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Aquaculture and related activities associated with fish farming as
regulated by the State.
      (2)   Boat rentals – non-motorized boats.
      (3)   Cemeteries, churches, fire stations, and other public buildings.
      (4)   Communication tower only associated with an on-site business.
      (5)   Convalescent care home in conjunction with assisted living homes.
      (6)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (7)   Fishing and hunting club, horse ranch, including amenities such as
clubhouse facility, overnight lodging or guest quarters, swimming pools,
storage buildings, piers, docks, private beach and boat launching, subject to
the other requirements of this chapter including Section
22-31 for group development projects and provided the following minimum
requirements are met:
         a.   Overnight guest facilities – see density requirements for hotels,
motels, and seasonal lodging.
         b.   Number of rooms in lodging facility – see density requirements
for hotel, motel, and seasonal lodging.
         c.   Individual guest quarters – as calculated for group housing
development projects.
         d.   No mooring of permanent floating homes and other permanent
floating structures as defined in 15A NCAC 7M00602 in the surrounding public
trust waters of Dare County.
         e.   Other conditions as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (8)   Fuel pumps in conjunction with a food market having 8,000 square
feet or more under subsection (b)(2) of this section provided that no principal
or accessory building shall be located within 500 feet of any residential use
or residential zoning district and that any such fuel pumps shall be setback a
minimum of 25 feet from all rights-of-way.
         a.   The area directly below an open canopy may be illuminated and in
addition shall have a minimum foot-candle of 4 but shall not exceed a maximum
foot-candle of 10.
         b.   Parking spaces located directly beneath the canopy shall be in
accord with the parking standards (10’ x 20’).
      (9)   Marinas, boat dockage, village marina store with fuel pumps, boat
rentals for fishing excursions, and other non-motorized boat rentals provided
the following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56.
         b.   Food and beverage service and/or restaurant may be associated
with a marina.
         c.   All boat rentals, except for fishing excursion rentals, shall be
limited to non-motorized vessels and shall be limited to a total of 10 vessels
offered for rent.
         d.   Fuel pumps shall not be located within 50 feet of a residential
zoning district or residential use and that such fuel pumps shall be setback a
minimum of 25 feet from all rights-of-way
         e.   One 10’ x 20’ parking space shall be provided for each wet boat
slip.
         f.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         g.   Subject to the other requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and
other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (10)   Public and private utilities (shall provide a planted vegetative
buffer 10 feet in height).
      (11)   Private meeting and recreational facilities such as an event
center for weddings and group parties, including private boat launching areas,
tennis courts, picnic areas, private swimming pools and beaches, whereby
catering is an integral part thereto. The following minimum requirements shall
be met:
         a.   Parking for the event center and associated uses shall be based
on the maximum occupancy of the proposed structure. Maximum occupancy shall be
determined according to the standards of the North Carolina state building
code. One 10’ x 20’ space for every 4 persons or a minimum of 30 spaces which
ever is greater shall be provided.
      (12)   Professional offices including medical facilities.
      (13)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming – hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight pets (not a kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (14)   Restaurants, food service, café provided the minimum following
conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56. In addition, a fence or vegetative buffer shall be provided adjacent to
residential use or residential zoning district.
         b.   The restaurant shall not feature drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle or drive-up wait
service whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         c.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor and outdoor
seating.
         d.   On-site parking shall be according to Section
22-56 – one 10’ x 20’ parking space for every 3 customer seats plus one 10’ x
20’ space for every 3 employees and loading space.
         e.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         f.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (15)   Retail garden shops and landscaping businesses may be permitted,
subject to requirements of this chapter, provided the following minimum
conditions are met:
         a.   Storage of mulch material may be allowed for retail sale only.
Storage of “stockpiles” of mulch shall not exceed 6 feet in height and no more
than 3 stockpiles may be allowed for each site. Industrial production of mulch
is not permitted.
         b.   One accessory greenhouse for storage and outdoor protection of
plants is permitted. Greenhouse is not to be used for wholesale growing of
plants.
         c.   Associated equipment used by the landscape business such as
trailers, lawn mowers, single-axle trucks and tractors may be stored on the
site. Storage area that is well buffered from general public may include
draglines, bulldozers backhoes and other heavy equipment.
         d.   Storage areas of mulch and equipment shall be buffered with
fencing.
         e.   Outdoor display and storage of plants, bags of soil, mulch,
fertilizer, landscaping stone, landscape timbers, yard ornaments, and the like
shall not restrict parking areas. Bags of mulch, soil, and the like shall be
stacked in an orderly manner.
         f.   Bulk irrigation piping shall be stored indoors.
         g.   Other conditions imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (16)   Retirement homes, assisted living homes, and residential homes as
a group development housing project subject to other requirements of this
chapter and provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Density shall not exceed 1 dwelling unit per 20,000 square feet
of soils not classified as coastal wetlands.
         b.   Duplex units dwelling density shall not exceed 1 dwelling unit
per 25,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands. This may be
reduced to 20,000 square feet of area if served by a central water supply.
         c.   Every dwelling unit shall be accessible to emergency service
vehicles and Dare County Public Works vehicles.
         d.   Project entrance shall be designed from Highway 345 with an
additional turning lane to minimize new driveway cuts onto Highway 345 into the
Village of Wanchese.
         e.   No dwelling unit established as part of a group housing project
shall be situated on a lot so as to face the rear of another dwelling unit
within the development or on adjoining properties.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units are not allowed in sites developed as a
group housing development.
         g.   A traditional village business use is not allowed in sites
developed as a group housing development.
      (17)   Seafood market as defined in Section
22-2.
      (18)   Small childcare center, large childcare center as defined in
Section
22-2 and only associated with a church, school, or other public building.
      (19)   Village center complex: a mixed use development situated on single
parcel of land under single ownership whereby an existing commercial building,
or new structure, may be developed and limited to retail sales units on the
lower level of the structure with residential units on upper level. Additional
residential units may be situated on the site. The following minimum
requirements shall be met:
         a.   Village center complex site must contain a minimum of 3 acres.
         b.   Approval of all supplementary local, state and federal permits.
Site must be adequate for siting commercial structure, parking, loading and
maneuvering space as required by Article VII. Two 10’ x 20’ parking spaces per
residential use shall be provided. Overflow parking, if applicable, shall be
directed to off peak use of commercial spaces.
         c.   Site screening - a vegetative or fence buffer not to exceed 10
feet in height. A 10-foot wide setback shall be required where the site abuts a
residential use or zone (not subject to 20-foot dimensional requirements in D.1
– Dimensional requirements).
         d.   Food service shall be limited to packaged items, such as snacks,
drinks and ice cream. Food service may be located outside the building on site
as a refreshment pavilion to serve patrons in the village complex. Food service
shall be exempt from parking as required for restaurants.
      (20)   Spoil sites for maintenance dredging.
      (21)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (22)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (23)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be
ofsufficient size to meet the requirements the Dare County Environmental Health
Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family structure,
accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivided and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.
         b.   Newly platted lots -- For those lots subdivided and recorded
after March 24, 2006:
            Single-family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
            Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth. Zero line
setback for waterfront lots.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for individual commercial uses on separate
lots or parcels that is not in conjunction with the principal residential use:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation of fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet excluding
decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Hotels, motels, churches, fire
stations, public buildings and schools are excluded from this building size
limitation.
      (8)   Density limitations for motels, hotels, and similar seasonal
lodging structures:
         a.   Structures on a lot or tract that has no soils classified as
wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 10 rental rooms
per acre.
         b.   Structures on a lot or tract that has between .01% and 19.9% of
its soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or section 404 jurisdictional
soils: 8 rental rooms per acre.
         c.   Structures on a lot or tract that has more than 20% of its soils
classified as wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 6
rental rooms per acre.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non-conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Articles I, Article III, Article VII,
Article VIII, and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to
this district.
Ferrell Gas Bulk Fuel Storage: non-conforming use which cannot be enlarged in
anyway however, storage tanks can be repaired in case of natural disaster, but
no greater than the original number and size. Skate Board Bowl: no building
permit has been issued for this structure. It cannot operate as an outdoor
recreation park or private park under Dare County Ordinance. In adequate siting
of structure on property, entrance into property by easement that cannot
accommodate open public traffic for commercial use. There are no bathroom
facilities, parking or office space for a business. (Adopted by the DCBC on
March 24, 2006; amended 2-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.14 - HARBOR ROAD MARINE COMMERCIAL (MC-2)
   All properties entering onto Harbor Road up to the entrance to Wanchese
Seafood Industrial Park
   (a)   Scope and intent: The Marine Commercial District is established to
protect the existing varying marine-oriented uses that require a waterfront
location while promoting marine-oriented uses and other commercial businesses
that do not require a waterfront location, but are related to, or serve a
marine interest. The district is designed to promote constructive improvements
to existing businesses, orderly growth and future development that is sensitive
to any environmental conditions and limitations characterizing much of the
lands within the district situated along the north and south boundaries of
Harbor Road extending to the entrance of Wanchese Industrial Park.
      Furthermore, this district allows and encourages wastewater treatment
systems other than conventional septic tank and drain field systems, that may
be authorized by the Dare County Health Department. However, this does not
include centralized urban-style wastewater collection and treatment systems.
The goal is to protect the quality of the community’s surface water and ground
water supply particularly with the close proximity of this district to Broad
Creek and Mill Landing Creek.
      The district provides space for diverse types of marine commercial
activities and land uses that provide services and goods to people and industry
while strengthening the economic base of Dare County.Moreover, the district
allows for the continued use of a flexible mix of single-family dwellings,
duplex homes, and mobile homes on individual lots, and mobile home parks. The
goal of the community is to protect the harmonious atmosphere of a quaint
fishing village.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in
existence on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and
approval by the Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning
regulations. Construction of additional principal use structures at existing
business sites that would require a special use permit if not already
established prior to March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the
special use permit process.
      The following uses and no other uses shall be permitted by right and are
not necessarily associated with a principal residential use. Any use not
permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial, such as banking.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical.
      (2)   Commercial uses:
         a.   Boat yards, repair.
         b.   Boat and motor display, sales and service.
         c.   Boats - dry dock storage, fenced and not to exceed 50 feet
measured from the finished elevation.
         d.   Boarding of horses, commercial horse ranch/equestrian related
uses and activities, tack shop.
         e.   Box making facilities.
         f.   Cold storage and ice manufacturing.
         g.   Container storage space for boat gear on docks in conjunction
with marina or boat docks.
         h.   Crab shedding operations and associated equipment.
         i.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing gear.
         j.   Dry cleaning, laundromats.
         k.   Existing docking facilities, private and public.
         l.   Electrical equipment, sales and service.
         m.   Electronic equipment, sales and service.
         n.   Fish houses, including packing, processing, seafood sales,
storage and loading and unloading trawlers.
         o.   Fishing - party fishing excursions and associated services.
         p.   Food service –carryout and mobile only (see CUP for seating).
         q.   Hardware supplies.
         r.   Heating and air, sales, service.
         s.   Marine supplies, including rigging, netting, and the like.
         t.   Plumbing supplies, sales and service.
         u.   Private docks and commercial docks.
         v.   Retail shops, including, but not limited to gifts and imports.
         w.   Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
         x.   Seafood processing and seafood market sales – wholesale /retail.
         y.   Schools, commercial limited to sailing/marine oriented outdoor
lifestyle.
         z.   Taxidermist.
         aa.   Upholstery.
         bb.   Vessel refueling.
         cc.   Village general store without fuel pumps and not associated with
a marina.
         dd.   Welding shop and steel fabrication.
      (3)   Single-family dwelling unit in conjunction with commercial business
may be located above or in the rear of commercial building, attached or
detached provided that all federal, state, and local regulations are met. No
additional parking shall be required for the residential use. The residential
use shall not exceed 1,200 square feet of building footprint area.
      (4)   Detached single-family dwellings on individual lots or parcels.
      (5)   Single-family mobile homes located on individual lots, provided:
         a.   Compliance with building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the requirements of the building inspector
regarding skirting materials and skirting area.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (7)   Duplexes.
      (8)   Customary accessory uses associated with principal use, including
windmills not to exceed height limit of this district, garages, sheds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, commercial accessory business structures and any other
structure associated with a residential use.
      (9)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
and referred to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to compliance with all
supplementary local, state and federal permit approvals and in addition to the
following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or be detached from the principal residence. The size of an accessory
dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from, the principal residence
shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.   
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.
         e.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or segregated
in ownership from the principal use structure.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may
be converted into an accessory dwelling unit, if lot coverage can be met for
the accessory unit and the primary residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according tot
all applicable state and federal regulations and local building code
requirements, including federal floodplain elevation regulations if applicable.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal use structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Planning Department, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business activity.
      (10)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use
conducted by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the
principal residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the site.
         f.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from the front property line and 10 feet from any side or rear property
line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) shall not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
            The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional
village business including, but not limited to:
            1.   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
            2.    Retail/wholesale shops:
               a.    Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
               b.    Apparel.
               c.   Artist and art supplies.
               d.   Bait and tackle supplies.
               e.    Beehives.
               f.    Books.
               g.    Camera and photo supplies.
               h.    Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.    
               i.    Florist.
               j.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
               k.   Gifts and imports.
               l.    Hobby goods.
               m.    Hunting and fishing supplies.
               n.    Jewelry.
               o.    Leather goods.
               p.    Millinery shop.
               q.   Music shop.
               r.    Photography equipment.
               s.   Sales and service.
               t.    Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
               u.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
               v.   Toys.
               x.    Upholstery.
               y.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
            3.   Service establishments:
               a.    Automobile detailing.
               b.    Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
               c.    Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
               d.    Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities
according to state regulations.
               e.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
               f.    Bricklayer.
               g.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
               h.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-working.
               i.    Catering business.
               j.    Computer and internet services.
               k.    Concrete finishing business and equipment.
               l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
               m.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
               n.   Craft production and retail sales.
               o.    Electrician.
               p.    Electronics.
               q.    Excavating and equipment.
               r.    Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
               s.    Heating and air.
               t.    Historic home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
               u.   Home schooling.
               v.   House and boat moving business.
               w.    Landscape and lawn care.
               x.   Music lessons.
               y.    Outboard engine repair.
               z.    Painter and dry wall.
               aa.    Photographer.
               bb.    Plumber.
               cc.    Potter, clay works, ceramics.
               dd.    Pressure washing business.
               ee.    Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
               ff.    Roofer.
               gg.    Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
               hh.   Small engine repair.
               ii.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
               jj.    Taxidermist.
               kk.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood
sales.
               ll.    Welding shop.
            4.   Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated with
principal use:
               a.    Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and
wholesale markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
               b.   Boat dockage of 10 slips or less.
               c.   Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
               d.    Boathouses and sheds.
               e.   Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
               f.    Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
               g.    Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial
accessory use.
               h.    Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other
outdoor activities.
      (11)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (12)   Aquaculture and associated activities related to fish farming as
regulated by the State.
      (13)   Small child care homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (14)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (15)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (16)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
      (17)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Boat building facilities if constructed after March 24, 2006. Boat
Building facilities shall have a maximum building height limit of 52 feet
measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Shall be located on a parcel of land containing not less than 1
acre.
         b.   Shall be separated by a minimum distance of 100 feet from a
residential structure measured from exterior wall to exterior wall.
         c.   No more than one structure on the parcel shall be allowed with a
building height exceeding the building height limit of Section
22-27.14(d)(7).
         d.   Structures exceeding the building height limit of Section
22-27.14(d)(7) shall be separated by a distance of 300 feet measured from
exterior wall to exterior wall.
      (2)   Cemeteries, churches, fire stations and other public buildings.
      (3)   Communication tower only associated with an on-site business.
      (4)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (5)   Fuel storage only associated with on-site business use.
      (6)   Group housing projects according to Section
22-31 plus the following requirements:
         a.   Density shall not exceed 1 unit per 20,000 square feet of soils
not classified as coastal wetlands; duplex home 25,000 square feet of soils not
classified as coastal wetlands provided this area may be reduced to 20,000
square feet if duplex is served by central water supply.
         b.   Every dwelling shall be accessible to emergency service vehicles
and Dare County Public Works vehicles.
         c.   A turning lane into project shall be provided with additional
setback buffer along state-maintained rights-of-way into the residential
neighborhoods.
         d.   Building height limit of 40 feet as defined in this section.
         e.   No mooring of permanent floating homes and other permanent
floating structures as defined in 15A NCAC 7M00602 in the surrounding public
trust waters of Dare County.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units are not allowed in sites developed as a
group housing development.
         g.   A traditional village business use is not allowed in sites
developed as a group housing development.
         h.   Other requirements that may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (7)   Group development projects (more than one principal building per
parcel when land is under single ownership) according to Section
22-31.
      (8)   Marinas, boat dockage, village marina store with fuel pumps, boat
rentals for fishing excursions, and other non- motorized boat rentals provided
the following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56.
         b.   Food and beverage services and/or a restaurant may be associated
with a marina.
         c.   All boat rentals, except for fishing excursion rentals, shall be
limited to non-motorized vessels and shall be limited to a total of 10 vessels
offered for rent.
         d.   Fuel pumps shall not be located within 50 feet of a residential
zoning district or residential use and that such fuel pumps shall be setback a
minimum of 25 feet from all rights-of-way.
         e.   One 10’ x 20’ parking space shall be provided for each wet boat
slip.
         f.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         g.   Other reasonable conditions as may imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (9)   Mobile home parks and travel trailer parks in accordance with the
provisions of the Dare County Mobile Home Park Ordinance.
      (10)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming – hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight guests (not a kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (11)   Public and private utilities shall provide a vegetative buffer at
least 10 feet in height.
      (12)   Restaurants on individual parcels or as an accessory use and
designed as part of a marina project provided the minimum following conditions
are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56. In addition, a fence or vegetative buffer shall be provided adjacent to
residential use or residential zoning district.
         b.   The restaurant shall not feature drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle or drive-up wait
service whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         c.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor and outdoor
seating.
         d.   On-site parking shall be according to Section
22-56 – one 10’ x 20’ parking space for every 3 customer seats plus one 10’ x
20’ space for every 3 employees and loading space.
         e.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         f.   Other reasonable conditions as may imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (13)   Storage/warehousing and warehouse storage centers, including boat
trailers and long-term storage containers and mobile storage, provided the
following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Site shall be buffered with wooden opaque fencing not to exceed
10 feet in height and also provide sound and site screening as visual and sound
buffer to residential homes in and around area of warehouse storage site.
         b.   Outdoor lighting plan shall be submitted with a site plan.
         c.   Hours of operation shall be included as part of CUP review.
         d.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (14)   Village center complex: a mixed use development situated on single
parcel of land under single ownership whereby an existing commercial building,
or new structure, may be developed and limited to retail sales units on the
lower level of the structure with residential units on upper level. Additional
residential units may be situated on the site. The following minimum
requirements shall be met:
         a.   Village center complex site must contain a minimum of 3 acres.
         b.   Approval of all supplementary local, state and federal permits.
Site must be adequate for siting commercial structure, parking, loading and
maneuvering space as required by Article VII. Two 10’ x 20’ parking spaces per
residential use shall be provided. Overflow parking, if applicable, shall be
directed to off peak use of commercial spaces.
         c.   Site screening - a vegetative or fence buffer not to exceed 10
feet in height. A 10-foot wide setback shall be required where the site abuts a
residential use or zone (not subject to 20-foot dimensional requirements in D.1
– Dimensional requirements).
         d.   Food service shall be limited to packaged items, such as snacks,
drinks and ice cream. Food service may be located outside the building on site
as a refreshment pavilion to serve patrons in the village complex. Food service
shall be exempt from parking as required for restaurants.
      (15)   Village general store with fuel pumps on individual parcels or as
an accessory to marinas.
      (16)   Spoil sites for maintenance dredging.
      (17)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (18)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (19)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family
structure, accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivided and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.
         b.   Newly platted lots - For those lots subdivided and recorded after
March 24, 2006:
            Single family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
         c.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth. Zero line
setback for waterfront lots.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for individual commercial use on separate lot
or parcel that is not in conjunction with principal residential use:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation or fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet excluding
decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Hotels, motels, churches, fire
stations, public buildings and schools are excluded from this building size
limitation.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non-conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Articles I, Article III, Article VII,
Article VIII, and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to
this district. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; amended 2-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 9-3-
2024)
SECTION 22-27.15 - WANCHESE WHARF MARINE COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT (MC-1)
   Westside of Wanchese Village at the south end of Old Wharf Road along the
shoreline areas of Oyster Creek and a portion of Owens Shipyard Road, Sawyer
Road and Beverly Drive.
   (a)   Scope and intent: The Wanchese Wharf Marine Commercial I District is
identified in the general location along the boundaries at the west end of Old
Wharf Road at the shoreline area of Oyster Creek, a natural deep-water port.
The Wanchese Wharf area is historically known as a natural deep-water port and
has been used for shipping and harbor activities since before the Civil War.
For that reason, land uses in the district are established to preserve and
protect the continuation of harbor activities and promote constructive
improvements to existing businesses and allow for future development with
limitations characterizing much of the lands and a gross building size of
10,000 square feet.
Furthermore, the district provides for a flexible mix of residential housing
that includes single family homes, duplex dwellings, and mobile homes on
individual lots and future compatible land uses that support group housing
developments limited to a maximum lost size of 20,000 square feet per single
family dwelling unit.
      This district allows and encourages wastewater treatment systems, other
than conventional septic tank and drain field systems, that may be authorized
by the Dare County Health Department. However, this does not include
centralized urban-style wastewater collection and treatment systems.
Development in the Village of Wanchese will serve to protect not only the
quality of the community’s surface water but also its ground water quality,
particularly with the close proximity of this district to Oyster Creek, Baum
Creek, and Croatan Sound. The goal of the community is to protect the village
lifestyle, which gives the village its attractiveness both as a place to live
and a place to visit.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be
allowed to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County,
regardless if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special
use in any of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in
existence on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and
approval by the Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning
regulations. Construction of additional principal use structures at existing
business sites that would require a special use permit if not already
established prior to March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the
special use permit process.
      The following uses and no other uses shall be permitted by right and are
not necessarily associated with a principal residential use. Any use not
permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial, such as banking.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical.
      (2)   Commercial uses:
         a.   Automotive service and repair.
            i.   Towing and temporary storage in conjunction with on-site
repairs.
            ii.   Garage bays limited to 6 bays.
            iii.   Total number of employees shall not exceed 8.
            iv.   Owners may prefer not to have on-site office open to public.
         b.   Boat yards, repair.
         c.   Boat and motor display, sales and service.
         d.   Boats - dry dock storage, fenced and not to exceed 50 feet
measured from the finished elevation.
         e.   Boarding of horses, equestrian related uses and activities, tack
shop.
         f.   Box making facilities.
         g.   Cabinet making, marine related only.
         h.   Cold storage and ice manufacturing.
         i.   Contractors’ offices, supplies and services.
         j.   Container storage space for boat gear on docks in conjunction
with marina or boat docks.
         k.   Crab shedding operations and associated equipment.
         l.   Commercial fishing nets, sales, service and storage.
         m.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing gear.
         n.   Dry cleaning and laundromats.
         o.   Existing docking facilities, private and public.
         p.   Electrical equipment, sales and service.
         q.   Electronic equipment, sales and service.
         r.   Fish houses, including packing, processing, seafood sales,
storage and loading and unloading trawlers.
         s.   Fishing - party fishing excursions and associated services.
         t.   Food service - carry-out and mobile (see CUP for restaurant).
         u.   Hardware supplies.
         v.   Heating and air, sales, service.
         w.   Hotels, motels, tourist homes as defined in Section
22-2. If more than one structure shall be reviewed as a group development
subject to Section
22-31.
         x.   Marine supplies, including rigging, netting, and the like.
         y.   Plumbing supplies, sales and service.
         z.   Post office facilities.
         aa.   Private docks and commercial docks.
         bb.   Retail shops, including, but not limited to gifts and imports.
         cc.   Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
         dd.   Seafood processing and seafood market sales – wholesale /retail.
         ee.   Schools, commercial limited to sailing/marine oriented outdoor
lifestyle.
         ff.   Taxidermist.
         gg.   Upholstery shop.
         hh.   Vessel refueling.
         ii.   Village General Store without fuel pumps and not associated with
marina.
         jj.   Welding shop and steel fabrication.
      (3)   Single-family dwelling unit in conjunction with commercial business
may be located above or in the rear of commercial building, attached or
detached provided that all federal, state, and local regulations are met. No
additional parking shall be required for the residential use. The residential
use shall not exceed 1,200 square feet of building footprint area.
      (4)   Detached single-family dwellings on individual lots or parcels.
      (5)   Single-family mobile homes located on individual lots, provided:
         a.   Compliance with building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the requirements of the building inspector
regarding skirting materials and skirting area.
      (6)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (7)   Duplexes.
      (8)   Customary accessory uses associated with principal use, including
windmills not to exceed height limit of this district, garages, sheds, swimming
pools, tennis courts, commercial accessory business structures and any other
structure associated with a residential use.
      (9)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with principal residential use
and referred to as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to compliance with all
supplementary local, state and federal permit approvals and in addition to the
following:
         a.   An accessory dwelling unit may be attached to the principal
residence or be detached from the principal residence. The size of an accessory
dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from, the principal residence
shall not exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the site in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   The owner of the property and/or family member shall occupy
either the primary residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.
         e.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or segregated
in ownership from the principal use structure.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory dwelling unit, if
lot coverage can be met for the accessory unit and the primary residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according to all
applicable state and federal regulations and local building code requirements,
including federal floodplain elevation regulations if applicable.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal use structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Planning Department, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business activity.
      (10)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use
conducted by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the
principal residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the site.
         f.   Visual buffer: a 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after March 24, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from the front property line and 10 feet from any side or rear property
line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) shall not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
            The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional
village business including, but not limited to:
            1.   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
            2.    Retail/wholesale shops:
               a.    Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
               b.    Apparel.
               c.   Artist and art supplies.
               d.   Bait and tackle supplies.
               e.    Beehives.
               f.    Books.
               g.    Camera and photo supplies.
               h.    Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.    
               i.    Florist.
               j.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
               k.   Gifts and imports.
               l.    Hobby goods.
               m.    Hunting and fishing supplies.
               n.    Jewelry.
               o.    Leather goods.
               p.    Millinery shop.
               q.   Music shop.
               r.    Photography equipment sales and service.
               s.    Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
               t.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
               u.   Toys.
               v.    Upholstery.
               w.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
            3.   Service establishments:
               a.    Automobile detailing.
               b.    Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
               c.    Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
               d.    Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities
according to state regulations.
               e.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
               f.    Bricklayer.
               g.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
               h.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-working.
               i.    Catering business.
               j.    Computer and internet services.
               k.    Concrete finishing business and equipment.
               l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
               m.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
               n.   Craft production and retail sales.
               o.    Electrician.
               p.    Electronics.
               q.    Excavating and equipment.
               r.    Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
               s.    Heating and air.
               t.    History home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
               u.   Home schooling.
               v.   House and boat moving business.
               w.    Landscape and lawn care.
               x.   Music lessons.
               y.    Outboard engine repair.
               z.    Painter and dry wall.
               aa.    Photographer.
               bb.    Plumber.
               cc.    Potter, clay works, ceramics.
               dd.    Pressure washing business.
               ee.    Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
               ff.    Roofer.
               gg.    Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
               hh.   Small engine repair.
               ii.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
               jj.    Taxidermist.
               kk.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood
sales.
               ll.    Welding shop.
            4.   Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated with
principal use:
               a.    Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and
wholesale markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
               b.   Boat dockage of 10 slips or less.
               c.   Boat shop not to exceed 1,200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
               d.    Boathouses and sheds.
               e.   Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
               f.    Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
               g.    Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial
accessory use.
               h.    Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other
outdoor activities.
      (11)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (12)   Aquaculture and associated activities related to fish farming as
regulated by the State.
      (13)   Small child care homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (14)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (15)   County owned and leased facilities.
      (16)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
      (17)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on March 24, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence
on March 24, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
March 24, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Boat building facilities if constructed after date of adoption of
ordinance.
      (2)   Cemeteries, churches, fire stations and other public buildings.
      (3)   Communication tower associated with principal business on-site.
      (4)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (5)   Fuel storage only associated with on-site business use.
      (6)   Group development housing project subject to requirements of
Section
22-31 provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Density shall not exceed 1 unit per 20,000 square feet of soils
not classified as coastal wetlands; duplex home 25,000 square feet of soils not
classified as coastal wetlands provided this area may be reduced to 20,000
square feet if duplex is served by central water supply.
         b.   Every dwelling unit shall be accessible to emergency service
vehicles and Dare County Public Works vehicles.
         c.   A turning lane into project shall be provided with additional
setback buffer along state rights-of-way.
         d.   Building height shall be limited to 40 feet as defined in this
section.
         e.   No dwelling unit shall be situated on a lot to face the rear of
another dwelling structure within the project and other adjoining properties.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units are not allowed in sites developed as a
group housing development.
         g.   A traditional village business use is not allowed in sites
developed as a group housing development.
         h.   No mooring of permanent floating homes and other permanent
floating structures as defined in 15A NCAC 7M00602 in the surrounding public
trust waters of Dare County.
         i.   Other reasonable conditions that may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (7)   Group development projects (more than one principal building per
parcel when land is under single ownership) according to Section
22-31.
      (8)   Marinas, boat dockage, village marina store with fuel pumps, boat
rentals for fishing excursions, and other non-motorized boat rentals provided
the following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56.
         b.   Food and beverage service and/or a restaurant may be associated
with a marina.
         c.   All boat rentals, except for fishing excursion rentals, shall be
limited to non-motorized vessels and shall be limited to a total of 10 vessels
offered for rent.
         d.   Fuel pumps shall not be located within 50 feet of a residential
zoning district or residential use and that such fuel pumps shall be setback a
minimum of 25 feet from all rights-of-way.
         e.   One 10’ x 20’ parking space shall be provided for each wet boat
slip.
         f.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         g.   Other reasonable conditions as may imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (9)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming – hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight guests (not a kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (10)   Public and private utilities (shall provide a vegetative buffer at
least 10 feet in height).
      (11)   Restaurants on individual parcels or as an accessory use and
designed as part of a marina project provided the minimum following conditions
are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56. In addition, a fence or vegetative buffer shall be provided adjacent to
residential use or residential zoning district.
         b.   The restaurant shall not feature drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle or drive-up wait
service whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         c.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor and outdoor
seating.
         d.   On-site parking shall be according to Section
22-56 – one 10’ x 20’ parking space for every 3 customer seats plus one 10’ x
20’ space for every 3 employees and loading space.
         e.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         f.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (12)   Storage/warehousing and warehouse storage centers, including boat
trailers and long-term storage containers and mobile storage, provided the
following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Site shall be buffered with wooden opaque fencing not to exceed
10 feet in height and also provide sound and site screening as visual and sound
buffer to residential homes in and around area of warehouse storage site.
         b.   Outdoor lighting plan shall be submitted with a site plan.
         c.   Hours of operation shall be included as part of CUP review.
         d.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (13)   Village center complex: a mixed use development situated on single
parcel of land under single ownership whereby an existing commercial building,
or new structure, may be developed and limited to retail sales units on the
lower level of the structure with residential units on upper level. Additional
residential units may be situated on the site. The following minimum
requirements shall be met:
         a.   Village center complex site must contain a minimum of 3 acres.
         b.   Approval of all supplementary local, state and federal permits.
Site must be adequate for siting commercial structure, parking, loading and
maneuvering space as required by Article VII. Two 10’ x 20’ parking spaces per
residential use shall be provided. Overflow parking, if applicable, shall be
directed to off peak use of commercial spaces.
         c.   Site screening - a vegetative or fence buffer not to exceed 10
feet in height. A 10-foot wide setback shall be required where the site abuts a
residential use or zone (not subject to 20-foot dimensional requirements in D.1
– Dimensional requirements).
         d.   Food service shall be limited to packaged items, such as snacks,
drinks and ice cream. Food service may be located outside the building on site
as a refreshment pavilion to serve patrons in the village complex. Food service
shall be exempt from parking as required for restaurants.
      (14)   Village general store with fuel pumps on individual parcels and as
an accessory to marinas.
      (15)   Spoil site areas for maintenance dredging.
      (16)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (17)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (18)   Special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family
structure, accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivide and recorded before
March 24, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded before March 24, 2006.
         b.   Newly platted lots -- For those lots subdivided and recorded
after March 24, 2006:
            Single family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
         c.   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth. Zero line
setback for waterfront lots.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for individual commercial use on separate lot
or parcel that is not in conjunction with principal residential use:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation of fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet excluding
decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Hotels, motels, churches, fire
stations, public buildings and schools are exempt from the 10,000 square foot
building size.
      (8)   Density limitations for motels, hotels, and similar seasonal
lodging structures:
         a.   Structures on a lot or tract that has no soils classified as
wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 10 rental rooms
per acre.
         b.   Structures on a lot or tract that has between .01% and 19.9% of
its soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or section 404 jurisdictional
soils: 8 rental rooms per acre.
         c.   Structures on a lot or tract that has more than 20% of its soils
classified as wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 6
rental rooms per acre.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non-conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Articles I, Article III, Article VII,
Article VIII, and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to
this district. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; amended 2-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 11-4-
2024)
SECTION 22-27.16 - HIGHWAY 345 BUSINESS DISTRICT (HWY 345)
   The Highway 345 Business district shown on the Dare County tax map, tax
district 17 originally dated November 20, 1975 depicts tracts of land that lie
along Highway NC 345 bounded on the east by the Pamlico Sound and on the west
by Croatan Sound and Oyster Creek. Moreover, these tracts of land border NC
Highway 345, a heavily traveled thoroughfare to the southern portion of Roanoke
Island.
   (a)   Scope and intent: This district provides for a mix of residential and
commercial neighborhoods that offer a broad range of services and commodities
that will serve seasonal and local residents. The mixed residential district
includes single family homes and duplex homes in a group housing development
setting that support private wells or a central water supply with alternative
methods of wastewater treatment facilities approved by the Dare County
Environmental Health Department (not to include centralized urban-style
wastewater collection and treatment systems). A maximum gross building size of
30,000 square feet (10,000 square feet of heated space and 20,000 square feet
of non-heated space) for commercial structures is included in the regulations
thereby allowing for future compatible land uses such as hotels and motels and
similar lodging structures.
      Furthermore, the Highway 345 Business District provides for land uses
that allow goods and services for people and industry while strengthening the
economic base of Dare County and ensures the protection of the fragile and
pleasant atmosphere at the south end of Roanoke Island. Highway 345 provides
the only vehicular transportation route into the Village of Wanchese. There is
concern for the large expanses of wetland areas along NC 345 that contain
marginal soils and are not suitable for high-density development. A number of
water supply wells, which serve the Dare County water system, are located
within this district. Land use adjacent to these wells is also a concern and is
reflected in the minimum lot size established in this zoning district. Density
in this district shall be limited to 20,000 square feet and duplex lots limited
to 25,000 square feet. Another goal is to protect the quality of the
communities’ surface water and ground water supply particularly with the close
proximity of this district to Broad Creek, Croatan Sound, Pamlico Sound and the
various creeks and canals that serve as nursery areas for fish and wildlife.
   (b)   Permitted uses: Any use in existence on June 5, 2006 shall be allowed
to continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless
if that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any
of the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence
on June 5, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
June 5, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following uses and no other uses shall be permitted by right. Any use
not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Commercial uses:
         a.   Boat yards and repair.
         b.   Boat and motor display, sales and service.
         c.   Boarding of horses, equestrian related uses and activities, tack
shop.
         d.   Box making facilities.
         e.   Cabinet and woodworking shop.
         f.   Contractors’ offices, supplies and services.
         g.   Crab shedding operations and associated equipment.
         h.   Commercial fishing nets, sales, service and storage.
         i.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing gear.
         j.   Docks private, public and commercial.
         k.   Dry cleaning and laundromats.
         l.   Electrical equipment, sales and service.
         m.   Electronic equipment, sales and service.
         n.   General village store without fuel pumps and not associated with
a marina.
         o.   Hotels, motels – administrative review for one principal building
per site, two or more buildings require special use permit for group
development.
         p.   Fish houses, including packing, processing, seafood sales,
storage and loading and unloading trawlers.
         q.   Fishing - party fishing excursions and associated services.
         r.   Food services –carryout (if seating see SUP).
         s.   Hardware supplies.
         t.   Heating and air, sales, service.
         u.   Tourist homes as defined in Section
22-2.
         v.   Mobile home parks according to the Mobile Home Park Ordinance.
         w.   Plumbing supplies, sales and service.
         x.   Retail shops, including, but not limited to gifts and imports.
         y.   Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
         z.   Seafood processing and seafood market sales – wholesale /retail.
         aa.   Schools, commercial limited to sailing/marine oriented outdoor
lifestyle.
         bb.   Travel trailer parks and campgrounds according to the Travel
Trailer Park Ordinance.
         cc.   Upholstery, fabric dry goods.
         dd.   Village general store without fuel pumps and not associated with
a marina.
         ee.   Welding shop and steel fabrication.
      (2)   Single-family dwelling in conjunction with a commercial business
may be located above or in the rear of a commercial building, or a detached
structure, provided that all federal, state and local regulations are met.
Additional parking for the residential use shall not be needed.
      (3)   Detached single-family dwelling on individual lots or parcels.
      (4)   Bed and breakfast homes.
         a.   Small bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
         b.   Large bed and breakfast home as defined in Section
22-2.
      (5)   Single-family mobile homes on individual lots, provided that:
         a.   Compliance with the building code for mobile homes in a hurricane
area.
         b.   Compliance with the building inspector requirements regarding
skirting material and skirting area.
      (6)   Duplexes.
      (7)   Small childcare homes as defined in Section
22-2.
      (8)   Customary accessory uses associated with commercial or residential
principal use, including windmills, not to exceed height limit of this
district, garages, sheds, swimming pools and other accessory uses associated
with the commercial and or residential use.
      (9)   Accessory dwelling unit associated with residential use referred to
as a “guesthouse” is permitted, subject to the following requirements:
         a.   A dwelling unit may be attached to the principal residence or may
be detached from the principal residence. The size of the accessory dwelling
unit, whether attached to or detached from principal residence, shall not to
exceed 900 square feet of heated space.
         b.   An accessory dwelling unit, whether attached to or detached from
the principal residence, shall be located on the lot in conformance with the
building setbacks of this zoning district.
         c.   Owner and/or family members shall occupy either the primary
residence or accessory dwelling unit.
         d.   One additional off-street parking space shall be required.
         e.   Accessory dwelling unit shall not be subdivided or otherwise
segregated in ownership from the primary residence.
         f.   An outbuilding on a residential lot that exists at the time of
adoption of this ordinance may be converted into an accessory building unit,
provided that lot overage is met for the dwelling unit and the primary
residence.
         g.   The accessory dwelling unit shall be constructed according to all
applicable federal, state regulations and local building inspection
requirements. And, if applicable, compliance with federal flood plain elevation
standards.
         h.   Once permitted, the property owner shall submit annual
verification of year round occupancy of the principal structure or the
accessory dwelling unit to the Dare County Zoning Administrator, if necessary.
         i.   Travel trailers, recreational vehicles, and/or mobile homes shall
not be used as accessory dwelling units.
         j.   Accessory dwelling units shall not be used for any commercial or
business use.
      (10)   Traditional village business – A commercial accessory use
conducted by owner and/or family member residing on the lot or parcel of the
principal residence provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Property owner and/or family member operates a business and
resides on the premises.
         b.   Merchandise produced on or off of the premises may be sold on
premises.
         c.   An accessory commercial building shall not exceed 1,200 square
feet. In addition, 25% of the total floor area of the principal residence may
be used for said business.
         d.   One indirectly lighted freestanding sign, not to exceed 36 square
feet, may be posted on the property.
         e.   On-site parking for up to 4 spaces shall be provided on the site.
         f.   Visual buffer: A 6-foot opaque wooden fence or vegetative buffer
shall be provided for any business established after June 5, 2006. In some
instances, existing dense shrubs, trees, and plants may provide screening.
         g.   In the case where a property owner owns land that is contiguous
to the principal residential use and accessory business, said land may be used
as an extension and a part of the traditional village business use. The
setbacks listed in subsection (d) of this district shall not apply.
         h.   The traditional village business shall be located a minimum of 15
feet from the front property line and 10 feet from any side or rear property
line. The setbacks listed in subsection (d) of this district shall not apply.
         i.   An average of 3 non-resident employees may be employed.
            The following list of uses may be permitted as a traditional
village business including, but not limited to:
            1.   Offices: business, financial, professional, and medical.
            2.    Retail/wholesale shops:
               a.    Antiques, furniture, and home decor.
               b.    Apparel.
               c.   Artist and art supplies.
               d.   Bait and tackle supplies.
               e.    Beehives.
               f.    Books.
               g.    Camera and photo supplies.
               h.    Coffee/tea cakes, pies, bakery goods and edibles.
               i.    Florist.
               j.   Fruit and vegetable stand.
               k.   Gifts and imports.
               l.    Hobby goods.
               m.    Hunting and fishing supplies.
               n.    Jewelry.
               o.    Leather goods.
               p.    Millinery shop.
               q.   Music shop.
               r.    Photography equipment sales and service.
               s.    Sewing shop/needle works, dry goods and supplies.
               t.   Tack and equestrian associated sales.
               u.   Toys.
               v.    Upholstery.
               w.    Woodcarving, ducks and other wildlife.
            3.   Service establishments:
               a.    Automobile detailing.
               b.    Barber and beauty shops including tanning and exercise
facilities.
               c.    Bicycle rentals with buffered storage area.
               d.    Boarding of horses, equestrian associated activities
according to state regulations.
               e.   Boat building shop – (not to exceed 1,200 sq. ft. boat size
limited to 36 ft.).
               f.    Bricklayer.
               g.   Bake shops – cakes, pastries, edibles and bakery goods.
               h.    Carpenter/cabinet/wood-working.
               i.    Catering business.
               j.    Computer and internet services.
               k.    Concrete finishing business and equipment.
               l.   Crab pot storage and other crabbing and commercial fishing
gear.
               m.   Crab shedders and associated operations.
               n.   Craft production and retail sales.
               o.    Electrician.
               p.    Electronics.
               q.    Excavating and equipment.
               r.    Hardwood flooring, carpet, vinyl and ceramic tile
installation.
               s.    Heating and air.
               t.    History home place tours and interpretation of village
lifestyle.
               u.   Home schooling.
               v.   House and boat moving business.
               w.    Landscape and lawn care.
               x.   Music lessons.
               y.    Outboard engine repair.
               z.    Painter and dry wall.
               aa.    Photographer.
               bb.    Plumber.
               cc.    Potter, clay works, ceramics.
               dd.    Pressure washing business.
               ee.    Radio, TV broadcasting and film production studio.
               ff.    Roofer.
               gg.    Seafood sales as per North Carolina regulations.
               hh.   Small engine repair.
               ii.   Small trucking business – parking business truck on site.
               jj.    Taxidermist.
               kk.   Tree removal, stump grinding, log splitting and wood
sales.
               ll.    Welding shop.
            4.   Specific waterfront commercial accessory uses associated with
principal use:
               a.    Commercial fishing and crabbing business, retail and
wholesale markets, including all rigging and storage of crab and fish gear.
               b.   Boat dockage of 10 slips or less.
               c.   Boat shop not to exceed 1200 square feet of floor area and
limited to the construction of 36-foot boats.
               d.    Boathouses and sheds.
               e.   Boat rentals limited to non-motorized watercraft.
               f.    Fishing party excursions ½ day and full day trips.
               g.    Private boat ramps for residential use or commercial
accessory use.
               h.    Schools offering private lessons for sailing and other
outdoor activities.
      (11)   Agriculture farming, livestock, waterfowl, poultry and related
activities for personal use.
      (12)   Aquaculture and associated activities related to fish farming as
regulated by the State.
      (13)   Private home antennas and on-site accessory business use antennas.
      (14)   Commercial storage yards as defined in Section
22-2 provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   Storage areas shall be enclosed with fencing for security
purposes. Such fencing shall be at least 6 feet in height but shall not exceed
10 feet in height. The security fencing shall be maintained as needed by the
property owner.
         b.   A vegetative buffer in addition to the security fencing shall be
installed and perpetually maintained where the storage yard abuts a residential
zone or a residential use to the side or the rear of the site. The vegetative
buffer shall be of a sufficient size and height to effectively buffer the site
from the abutting residential zone or residential use. A plan detailing the
type, size, and species of vegetation proposed for use as a buffer shall be
provided to the Zoning Administrator for review and approval. Existing on-site
vegetation may be used if deemed to be sufficient by the Zoning Administrator.
         c.   There shall be no storage of inoperable or junked vehicles and
equipment; unoccupied mobile (manufactured) homes; unattached flatbed trailers
or container-type trailers designed for connection to tractor-trailer trucks;
or large pieces of equipment used in dredging operations, road construction,
and other industrial uses. Any vehicle or trailer stored on the site shall have
a valid license plate and/or valid owner registration.
         d.   No recreational vehicles, travel trailers, or campers stored on
the site shall be occupied or used for habitation while stored at the site.
         e.   All vehicles and equipment stored on the site shall be locked,
enclosed or otherwise fashioned to such an extent that it is impossible for a
child to obtain access or be entrapped in such vehicle or equipment.
         f.   There shall be no bulk storage of fuel, paint, or other
combustible or hazardous materials at the site.
      (15)   County, state and U.S. government owned and leased facilities.
      (16)   Heritage gardens – designated areas of land leased to the public
for gardening projects.
      (17)   Radio and broadcast studio facilities and associated broadcast
transmission towers that existed prior to March 24, 2006. Replacement or
reconstruction of towers that existed prior to March 24, 2006 may be authorized
as permitted uses provided that such towers have received all necessary Federal
Communications Commission license and Federal Aviation Administration license
prior to March 24, 2006 and shall not exceed the height authorized by the FCC.
The standards of Section
22-29.2 shall not apply to towers that qualify for replacement under this
section. Replacement towers shall be located in a
manner that maximizes separations from all property lines and in no case shall
the setbacks be less than those of the Highway 345 district. Documentation
shall be submitted that is signed and sealed from a North Carolina licensed
engineer that the replacement tower meets the structural requirements of the
North Carolina building code and a professional engineering certification which
states that the structure’s construction will cause the tower to crumble inward
so that in the event of collapse, no damage to surrounding structures will
result. Lighting of the tower shall be according to all Federal Communications
Commission and Federal Aviation Association standards.
      (18)   Residential recovery and treatment center to include housing in
multifamily structures and educational training. Center can be located in a
single structure or multiple structures on one parcel of land. If more than one
structure on parcel, it will be considered a group development subject to
conditional use permit review according to Section
22-31 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
      (19)   Workforce housing - administrative review for one WHU subject to
provisions of Section
22-58.7.
   (c)   Special uses: Any use in existence on June 5, 2006 shall be allowed to
continue in operation without seeking approval from Dare County, regardless if
that use is listed as a permitted use or is listed as a special use in any of
the Wanchese zoning districts. Additions or expansion of uses in existence on
June 5, 2006 shall be subject to administrative review and approval by the Dare
County Planning Department for compliance with the zoning regulations.
Construction of additional principal use structures at existing business sites
that would require a special use permit if not already established prior to
June 5, 2006 shall trigger review and approval under the special use permit
process.
      The following special uses and no other special uses may be permitted,
subject to the requirements of this district and the regulations and
requirements imposed by the Board of Commissioners as provided by Article IX of
this chapter. Any use not permitted herein shall be deemed prohibited.
      (1)   Boat building facilities.
      (2)   Churches, fire stations, cemeteries, and other public buildings.
      (3)   Telecommunication towers subject to all standards established in
Section
22-29.2 of the Zoning Ordinance. (Amended 6-18-2018)
      (4)   Home occupations as defined in Section
22-2.
      (5)   Elder in-home care, up to 4 non-related patients (private home
nursing) provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Employee and visitor parking according to Section
22-56 in addition to 1 parking space for each non-resident employee.
         b.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (6)   Fuel storage only associated with on-site business use.
      (7)   Group development housing projects according to Section
22-31 plus the following requirements:
         a.   Density shall not exceed 1 unit per 20,000 square feet of soils
not classified as coastal wetlands; duplex home 25,000 square feet of soils not
classified as coastal wetlands provided this area may be reduced to 20,000
square feet if duplex is served by central water supply.
         b.   Every dwelling unit shall be accessible to emergency service
vehicles and Dare County Public Works vehicles.
         c.   Turning lane into project shall be provided with additional
setback buffer along state-maintained rights-of-way into the residential
neighborhoods.
         d.   Building height limit of 40 feet as defined in this section.
         e.   No mooring of permanent floating homes and other permanent
floating structures as defined in 15A NCAC 7M00602 in the surrounding public
trust waters of Dare County.
         f.   Accessory dwelling units are not allowed in sites developed as a
group housing development.
         g.   A traditional village business use is not allowed in sites
developed as a group housing development.
         h.   Other requirements that may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (8)   Commercial group development projects (more than one principal
structure per parcel under single ownership) according to Section
22-31.
      (9)   Marinas, boat dockage, village marina store with fuel pumps, boat
rentals for fishing excursions, and other non-motorized boat rentals provided
the following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56.
         b.   Food and beverage service and/or a restaurant may be associated
with a marina.
         c.   All boat rentals, except for fishing excursion rentals, shall be
limited to non-motorized vessels and shall be limited to a total of 10 vessels
offered for rent.
         d.   Fuel pumps shall not be located within 50 feet of a residential
zoning district or residential use and that such fuel pumps shall be setback a
minimum of 25 feet from all rights-of-way.
         e.   One 10’ x 20’ parking space shall be provided for each wet boat
slip.
         f.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         g.   Subject to the other requirements of the Zoning Ordinance and
other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (10)   Public and private utilities (shall provide a planted vegetative
buffer 10 feet in height).
      (11)   Private meeting and recreational facilities such as an event
center for weddings and group parties, including private boat launching areas,
tennis courts, picnic areas, private swimming pools and beaches, whereby
catering is an integral part thereto. The following minimum requirements shall
be met:
         a.   Parking for the event center and associated uses shall be based
on the maximum occupancy of the proposed structure. Maximum occupancy shall be
determined according to the North Carolina state building codes. One 10’ x 20’
space for every 4 persons or a minimum of 30 spaces whichever is greater.
      (12)   Pet grooming provided the following minimum requirements are met:
         a.   Shall be owner and/or family occupied residential premises.
         b.   Day care only for grooming – hours of operation limited to 7:00
a.m. to 6:00 p.m.
         c.   No outdoor run facilities and no overnight guests (not a kennel).
         d.   Other reasonable conditions imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (13)   Restaurants, food service, café provided the minimum following
conditions are met:
         a.   Lot size shall be sufficient to meet requirements of the Dare
County Health Department and to provide adequate siting for structures,
parking, loading and maneuvering space as provided in Section
22-56. In addition, a fence or vegetative buffer shall be provided adjacent to
residential use or residential zoning district.
         b.   The restaurant shall not feature drive-thru window service
whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle or drive-up wait
service whereby patrons are served while seated in a motor vehicle.
         c.   The restaurant shall include facilities for indoor and outdoor
seating.
         d.   On-site parking shall be according to Section
22-56 – one 10’ x 20’ parking space for every 3 customer seats plus one 10’ x
20’ space for every 3 employees and loading space.
         e.   Outdoor lighting shall be complete cut-off design, low-profile,
shielded and oriented in such a manner to minimize spill across property lines
and prevent glare at any location on or off the property. A lighting plan shall
be submitted as part of the site plan.
         f.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (14)   Retail garden shops and landscaping business may be permitted,
subject to requirements of this chapter, provided the following minimum
conditions are met:
         a.   Storage of mulch material may be allowed for retail sale only.
Storage “stockpiles” shall not exceed 6 feet in height and no more than 3
stockpiles allowed for each site. Industrial production of mulch is not
permitted.
         b.   One accessory greenhouse for storage and outdoor protection of
plants is permitted. Greenhouse is not to be used for wholesale growing of
plants.
         c.   Associated equipment used by the landscape business such as
trailers, lawn mowers, single-axle trucks and tractors may be stored on the
site. Storage area that is well buffered from general public may include
draglines, bulldozers backhoes and other heavy equipment.
         d.   Storage areas of mulch and equipment shall be buffered with
fencing.
         e.   Outdoor display and storage of plants, bags of soil, mulch,
fertilizer, landscaping stone, landscape timbers, yard ornaments, and the like
shall not restrict parking areas. Bags of mulch, soil, and the like shall be
stacked in an orderly manner.
         f.   Bulk irrigation piping shall be stored indoors.
         g.   Other conditions imposed by the Board of Commissioners.
      (15)   Storage/warehousing and warehouse storage centers, including boat
trailers and long-term storage containers and mobile storage, provided the
following minimum conditions are met:
         a.   Site shall be buffered with wooden opaque fencing not to exceed
10 feet in height and also provide sound and site screening as visual and sound
buffer to residential homes in and around area of warehouse storage site.
         b.   Outdoor lighting plan shall be submitted with a site plan.
         c.   Hours of operation shall be included as part of CUP review.
         d.   Other reasonable conditions as may be imposed by the Board of
Commissioners.
      (16)   Village center project: a mixed use development situated on single
parcel of land under single ownership whereby an existing commercial building,
or new structure, may be developed and limited to retail sales units on the
lower level of the structure with residential units on upper level. Additional
residential units may be situated on the site. The following minimum
requirements shall be met:
         a.   Village center complex site must contain a minimum of 3 acres.
         b.   Approval of all supplementary local, state and federal permits.
Site must be adequate for siting commercial structure, parking, loading and
maneuvering space as required by Article VII. Two 10’ x 20’ parking spaces per
residential use shall be provided. Overflow parking, if applicable, shall be
directed to off peak use of commercial spaces.
         c.   Site screening - a vegetative or fence buffer not to exceed 10
feet in height. A 10-foot wide setback shall be required where the site abuts a
residential use or zone (not subject to 20-foot dimensional requirements in D.1
– Dimensional requirements).
         d.   Food service shall be limited to packaged items, such as snacks,
drinks and ice cream. Food service may be located outside the building on site
as a refreshment pavilion to serve patrons in the village complex. Food service
shall be exempt from parking as required for restaurants.
      (17)   Village general store with fuel pumps provided that no principal
or accessory building shall be located within 50 feet of a residential use,
accessory dwelling unit, or residential district and that such fuel pumps shall
be set back at least 25 feet from all rights-of-way. The following minimum
requirements shall be met for open canopy lighting to preserve the night time
environment :
         a.   The area directly below the canopy may be illuminated with a
minimum foot candle of 4 but not to exceed a foot-candle rating of 10.
         b.   Parking spaces provided under a canopy shall be 10’ x 20’ in
area.
      (18)   Spoil sites for maintenance dredging.
      (19)   Wind energy research facilities according to the standards of
Section
22-29.3. (Adopted 4-18-11)
      (20)   Temporary, portable concrete plant including silos, aggregate
bins, dust collector, hoppers, conveyors, batch mix, office and other accessory
equipment necessary to the operation of the portable concrete plant including
storage of aggregate and other materials necessary for the making of concrete.
         a.   The lot or parcel upon which the portable concrete plant is
located shall contain at least four (4) acres of contiguous non-wetland area.
         b.   The plant and all accessory equipment shall be mobile and may be
not permanently attached to the property. The equipment may be temporarily
secured to the property for safety reason but must be removed upon the
expiration of the conditional use permit.
         c.   Notwithstanding any other provision of the Zoning Ordinance, the
portable concrete plant when erected shall not exceed 60 feet in height.
         d.   The concrete plant and storage of aggregate and other materials
shall be at least twenty-five (25) feet from any property line and there shall
be wooden opaque fence no less than ten (10) feet high between the plant and
any residence or residential zone.
         e.   The concrete plant shall include a dust collection system which
collects dust at the load out point and the particulate that is collected is
recycled into the system.
         f.   All aggregate stored on the site shall be kept moist at all times
to prevent dust.
         g.   All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with glare
directed on-site and away from any adjoining properties and streets.
         h.   No more than eight (8) trucks used for the transport of concrete
may be parked overnight on the property.
         i.   There shall be no concrete transport trucks that enter or exit
the site between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:30 a.m. and 2:00 p.m. to 3:30 p.m.
on any day public schools in Dare County are in session.
         j.   The concrete plant shall be operated in accordance with all
requirements of the North Carolina Department of Transportation and any other
regulatory body.
         k.   This special use permit shall remain in effect for a period of 39
months. This 39-month period shall commence on the date identified by NC
Department of Transportation in the notice to proceed issued by NCDOT to the
bridge contractor. Upon the showing of good cause, the Dare County Board of
Commissioners may extend the permit for up to 180 additional days. Good cause
shall mean unavoidable conditions or events necessitating the continued
operation of the plant for the purpose for which it was originally installed.
         l.   Upon expiration of the special use permit, operation of the
concrete plant shall cease and the concrete plant and all accessory equipment
and materials shall be removed from the site and the site returned to its
original condition within thirty (30) days.
         m.   A performance bond, satisfactory to Dare County, to be used for
removal and reclamation activities shall be established by the permittee at the
time a site specific development plan and conditional use permit for a
temporary portable concrete plant is authorized by Dare County. The bond shall
be in the amount of $20,000 shall be issued to Dare County to be used in the
event the permittee does not remove all equipment from the site and restore the
site to its original condition as provided above. If this amount is
insufficient to cover the cost of reclamation of the site, then the property
owner shall be held accountable for the additional amount and a lien shall be
placed on the site for any amount over the $20,000 bond amount that is incurred
by Dare County in the reclamation of the site. The bond shall remain in place
until released by Dare County upon certification by Dare County of compliance
with the conditions of this permit. Dare County shall be authorized to use the
bond to cover all costs and expenses of removal, including but not limited to
all legal fees or other costs or expenses associated with enforcement of the
provisions of the conditional use permit. This bond shall be forfeited if the
concrete plant, all equipment, components and accessories of the concrete plant
have not been removed from the site and the site restored to its pre-plant
conditions within the time required by this conditional use permit. In lieu of
a bond, permittee may post a cash bond with Dare County to be held for the
purposes set forth above. (Adopted 11-19-2012)
      (21)   Workforce housing units - special use review if two or more WHU
units subject to provisions of Section
22-58.7.
      (22)   Educational housing projects subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.8.
      (23)   special use subdivisions subject to the provisions of Section
22-58.9.
   (d)   Dimensional requirements for residential uses:
      (1)   Minimum lot size:
         a.   Single-family lots with accessory dwelling units and accessory
commercial structures used in association with a single–family use shall be of
sufficient size to meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental
Health Department and to provide adequate setbacks for the single-family
structure, accessory dwelling unit and all other accessory use structures.
            Existing lots – All lots that were subdivide and recorded before
June 5, 2006 shall meet the approval of the Dare County Environmental Health
Department for well and on-site wastewater systems. The setbacks and lot
coverage standards of Section
22-27.18 shall apply to lots recorded June 5, 2006.
          b.   Newly platted lots -- For those lots subdivided and recorded
after June 5, 2006:
            Single family lots:
               15,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a central water supply.
               20,000 square feet of soils not classified as coastal wetlands
for lots connected to a private well.
         (c)   Duplex lots if served by a private well regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 20,000 square feet.
            Duplex lots if served by central water regardless of wastewater
disposal method: 15,000 square feet. (Amended 10-15-2018)
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet at building setback line.
      (3)   Minimum front yard: 25 feet.
      (4)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (5)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth. Zero line
setback for waterfront lots.
      (6)   Lot coverage: 30% as defined in Section
22-2. Lot coverage of 50% may be authorized for those sites with an accessory
dwelling unit and/or a traditional village business.
      (7)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principalroof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of roof on the structure.
   (e)   Dimensional requirements for individual commercial use on separate lot
or parcel that is not in conjunction with principal residential use:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: Commercial lots need to be of sufficient size to
meet the requirements of the Dare County Environmental Health Department and to
provide adequate siting for structures, parking, loading and maneuvering space
according to Section
22-56. Also, a visual buffer of vegetation of fencing and a 20-foot wide
setback is required when an individual commercial use abuts a residential use
or residential zone. All outdoor lighting shall be low profile, shielded with
glare directed on site and away from all adjoining properties and streets.
      (2)   Minimum front yard: 15 feet.
      (3)   Minimum side yard: 10 feet; an additional 5-foot side setback for
corner lots adjacent to a street. Lots less than 75 feet in width shall have an
8-foot setback and an additional 5-foot setback for corner lots adjacent to a
street.
      (4)   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet maximum, or 20% of lot depth for
interior lots. Zero line setback for waterfront lots.
      (5)   Lot coverage: 60% as defined in Section
22-2.
      (6)   Building height: 40 feet measured from 8 feet NAVD 1988 to the
highest elevation of any feature of the structure or portion of the roof
measured from the approximate center of the structure. For those properties
where the natural grade exceeds 8 feet NAVD, building height shall be measured
from the highest adjacent grade to the proposed structural footprint. Natural
grade for calculation of the 40 feet building limit is defined as (1) natural
ground elevation before any land disturbing activities; (2) unnatural ground
elevation created by the placement of fill on a site before March 24, 2006; or
(3) the re-grading of natural topographic conditions in preparation of
construction activities. Overall height shall be measured from the approximate
center of the structure to the highest elevation of the structure. Chimneys,
lightning rods, weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof
appurtenances shall not be considered the highest portion of the roof. The
pitch of the principal roof shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is
defined as the largest section of the roof on the structure.
      (7)   Maximum commercial building size: 10,000 square feet of heated
space excluding decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Non-heated space
shall not exceed 20,000 square feet of area. The total building size shall not
exceed 30,000 square feet based on these heated/non-heated square footage
limitations. Hotels, motels, churches, fire stations, schools and other public
buildings are excluded from this building size limitation.
      (8)   Density limitations for motels, hotels, and similar seasonal
lodging structures:
         a.   Structures on a lot or tract that has no soils classified as
wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 10 rental rooms
per acre.
         b.   Structures on a lot or tract that has between .01% and 19.9% of
its soils classified as wetlands, coastal marsh, or section 404 jurisdictional
soils: 8 rental rooms per acre.
         c.   Structures on a lot or tract that has more than 20% of its soils
classified as wetlands, coastal marsh or section 404 jurisdictional soils: 6
rental rooms per acre.
   (f)   Non-conforming uses and non-conforming structures: The standards of
Section
22-27.19 shall apply to this district.
   (g)   Performance standards and other information: The standards of Section
22-27.20 shall apply to this district.
   (h)   The sections contained in Articles I, Article III, Article VII,
Article VIII, and Article IX of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall apply to
this district. (Adopted by the DCBC on June 5, 2006; amended 2-20-2017; amended
11-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-27.17 - WANCHESE SEAFOOD INDUSTRIAL PARK (WSIP)
   (a)   Intent and purpose: The Wanchese Seafood Industrial Park, hereinafter
referred to as “Park,” is owned by the State of North Carolina, under the
division of the North Carolina Department of Commerce, and governed by the
North Carolina Seafood Industrial Park Authority, hereinafter referred to as
“Authority” created in l979 by G.S. 113-315.28-29. The Park opened in l981.
Park lands include 53 acres and an l5-acre boat basin and a wastewater
treatment system. Entrance to the Park is by Harbor Road from Highway NC 345.
      The Wanchese Seafood Industrial Park) Zoning District (WSIP) is
established for the continuation of the existing general maritime and marine-
related uses, industries and activities and to promote future development and
activities within the boundaries of the Park, as governed by the Authority.
Land uses in the Park are regulated and created by the Authority, which is
authorized and empowered to by the State of North Carolina to acquire,
construct, maintain, equip and operate any wharves, docks, piers, warehouses
and other structures, and any and all facilities needful for the convenient use
of the same in the aid of commerce within the Park.
      The Authority is authorized to make such reasonable rules, regulations
and adopt such additional ordinances with respect to the uses of streets,
alleys, driveways and to establish parking areas on the properties of the
seafood industrial park. Stormwater management within the Park is regulated by
the North Carolina Division of Water Quality. A blanket stormwater permit
issued to the Park by the North Carolina Division of Water Quality governs lot
coverage in the Park. The water quality permit is updated whenever any
additional impervious surface is added.
      Therefore, it is determined by the County of Dare that the North Carolina
Seafood Industrial Park Authority shall be authorized to continue to meet its
statute mandates to manage development within the Park, while ensuring proper
environmental stewardship until such time that the Park lands are transferred
into a private entity.
   (b)   Permitted uses: The following uses shall be permitted by right to
promote, enhance and offer business opportunities for marine related business
in northeastern North Carolina. A building permit can be secured from the Dare
County Building Inspector upon approval of all supplementary local, state and
federal permits, if applicable.
      (1)   Offices, including such uses as:
         a.   Business.
         b.   Financial, such as banking.
         c.   Governmental.
         d.   Medical.
      (2)   Commercial uses:
         a.   Automobile, trucks, tractor-trailer and recreation vehicle sales,
service and repairs.
         b.   Boat building and manufacturing facilities.
         c.   Boat yards, repair, including haul out services.
         d.   Boat and motor display, sales and service.
         e.   Boats – dry dock storage.
         f.   Boat trailer storage – leased space to store trailers while
repaired.    
         g.   Boarding of horses and other equestrian associated uses.
         h.   Box making facilities.
         i.   Broadcasting, radio, TV and film production studios and services.
         j.   Byproduct processing.
         k.   Cabinet making, woodworking facilities.
         l.   Central water system and supply.
         m.   Cold storage, ice manufacturing and freezer.
         n.   Container storage space for boat gear on docks in conjunction
with marina or boat docks.
         o.   Communication towers.
         p.   Contractors’ offices, supplies and services, including
construction materials.
         q.   Prefabricated material related to building and septic tank
industry.
         r.   Commercial fishing nets, sales, service and storage.
         s.   Crab shedding operations, associated equipment and crab pot
storage.
         t.   Customary accessories to commercial, industrial and marine relate
activities.
         u.   Dry cleaning and laundromats.
         v.   Dry goods.
         w.   Electrical equipment, sales and service.
         x.   Electronic equipment, sales and service.
         y.   Fish houses, including packing, processing, sales, storage,
loading/unloading trawlers.
         z.   Fishing - party fishing excursions and associated services.
         aa.   Food services carry- out and mobile.
         bb.   Fuel storage, including diesel sales and service.
         cc.   Hardware supplies.
         dd.   Heating and air, sales, service.
         ee.   Machine shop.
         ff.   Marinas, marina supplies, including rigging, netting, and all
associated activities.   
         gg.   Marine hardware sales shop services.
         hh.   Paint shed and or shop facilities to service all marine related
products.
         ii.   Packaging materials sales.
         jj.   Piers.
         kk.   Plumbing supplies, sales and service.
         ll.   Post office facilities.
         mm.   Refrigeration sales and service.
         nn.   Restaurants.
         oo.   Retail shops, including, but not limited to gifts and imports.
         pp.   Seafood processing, canning, freezing, packing, including,
wholesale /retail sales.
         qq.   Schools, commercial limited to sailing/marine oriented outdoor
lifestyle.
         rr.   Spoil maintenance areas.
         ss.   Taxidermist, associated supplies, production and storage.
         tt.   Truck terminals.
         uu.   Upholstery services.
         vv.   Vessel refueling.
         ww.   Vessels haul out and repair.
         xx.   Village general store and marina store with marine fuel service
facilities.
         yy.   Warehousing – Park related .
         zz.   Wastewater treatment facilities.
         aaa.   Welding shop and steel fabrication.
         bbb.   Wharves.
      (3)   Residential use - Residential use of any lands and/or buildings in
the Wanchese Seafood Industrial Park is prohibited, unless authorized by the
State of North Carolina under the management of the North Carolina Industrial
Seafood Park Authority. (Adopted by the DCBC on
SECTION 22-27.18 - DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS FOR SECTIONS 22-27.7 TO 22-27.17
   Setbacks and lot coverage standards shall be as below:
   (a)   Lots with 5,000 square feet or less:
      (1)   Front yard setback – 15 feet or more so as to bring any structure
into conformity with the front yard alignment of existing structures on the
same side of the street and within 500 linear feet of the closest side yard
property line.
      (2)   Side yard setback – 5 feet. For corner lots, the side yard setback
shall be 7 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
      (3)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet.    
      (4)   Lot coverage: 60% of the lot square footage but not to exceed a
maximum of 2,500 square feet.
      (5)   Building height: 40 feet to the highest elevation of any feature of
the structure or portion of the roof measured from the base flood elevation,
from natural ground elevation if natural ground elevation exceeds the base
flood elevation, or from an unnatural ground elevation created by placement of
fill material on a site on or before March 24, 2006. Chimneys, lightning rods,
weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be
considered the highest portion of the roof. The pitch of the principal roof
shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is defined as the largest section of
the roof on the structure.
   (b)   Lots with 5,001 square feet to 10,000 square feet:
      (1)   Front yard setback: 20 feet or more so as to bring any structure
into conformity with the front yard alignment of existing structures on the
same side of the street and within 500 linear feet of the closest side yard
property line.   
      (2)   Side yard setback: 8 feet. For corner lots, 10 feet on the side of
the lot that abuts the street.
      (3)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet.
      (4)   Lot coverage: 50% of the lot square footage but not to exceed a
maximum of 4,000 square feet.
      (5)   Building height: 40 feet to the highest elevation of any feature of
the structure or portion of the roof measured from the base flood elevation,
from natural ground elevation if natural ground elevation exceeds the base
flood elevation, or from an unnatural ground elevation created by placement of
fill material on a site on or before March 24, 2006. Chimneys, lightning rods,
weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be
considered the highest portion of the roof. The pitch of the principal roof
shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is defined as the largest section of
the roof on the structure.
   (c)   Lots with 10,001 – 14,999 square feet:
      (1)   Front yard setback: 25 feet or more so as to bring any structure
into conformity with the front yard alignment of existing structures on the
same side of the street and within 500 linear feet of the closest side yard
property line.   
      (2)   Side yard setback: 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard setback
is 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
      (3)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet.
      (4)   Lot coverage: 40% of the lot square footage but not to exceed a
maximum of 4,500 square feet of area.
      (5)   Building height: 40 feet to the highest elevation of any feature of
the structure or portion of the roof measured from the base flood elevation,
from natural ground elevation if natural ground elevation exceeds the base
flood elevation, or from an unnatural ground elevation created by placement of
fill material on a site on or before March 24, 2006. Chimneys, lightning rods,
weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be
considered the highest portion of the roof. The pitch of the principal roof
shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is defined as the largest section of
the roof on the structure.
   (d)   Lots with 15,000 to 19,000 square feet:
      (1)   Front yard setback: 25 feet or more so as to bring any structure
into conformity with the front yard alignment of existing structures on the
same side of the street and within 500 linear feet of the closest side yard
property line.
      (2)   Side yard setback: 10 feet. For corner lots, the side yard setback
is 15 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
      (3)   Rear yard setback: 20 feet .
      (4)   Lot coverage: 30% of the lot square footage.
      (5)   Building height: 40 feet to the highest elevation of any feature of
the structure or portion of the roof measured from the base flood elevation,
from natural ground elevation if natural ground elevation exceeds the base
flood elevation, or from an unnatural ground elevation created by placement of
fill material on a site on or before March 24, 2006. Chimneys, lightning rods,
weather vanes, wind gauges, and other similar roof appurtenances shall not be
considered the highest portion of the roof. The pitch of the principal roof
shall be no less than 4/12. Principal roof is defined as the largest section of
the roof on the structure.
   (e)   Lots of record on November 20, 1975 with less than 50 feet of lot
width at the building setback line shall have a minimum side yard setback of 5
feet. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; Amended by the DCBC on June 5,
2006)
SECTION 22-27.19 - NON-CONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
   These standards for non-conforming uses and structures shall apply to those
areas zoned Wanchese Village Residential (VR); Wanchese Waterfront Residential
(WR-1); Baumtown residential (BT); Wanchese Residential Business (RB); Wanchese
Neighborhood Commercial (NC); Historic Mill Landing Marine (HML); Wanchese
Village Commercial (WVC); Harbor Road Marine Commercial (MC-2); Wanchese Wharf
Marine Commercial (MC-1); Highway 345 Business ( Hwy 345) and the Wanchese
Seafood Industrial Park (WSIP).
   1.   Any district, in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings, including accessory dwelling
units, may be erected on a single lot of record on March 24, 2006.
   2.   Any district in which village commercial, neighborhood commercial,
commercial, or marine commercial uses are permitted, a commercial use and
customary accessory building , including a traditional village business, may be
erected on any single lot of record on (insert date of adoption).
   3.   Non-conforming uses of land: Where a lawful use of land exists which
would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by the Wanchese zoning
districts, the use may continue so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
provided that:
      a.   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged, increased, or extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on March 24, 2006.
      b.   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for a period of 10
consecutive months for any reason, any subsequent use of the land shall conform
to the regulations specified in the applicable zoning district for the land.
      c.   No such non-conforming uses shall be moved in whole or in part to
any portion of the lot or parcel than previously occupied.
   4.   Non-conforming uses of buildings or of buildings and premises in
combination:
      a.   Repair and maintenance — a structure existing prior to March 24,
2006 that does not conform to the standards of the Wanchese zoning districts
shall be considered a “grandfathered” (non-conforming) structure. In the event
that a “grandfathered” (non-conforming) structure requires repairs or
maintenance for general upkeep and safety, Section
22-51(c) shall not apply. Work may be done on “grandfathered” (non-conforming)
structures for ordinary repairs and safety, provided the floor area shall not
be increased.
      b.   Total loss of non-conforming structure: In the event that a
“grandfathered” (non-conforming) structure is destroyed or damaged beyond its
value, the structure may be reconstructed to its former status, but no greater
than before. The standards of Section
22-49(b) to (d) do not apply to the Wanchese zoning districts.
      c.   Relocation of a structure: In the case when an older structure is
damaged or destroyed beyond its value, every measure shall be taken to place
the new structure, if possible, within current setback lines, or a portion
thereof. If relocation of the structure to fit within the setback lines is not
possible, then the structure may be reconstructed to its former status, but no
greater.
      d.   Exception for relocation of structure: In the case when a structure
previously encroached on NCDOT right-of-way, written notification from NCDOT
shall be required and presented to the Dare County Planning Department before
reconstruction. This provision includes residential homes, boathouses, fish
houses, manufacturing buildings, docks, piers, wharves and other similar
commercial structures and customary use structures.
      e.   Other state or federal regulations beyond the scope of the Dare
County Zoning Ordinance may affect the reconstruction of non-conforming
structures. (Adopted by the DCBC on March 24, 2006; Amended by the DCBC on June
5, 2006)
SECTION 22-27.20 - PERFORMANCE STANDARDS AND OTHER INFORMATION
   These standards shall apply to those areas zoned Wanchese Village
Residential (VR); Wanchese Waterfront Residential (WR-1); Baumtown residential
(BT); Wanchese Residential Business (RB); Wanchese Neighborhood Commercial
(NC); Historic Mill Landing Marine (HML); Wanchese Village Commercial (WVC);
Harbor Road Marine Commercial (MC-2); Wanchese Wharf Marine Commercial (MC-1);
Highway 345 Business (Hwy 345) and the Wanchese Seafood Industrial Park (WSIP).
   1.   A building permit for a principal use structure and/or commercial
accessory use structure cannot be issued if the dimensional requirements are
not met.
   2.   An application for a building permit to erect an accessory commercial
structure on a lot occupied by a single family residence must be accompanied by
building plans and a blue line survey prepared by a licensed North Carolina
registered land surveyor or engineer, showing the actual dimensions and shape
of the lot, exact size and location of any existing and/or proposed structure
(s), in addition, that said structure(s) conforms to the dimensional standards,
setbacks, and lot coverage standards for this zoning district.
   3.   Maximum gross commercial building size shall not exceed 10,000 square
feet excluding decks, porches, and other non-heated space. Maximum gross
commercial building size does not apply to hotels and motels, churches, schools
and other public buildings.
   4.   Accessory building setbacks: sheds, garages, pools, sheds, storage
sheds for nets may be located 5-foot setback from the side and rear property
lines. Accessory buildings shall be included in the lot coverage calculations.
Setbacks for accessory dwelling units and traditional village business are
found in the individual district listing for these uses.
   5.   All new construction after March 24, 2006 shall comply with the
dimensional requirements set out in the applicable Wanchese zoning district.
Any proposed addition or alteration to an existing use or structure shall
conform to those guidelines in effect at the time permit application is made
for such addition or alteration.
   6.   Fill material: No fill material shall be placed on the side setback
areas unless the fill lies under a line with a vertical to horizontal slope 1
to 3 or less, as measured from the original grade on the side property line and
certified by a North Carolina licensed surveyor or engineer.
   7.   Undeveloped lots shall not be used for long-term storage or placement
of unoccupied mobile homes, travel trailers and recreational vehicles, utility
trailers, and container-type trailers used for transporting goods when affixed
to a truck or tractor-trailer truck, trash, debris, and/or open storage of
commercial materials. Long- term shall be considered more than 30 consecutive
days. This does not include commercial lots.
   8.   Standards for property severed by a street:
      a.   For those properties that are in single ownership and divided by a
street, roadway, cart path, or watercourse, properties shall be considered 2
separate parcels for zoning and building purposes.
      b.   Any permitted or special use of any of the Wanchese zoning districts
may be located on either of the 2 parcels only if the applicable dimensional
standards of this district can be met on each of the individual parcels.
      c.   Building permits for principal use structures shall not be issued if
the dimensional standards cannot be met on either parcel independent of the
other parcel. When it has been determined that a principal use cannot be
constructed on any lot in this district due to the dimensional standards,
setbacks, or lot coverage limitations, an accessory use or accessory building
may be permitted on such lot provided the accessory use or accessory building
can meet the dimensional standards for accessory uses or accessory buildings.
      d.   These standards do not apply to structures existing prior to March
24, 2006 and are not intended to influence decisions of other federal or state
permits such as CAMA, FEMA, or environmental health permits.
   9.   Signage on commercial sites shall be limited to 36 square feet of sign
area. The provisions of Chapter 158 of the Dare County Code of Ordinances shall
apply for other signs on non-commercial properties. (Adopted by the DCBC on
March 24, 2006; Amended by the DCBC on June 5, 2006)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE III. EXCEPTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS GENERALLY
SECTION 22-28 - WALLS AND FENCES
The setback requirements of this chapter shall not prohibit any necessary
retaining wall or prohibit any wall or fence. However, within any residential
district no wall or fence shall exceed six feet in height, and within any
commercial or industrial district no fence shall exceed 10 feet in height. (11-
20-75, art. 3, 3.10; 9-7-76,1)
SECTION 22-28.1 - MOTORIZED OFF-ROAD RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT
   The following activities shall be permitted in all zoned areas of
unincorporated Dare County:
   1.   The operation of motorized off- road recreational equipment, such as
motorcycles, go-karts and all-terrain vehicles for noncommercial purposes
subject to the following conditions:
      a.   The operation of such recreational equipment shall be permitted
during the hours of 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday. No such
equipment shall be operated on Sundays. During daylight savings time, 4:00 p.m.
to 8:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday. No such equipment shall be operated on
Sundays.
      b.   The motor of any motorized off-road recreational equipment operated
under this section shall not exceed 100 cubic centimeters (100cc) per device as
determined by the manufacturer specifications.
      c.   Exhaust systems of motorized off-road recreational equipment shall
not be altered or modified with after-market parts.
      d.   No more than 4 recreational devices shall be operated simultaneously
on any parcel.
      e.   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to apply to the
operation of lawn maintenance equipment.
      f.   In instances where deed restrictions, covenants or other type of
contractual use restrictions are associated with a property, this section shall
not be interpreted to cancel, modify or supercede such restrictions.
   2.   These standards for motorized off- road recreational equipment shall
not apply to those areas of unincorporated Dare County that are zoned MP-1.
(Adopted by the Board of Commissioners on 4-20-2009) (Condition a revised by
the Board of Commissioners on 9-21-2009)
SECTION 22-28.2 - BONA FIDE FARMING
   1.   The regulations of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall not apply to
property used for bona fide farming purposes as defined in the North Carolina
General Statutes and Section
22-2 of this chapter. For purposes of determining whether a property is being
used for bona fide farm purposes, any of the following shall constitute
evidence that the property is being used for bona fide farm purposes:
      a.   A farm sales tax exemption certificate issued by the North Carolina
Department of Revenue.
      b.   A copy of the property tax listing showing that the property is
eligible for participation in the present use value program pursuant to G.S.
105-277.3
      c.   A copy of the farm owner's or operator's Schedule F from the owner's
or operator's most recent federal income tax return.
      d.   A forest management plan.
   2.   Additionally, a building or structure that is used for agritourism is a
bona fide farm purpose. Agritourism means any activity carried out on a farm or
ranch that allows members of the general public, for recreational,
entertainment, or educational purposes, to view or enjoy rural activities,
including farming, ranching, historic, cultural, harvest-your-own activities,
or natural activities and attractions. A building or structure used for
agritourism includes any building or structure used for public or private
events, including, but not limited to, weddings, receptions, meetings,
demonstrations of farm activities, meals and other events that are taking place
on the farm because of its farm or rural setting.
   3.   Failure to maintain the requirements of this section for a period of 3
years after the date the building or structure was originally classified as a
bona fide farm purpose shall subject the building or structure to the
applicable zoning and development regulations for the property.
   4.   The Dare County Building Inspector shall determine the applicability of
the North Carolina Residential Code and Building Code for any structure or
building to be located on property exempted as a bona fide farm.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-28.3 - FAMILY CARE HOMES
A family care home as defined in Section
22-2 of this chapter shall be deemed a residential use of property for zoning
purposes and shall be permitted in all zoning districts in unincorporated Dare
County. Such uses shall be subject to administrative zoning review and approval
procedures for detached residential structures by the Planning Director and
Building Inspector. The setbacks, parking, and other provisions of the
applicable zoning district shall apply. No family care home shall be located
within 1/2 mile radius of an existing family care home.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-28.4 - SETBACKS FOR SWIMMING POOLS AND OTHER ACCESSORY USES
Accessory uses (buildings and structures) may be located within 5 feet of any
side or rear property line unless otherwise prohibited by the applicable zoning
district. All components of a swimming pool including the pool apron must
comply with the 5 feet of separation from the side or rear property line. In
order to qualify for this setback, the accessory use cannot be attached to the
principal use structure by a fence, a roof, or any other structural component
of the principal use structure. For swimming pools to qualify for this reduced
setback, the pool barrier required by the North Carolina Building Code cannot
utilize any portion of the principal use structure as part of the pool barrier
or utilize any piling or other foundation component as part of the pool
barrier. Stairways from the principal use structure cannot terminate inside the
perimeter of the pool barrier on any concrete area or deck around the pool.
Swimming pools located within the principal use setbacks may utilize portions
of the principal use structure as part of the pool barrier. The application of
the reduced side or rear yard setbacks shall be authorized by the Planning
Director or other Planning Department staff based upon a review of the proposed
layout of the accessory use in relation to the principal use structure.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-29 - VARIANCES AS TO HEIGHT LIMITS
   a.   In zoned areas of the County not affected by airport zoning enacted
under G.S. Ch. 63, the Board of Adjustment may vary the height limits of this
chapter for a church spire, belfry, cupola and dome or ornamental tower not
intended for human occupancy, monument, water tower, meteorological data tower,
observation tower, transmission tower, chimney, smokestack, conveyor, flagpole,
radio or television tower, mast or aerial, parapet wall not extended more than
four feet above the roof line of the building and necessary mechanical
appurtenances; provided, that such variances will be in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this chapter and will not be injurious to the
neighborhood or otherwise detrimental to the public welfare. (11-20-75, art. 3,
3.11)
   A meteorological data tower shall meet all of the following criteria:
      1.   The tower shall be temporary in nature;
      2.   The tower shall be permitted for a time period not to exceed 18
months in duration from the date the variance is granted;
      3.   The tower shall be utilized solely for the purpose of gathering
meteorological data; and
      4.   The tower shall not be located closer than 200 feet to any
residential structure. (Amendment adopted on 1-5-2009)
   b.   In residentially zoned areas of the County not affected by airport
zoning enacted under G.S. Ch. 63, the Board of Adjustment may permit exceptions
to the height limits of this chapter for a church spire belfry, monument, water
tower, observation tower, meteorological data tower, transmission towers,
chimney, smokestack, conveyor, flagpole, radio or television tower, mast or
aerial, parapet wall not extended more than four feet above the roof line of
the building and necessary mechanical appurtenances; provided that such
exceptions will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter and will not be injurious to the neighborhood or otherwise detrimental
to the public welfare. (6-22-92)
   A meteorological data tower shall meet all of the following criteria:
      1.   The tower shall be temporary in nature;
      2.   The tower shall be permitted for a time period not to exceed 18
months in duration from the date the variance is granted;
      3.   The tower shall be utilized solely for the purpose of gathering
meteorological data; and
      4.   The tower shall not be located closer than 200 feet to any
residential structure. (Amendment adopted on 1-5-2009)
   c.   In a residential zoning district, the building height limit shall not
apply to those architectural features known as cupolas and observation towers
provided that the cupola or observation tower meets all of the following
specifications:
      1.   The floor area of the cupola or observation tower is no greater than
64 square feet gross area, including the stairwell.
      2.   The peak of the observation tower or the highest portion of the
cupola shall not exceed more than 5 feet above the building height limit of the
applicable zoning district. (12-21-95)
22-29.1 - FAMILY CHILD CARE HOMES PROCEDURES
   1.   All abutting property owners of the proposed family child care home
site shall be notified in writing by the Planning Department that a special use
permit application has been filed.
   2.   Notice procedures of Section
22-72 shall be followed.
   3.   The applicant shall provide documentation that all supplementary permit
registration and/or license applications have been submitted to the appropriate
review agencies at the time the special use permit application is submitted for
review. Upon receipt of all necessary supplementary permits and licenses, the
Planning staff shall issue the family child care home permit. Failure to
deliver those necessary supplementary permits and/or licenses within 180 days
of Dare County approval shall render the county approval null and void.
   4.   The applicant shall provide affidavits attesting to the applicant’s
occupancy of the proposed family child care home.
   5.   The applicant shall submit a site plan depicting the proposed site and
all associated improvements. The staff shall review the site plan for
compliance with the regulatory guidelines of the zoning district where the
family child care home is proposed.
   6.   A family child care home shall not be authorized if another family
child care home is in operation within a 500-foot radius of the applicant’s
proposed location.
   7.   A family child care home approval shall be valid for a period not to
exceed 36 months. This approval period shall be based on the date the family
child care home permit is released by the Planning Department upon receipt of
all necessary state licenses. The family child care home operator shall apply
for renewal of the family child care home permit by written request to the Dare
County Planning Director. Such request shall be received a minimum of 30 days
prior to the expiration of the approval period. There shall be no limit on the
number of times the approval period may be renewed. The renewal request shall
be approved by the Planning Director if there are no outstanding violations of
the special use permit. If it is the desire of the family child care home
operator to discontinue operations of the family child care home, then written
notice shall be provided to the Dare County Planning Director at any time.
   8.   Zoning officials shall be allowed to inspect the family child care home
periodically to check for compliance with all permit conditions and applicable
zoning regulations. If the zoning official finds any violations, the applicant
shall be notified in writing of the violations and be granted 30 days in which
to correct the violations. If after 30 days, the applicant does not correct the
cited violations, notice shall be affixed to the site or structure indicating
the initiation of revocation procedures. The family child care home permit may
be reinstated upon correction of any violations. (Adopted 11-5-90; amended 5-
16-11; amended 5-16-2011)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-29.2 - WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES (ADOPTED BY THE DCBC
ON 6-21-99)
   (a)   Intent: The purpose of this chapter is to establish general guidelines
for the siting of wireless telecommunications facilities, including
telecommunications support structures and towers. The goals of this chapter are
to: (i) encourage the location of telecommunication support structures in non-
residential/non-historical areas and minimize the total number of
telecommunication support structures throughout the community; (ii) enhance the
ability of the providers of telecommunications services to provide such
services to the community quickly, effectively and efficiently; (iii) strongly
encourage the joint use of new and existing wireless telecommunication sites;
(iv) encourage the location of telecommunications support structures, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
(v) encourage the location of telecommunications support structures in
configurations that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the such facilities;
and (vi) whenever possible, prioritize space on telecommunications support
structures for public purpose use.
   (b)   Review and approval: All new and substantial modification of a
telecommunications support structure development shall be subject to the
following review and approval procedures:
      1.   Board of Commissioners Approval as special uses in the applicable
zoning district:
         a.   Freestanding towers up to 200 feet in maximum height in the
zoning districts where permitted.
         a.   Freestanding towers over 200 feet in maximum height in the zoning
districts where permitted.
      3.   Administrative Review
         a.   Stealth antennae.
         b.   Co-location providers on an existing tower where application for
co-location would result in tower height of less than 200 feet of maximum
height.
         c.   Addition of antenna to existing building, utility pole, water
tower, WTS tower, or similar utility structure.
         d.   DAS if an addition to existing utility pole, water tower, WTS
tower or similar utility structure. Any new tower associated with the DAS shall
be subject to appropriate review procedures based on its height. (Adopted on 2-
1-16)
   (c)   Application Procedures and Site Plan Requirements: Any request for
construction of a new wireless support structure (WSS), replacement WSS or
substantially modified WSS shall include the following information and
materials:
      1.   The identified search ring for the proposed WSS.
      2.   Documentation that no existing WSS can reasonably be used instead of
construction of a new WSS.
      3.   Documentation that residential, historic, and designated scenic
areas cannot be served from outside of the search ring.
      4.   Documentation that the height of the proposed WSS is necessary to
provide the applicant's service.
      5.   Documentation evaluating the reasonable feasibility of collocating
new antennas and equipment on an existing WSS within the applicant's search
ring. Collocation on an existing WSS is not reasonably feasible if collocation
is technically or commercially impractical or the owner of the existing WSS is
unwilling to enter into a contract for such use at fair market value.
      6.   A blue line survey prepared by a licensed North Carolina surveyor
showing the location of all existing property lines and improvements within a
1,000 foot radius of the proposed WSS site and all proposed improvements
including the WSS and all accessory structures and equipment. In addition, the
survey must detail all proposed vegetation removal activities including an
inventory of existing trees to be removed.
      7.   Drawings of all proposed WSS, antennae, and accessory structures and
equipment indicating elevations, height, colors, and design.
      8.   Documentation provided by the applicant that the proposed WSS and
all antennae and equipment comply with all applicable FCC regulations.
      9.   Documentation provided by the applicant that the proposed WSS,
antennae and equipment meet FAA aviation and navigation requirements. All
proposed improvements shall not restrict or interfere with air traffic or air
travel from or to any existing or proposed airport. Any lighting shall not
project onto any surrounding residential property. To the extent required by
the FAA, strobes shall be used for night-time lighting. Whenever strobes are
not required by the FAA, flashing beacons are the preferred type of lighting.
      10.   A copy of the approved National Environmental Policy Act of 1969
(NEPA) compliance report for the proposed WSS.
      11.   Documentation signed and sealed from a North Carolina licensed
engineer that the proposed WSS and associated equipment meets the structural
requirements of the North Carolina Building Code and the colocation
requirements of this section.
      12.    Inventory of Existing Sites: Each applicant for approval of a WSS
shall provide to the Planning Department an inventory of existing WSS that are
within the applicant's search ring of the proposed site, including specific
information about the location, height and design of each WSS and associated
equipment.
      13.   Evidence that the applicant has investigated the possibilities for
locating the proposed facilities on WSS, the use of stealth technology or
location in another zoning district where the WSS would be permitted as an
administratively approved use. Such evidence shall consist of:
         a.   Copies of letters sent to owners of all existing WSS within the
applicant's search ring requesting the following information:
            (1)   WSS height.
            (2)   Existing and planned users.
            (3)   If the proposed antenna cannot be accommodated on the
existing WSS, an assessment of whether the existing WSS could be structurally
strengthened.
         b.   A copy of all responses within 30 days from the mailing date of
the letter required by subsection 13.a.;
         c.   A summary explanation of why the applicant believes the proposed
facility cannot be located on an existing WSS.
         d.   A summary explanation of why the applicant believes that the use
of an alternative WSS is not possible.
         e.   A blue line survey prepared by a licensed NC surveyor showing the
location of all existing property lines and improvements within a 1,000 foot
radius of the proposed WSS and associated equipment. In addition, the survey
must detail all proposed vegetation removal activities including an inventory
of existing trees to be removed.
   (d)   Use Guidelines and Dimensional Requirements:
      1.   Principal or Accessory Use. WSS and antennas may be considered
either principal or accessory uses. A different existing use or an existing
structure on the same lot shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or
WSS on such lot. WSS that are constructed, and antennas that are installed, in
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance shall not be deemed to
constitute the expansion of a non-conforming use or structure.
      2.   In order to provide spatial separation and create visual block from
adjacent properties and streets, a buffer shall be installed around the outside
of all improvements on the site, including the WSS and guy anchors, any ground
buildings or equipment, and security fencing. Ground buildings located in a
residential district may be located outside the buffered area if they are
constructed so the exterior appearance of the building has the appearance of a
residential dwelling, including pitched roof and frame or brick veneer
construction. The WSS’s guy anchors may be screened or fenced separately in
order to comply with the requirements of this subsection.
      3.   The base of the WSS and each guy anchor shall be surrounded by a
security fence or wall at least eight (8) feet in height unless the tower and
all guy anchors are mounted entirely on a building over eight feet in height.
The WSS’s guy anchors may be screened or fenced separately in order to comply
with the requirements of this subsection.
      4.   No unenclosed outside storage shall be allowed on any
telecommunication facility site.
      5.   Accessory buildings shall not be used as an employment center for
any workers. This provision does not prohibit the periodic maintenance or
periodic monitoring of equipment and instruments.
      6.   The proposed WSS, antenna, or accessory structure and equipment
shall be placed in a location and in a manner that will minimize the visual
impact on the surrounding area.
      7.   No commercial advertising, company logo, or signage shall be allowed
on the WSS or its related facilities. However, signs shall be posted that list
a telephone number for the owner of the proposed tower and “No Trespassing”
information. This sign shall be located on the accessory building or fencing
and shall not exceed 4 square feet in area.
      8.   The proposed tower shall be setback from all publicly owned roads or
rights-of-way a distance equal to the tower height. If visible from any public
road or right-of-way, a landscape plan shall be submitted indicating how the
applicant proposes to screen any accessory structure or equipment from view.
      9.   Setbacks of the base of the tower from all adjacent property lines
shall be one foot for each foot of tower height. To encourage shared use of
towers, applications for towers which will operate with more than one user
immediately upon completion may have a 10% reduction in the required setbacks,
but in no case shall the setback be less than those required for the underlying
zoning district. To encourage the construction of monopole structures, monopole
towers may have a 20% reduction in the required setbacks. To encourage location
of WSS in forested areas with a minimum depth of sixty-five (65) feet, the WSS
may have a 20% reduction in the required setbacks. In no case shall the setback
be less than those required for the underlying zoning district. Said setback
reductions shall only be allowed upon a professional engineering certification
which states that the structure's construction will cause the WSS to crumble
inward so that in the event of collapse no damage to structures on adjacent
lots will result.
      10.   The proposed WSS shall be set back from all property lines a
distance equal to the proposed WSS’s fall zone as certified by a registered NC
engineer, plus 20 feet.
      11.   The proposed WSS shall be setback a distance equal to the WSS’s
height plus 50 feet from any residential structure.
      12.   Notice shall be provided to the Planning Department when the WSS is
placed out of service. Any WSS, antennae, accessory structure or equipment that
is not used for communication purposes for more than 120 days shall be
considered to be abandoned, and the owner shall remove the abandoned equipment
upon notice by the Planning Department. A time limit for the removal of the
abandoned WSS and equipment shall be established by the Planning Department in
the notice. To assure removal of any abandoned WSS, antennae, accessory
structure or equipment, a performance bond in the amount of the anticipated
removal costs shall be established by the owner with such costs determined by a
North Carolina registered engineer.
      13.   No WSS shall be located in the public trust waters of Dare County.
   (e)   Pre-existing WSS: Any WSS in existence on June 21, 2021 may continue
to operate. Nothing in this section shall require application and approval for
routine maintenance or limit the performance of routine maintenance on
telecommunications wireless support structures and facilities, including in-
kind replacement of wireless facilities as defined in this section. Routine
maintenance includes activities associated with regular and general upkeep of
transmission equipment, including the replacement of existing wireless
facilities with facilities of the same size. Substantial modifications of pre-
existing WSS shall be subject to the review and approval procedures of
subsection (a) of this section.
      1.   A site plan shall be submitted for any relocation or reconstruction
of a nonconforming WSS.
      2.   Reconstruction or replacement of pre-existing WSS on the same site
shall be subject to administrative approval if the height of the tower does not
exceed 15% of the height of WSS as it existed in 1999. The reconstructed WSS
shall comply with the setback requirements of this section if physically
possible or to the maximum extent possible. If compliance is not possible, then
the reconstructed WSS shall not increase the amount by which the setbacks are
non-conforming, other than increases necessitated solely by changes in the size
of the base supporting the reconstructed tower. Increases in height in excess
of 15% shall be subject to the review and approval procedures of subsection (a)
of this section based on the overall height of the proposed WSS to be
reconstructed. The reconstructed WSS shall comply with the setback requirements
of this section if physically possible or to the maximum extent possible. If
compliance is not possible, then the reconstructed WSS shall not increase the
amount by which the setbacks are non-conforming, other than increases
necessitated solely by changes in the size of the base supporting the
reconstructed tower.
      3.   If a pre-existing WSS is damaged beyond 50% of its replacement
value, a replacement WSS may be constructed on the same site but may not exceed
the height of the previous WSS and must be located on the site in compliance
with the setbacks requirements of this section to the maximum extent possible.
Replacement activities shall be subject to administrative review and approval
by the Planning Director.
WSS Format Preference: The following order of preference shall be used during
the review and approval of WSS development:
   1.   Stealth antenna.
   2.   Antenna located on existing WSS facilities, utility poles, water
towers, or similar utility structure.
   3.   Antenna attached to or mounted on an existing building or structure.
(single or co-location provider)
   4.   Free-standing WSS development designed and constructed with co-location
capability.
   5.   Free-standing WSS development designed and constructed for single-
provider use.
WSS development types permitted by zoning district***
                Antenna                                     Free-standin g
                located on an Antenna        Free-standing  tower with
                existing WSS, attached to an tower with     antenna
Zoning Stealth  utility pole, existing       antenna        designed for
       Antenn a water tower,  principal      capable of co- single
                or similar    building or    location       District
                utility       structure                     provider
                structure
                 Antenna                                     Free-standin g
                 located on an Antenna        Free-standing  tower with
                 existing WSS, attached to an tower with     antenna
Zoning  Stealth  utility pole, existing       antenna        designed for
        Antenn a water tower,  principal      capable of co- single
                 or similar    building or    location       District
                 utility       structure                     provider
                 structure
NH      P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
RS-1    P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
RS-6    P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
RS-8    P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
RS-10   P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
R-1     P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
R-2     P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
R-2A    P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
R-2B    P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
R-2H    P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
R2-AH   P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
SP-2    P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
R-3     P        P             P              Not Allowed    Not Allowed
R-4     P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
C-1     P        P             P              P              P
C-2     P        P             P              P              P
C-3     P        P             P              P              P
CS      P        P             P              P              P
SP-C    P        P             P              P              P
VC      P        P             P              P              P
VC-2    P        P             P              P              P
I-1     P        P             Not Allowed    P              P
SED-1   P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
S-1     P        P             P              P              P
MP-1    P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
C-PR    P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
BNH     P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
ELNH    P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
MH-A    P        See Section
                 22-23.2 MH-A
MH-B    P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
ELR     P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
ELVC    P        P             P              P              P
SNC     P        P             Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
VR      P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
WR-1    P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
BT      P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
RB      P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
NC      P        See Section
                 22-27.11 NC
HML     P        See Section
                 22-27.12 HML
WVC     P        See Section
                 22-27.13 WVC
MC-2    P        Not Allowed   Not Allowed    Not Allowed    Not Allowed
MC-1    P        See Section
                 22-27.15 MC-1
HWY34 5 P        P             P              P              P
WSIP    P        See Section
                 22-27.17
***See Section
22-29.2 (b) for review and approval procedures
 
(Amended 2-1-16)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-29.3 - WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (ADOPTED ON 4-18-11)
   The intent of these regulations is to provide for the construction and
operation of wind energy research sites in all areas of unincorporated Dare
County zoned for such uses, subject to reasonable conditions that will protect
the environment, public health, safety and welfare.
Definitions/Acronyms
Accessory use structure - A structure that is subordinate to the principal use
structure in both size and function.
Anenometer - A device which measures the wind speed and transmits wind speed
data to the controller.
Environmental assessment - A comprehensive evaluation of a proposed wind energy
facility and its potential environmental impacts on the local setting with an
emphasis on (avoiding) minimizing or mitigating adverse impacts.
Facility operator - The person or entity responsible for the day-to-day
operation and maintenance of the wind energy facility.
Facility owner - The person or entity having controlling or majority equity
interest in a wind energy facility including their respective successors and
assigns.
kW - Kilowatt.
MW - Megawatt.
Non-participating landowner - Any landowner not under agreement with the site
owner or site operator.
Occupied structure - A structure that is in use or occupied at the time permit
application is made.
Participating landowner - A landowner under lease or other property agreements
with the site owner or site operator.
Setback - An area of separation measured in terms of linear feet from the
center of the base of any wind energy device to the property line or right-of-
way or the nearest portion of any structure.
Shadow flicker - The visible flicker effect of rotating wind turbine blades
casting a shadow on the ground and nearby structures causing the repeating
pattern of light and shadow.
Tower - A monopole, free standing, or guyed structure that supports a wind
energy generator and other mechanical equipment.
Vertical axis wind turbine - A wind turbine that rotates on a vertical axis
with blades forming a spiral or helical shape.
Wind energy device - A device that is designed for use to capture and convert
wind into electricity such as wind turbines or other similar wind conversion
devices.
Wind energy facility, large - A wind energy conversion system consisting of one
or more wind turbine(s), a tower(s) and associated control or conversion
electronics, which has a total rated capacity of more than 100 kW.
Wind energy research sites - A site consisting of wind energy devices and
supporting structures that are constructed for research purposes and the study
of wind energy, equipment construction standards, and other meteorological data
used for wind energy generation.
Wind turbine - A wind energy conversion device that converts wind energy
through the use of a wind turbine generator and may include a nacelle, rotor,
tower, guy wires, and pad transformer.
Wind turbine height - The distance measured from natural grade at the center of
the tower to the highest point of the turbine rotor or tip of the turbine blade
when the blade reaches its highest elevation or the highest point of the tower
on vertical axis wind turbine.
2021 S-13
A.    Wind Energy Research Facilities
Land-based wind energy turbines may be located in unincorporated Dare County in
those zoning districts that are zoned for such use. The turbines may be on
publicly-owned land or privately owned land and must be associated with a
public university research agency.
Detailed plans for the site shall be submitted to the Dare County Board of
Commissioners for review as a special use according to the provisions of
Section
22-65 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance and may be approved only if the
following conditions are met:
1.   The site will be used to study wind energy generation and production. The
site may be privately-owned but shall be affiliated with a State of North
Carolina university or college. A written agreement between the private sector
and the university shall be provided to Dare County that outlines the terms of
the agreement between the two entities.
2.   Any wind turbine shall be setback from all occupied structures, public
right-of-ways, and public utility lines a distance equal to 2.0 times the total
height of the wind turbine. The total height of the turbine shall be measured
as established in the definition section. Only one wind turbine shall be
located on the site however, this shall not be interpreted to preclude the
construction of any other anemometer or meteorological tower that is needed in
conjunction with the wind turbine.
3.   Maximum height of a turbine shall not exceed 600 feet measured at the
natural grade at the center of the device to the highest point of the device or
the highest tip of the rotor blades when the blade reaches its highest
elevation.
4.   Minimum lot size shall be 25 acres.
5.   An environmental assessment has been completed that includes comments from
all applicable state and federal agencies. The environmental assessment shall
address, at a minimum, the potential impacts of noise,
vibrations, and shadow flicker; impacts on view corridors; impacts on wetlands,
wildlife and avian resources, topography and soils, vegetation, archaeological
and cultural impacts, tourism and community benefits, and other economic and
natural resources. Any adverse effects that cannot be avoided should be
identified and proposed mitigative measures that will be used discussed to
offset these effects.
B.   Permit Applications
1.   A site plan for any proposed wind energy research site shall be submitted
to Dare County for review as a special use permit. The site plan shall be
prepared by a North Carolina licensed engineer or land surveyor and shall
include the following information:
   a.   A narrative description of the proposed wind energy research site.
   b.   The proposed total rated capacity of any wind turbines to be located on
the wind energy research site.
   c.   The specific number, representative types and heights or range of
heights of wind energy devices to be constructed, including their individual
generating capacity, dimensions and manufacturers, and a description of
supporting and ancillary facilities.
   d.   The proposed location of each wind energy device, property lines,
setback lines, access roads, substations, ancillary equipment, buildings, and
structures including meteorological towers, transmission lines, and the
location of all structures and property within the geographical boundaries of
any applicable setback.
   e.   Any substations, support equipment and buildings, or other transmission
equipment to be located on the site.
   f.   Foundation plans for any wind energy device prepared and sealed by a
North Carolina licensed engineer.
   g.   Landscaping plan depicting proposed buffers of all support facilities
on the property.
   h.   Certification of compliance, if applicable, with Federal Aviation
Administration and Federal Communication Commission regulations.
   i.   Other relevant reports, studies, or information as may be reasonably
requested by Dare County to ensure compliance with these regulations.
   j.   Signed agreement between participating property owner and the facility
owner/operator of the proposed wind energy facility.
   k.   Dare County should be notified in writing of any changes to the
information contained in the permit application.
C.   Noise and Shadow Flicker
This section shall apply to wind energy research sites.
1.   An audible sound study of the proposed site of the wind energy research
site shall be conducted to determine ambient noise levels at the site. Audible
sounds from a wind energy generating facility shall not exceed forty (40)
decibels as measured at any occupied building located within 2,000 linear feet
of the wind turbine.
2.   The applicant shall provide a shadow flicker and blade glint report for
each proposed wind energy research site. Shadow flicker at any occupied
building located within 2,000 linear feet of the wind turbine caused by the
device shall not exceed 30 hours per year.
The report shall:
   a.   Evaluate the worst case scenarios of wind constancy, sunshine
constancy, and wind directions and speeds.
   b.   Map and describe the zones where shadow flicker and blade glint will
likely be present within the project boundary and a one-mile radius beyond the
project boundary.
   c.   Calculate the locations of shadow flicker caused by the proposed
project and the expected durations of the flicker at these locations, including
outdoor viewsheds.
   d.   Calculate the total number of hours per year of flicker at all
locations, including the outdoor viewshed.
   e.   Identify problem zones within a one-mile radius where shadow flicker
will interfere with existing or future residences and roadways and describe
proposed measures to mitigate these problems.
   f.   Based upon the findings of the report, the wind energy research site
shall be designed so that shadow flicker or blade glint will not fall on or in
any roadway or principal use structure.
3.   If after construction of wind energy devices on the site, noise or shadow
flicker problems develop that were not previously identified, then the owner/
operator of the wind energy research site shall take steps to mitigate these
problems. Written notice from Dare County shall be provided to the site
operator of the problems and request the preparation of a mitigation plan to
address the identified problems including a timetable for enactment of the
plan. The site operator shall bear full responsibility for the costs associated
with the mitigation plans and corrective actions that are taken.
4.   If noise levels exceed eighty (80) for more than 24 consecutive hours, as
measured at any site boundaries, the site operator shall shut down the wind
energy research site within one (1) business day of being informed by the
Planning Director to do so. The facility shall remain shut down until it can be
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Planning Director that the facility can
be operated so as to not exceed 40 decibels for more than five consecutive
minutes at any property line.
5.   Property owners may waive the noise and shadow flicker provisions of this
ordinance by signing a waiver of their rights. The written waiver shall notify
applicable property owners of the noise and/or flicker limits required by the
ordinance and describe how the wind energy site may not be in compliance and
state that consent is granted for the wind energy research site to waive noise
and/or flicker limits as required by this ordinance. Any such waiver shall be
signed by the applicable property owner and the site operator and recorded in
the Dare County Register of Deeds.
D.   Installation and Design
1.   The installation and design of any wind energy research site shall conform
to applicable industry standards, including those of the American National
Standards Institute, and take into consideration local conditions.
2.   All structural, electrical and mechanical components of the wind energy
research site shall conform to relevant and applicable local, state and
national codes including NC hurricane wind zone requirements. This shall
include the elevation of any support equipment, substations, or accessory
building associated with the wind energy generating facility tothe applicable
minimum base flood elevation. A stand-down plan for high wind conditions shall
be included with this information.
3.   Transmission lines shall, to the maximum extent possible, be placed
underground.
4.   Wind energy research sites shall not be artificially lighted, except as
required by the FAA or other applicable authority that regulates air safety. If
lighting improvements are required, strobe lighting shall be used as the last
resort. The Applicant shall demonstrate compliance with the County’s Airport
Height Ordinance. If appropriate, as determined by the Planning Director or
designee, the Applicant shall provide a Department of Defense release or
approval for the construction of the wind energy research site in restricted
air space.
5.   No display advertising (including flags, streamers, or other decorative
devices) except for identification of the turbine manufacturer, facility owner/
operator, associated research agency, other participating agencies,
and contact information. This does not apply to any information plaques that
may be required by a governmental agency or utility company. No signage shall
be placed on the wind energy device tower or blades. A signage plan depicting
the type and location of signs shall be submitted with the permit application.
6.   All wind energy devices and all associated support equipment and buildings
shall be of neutral colors such as white, off-white or gray.
7.   All wind energy devices shall have an automatic braking or governing
system to prevent uncontrollable rotation, overspeeding and excessive pressure
on the tower structure, rotor blades, and turbine components.
8.   All moving parts of a wind turbine authorized in this subsection shall be
constructed at least 35 feet above ground to prevent injury or be constructed
with factory-installed shielding to prevent injury.
9.   If the proposed wind turbine is located within the Dare County Regional
Airport Overlay Zone, written approval from the Dare County Airport Authority
is required.
10.   Any climbing foot pegs or rungs below 12 feet of a freestanding turbine
shall be removed to prevent unauthorized climbing. For lattice or guyed towers,
sheets of metal or wood may be fastened to the bottom tower section such that
it cannot readily be climbed.
11.   Be sited and operated so as to not interfere with television, internet
service, telephone (including cellular and digital), microwave, satellite
(dish), navigational, or radio reception in neighboring areas. The applicant
and/or operator of the facility shall be responsible for the full cost of any
remediation necessary to provide equivalent alternate service or correct any
problems; including relocation or removal of the facility caused or exacerbated
by the operation of such equipment and any and all related transmission lines,
transformers, and other components related thereto.
12.   Access to the wind energy research site and associated support equipment
shall be appropriately secured to prevent unauthorized access by the general
public. Appropriate warning signage should be posted on the wind energy
devices, electrical equipment and other support facilities as needed.
13.   Have a leak containment system for oil, hydraulic fluids, and other non-
solids that is certified by an engineer or other expert acceptable to the
Planning Director or designee that all such fluids will be captured before they
reach the ground. The applicant shall pay for the costs of the expert
certification.
E.   Decommissioning
1.   The wind energy research site owner shall have six months to complete
decommissioning of the site if no electricity is generated fora continuous
period of six months.
2.   Decommissioning shall include removal of wind turbines, buildings,
cabling, electrical components, roads, and any other associated facilities down
to 36 inches below grade.
3.   Disturbed earth shall be graded and re-seeded, unless the landowner
requests in writing that the access roads or other land surface areas not be
restored.
4.   The applicant shall place with Dare County an acceptable letter-of-credit,
bond, or other form of security that is sufficient to cover 120% of the cost of
removal at the end of the facility’s useful life, as detailed in the
decommissioning plan. The cost estimate shall be certified by an Engineer,
salvage company, or other expert suitable to the Planning Director or designee.
The surety shall be used by Dare County to assure the faithful performance of
the terms and conditions of this law and conditions of this ordinance, as well
as to serve as a removal security to prevent the taxpayers from bearing the
cost of removal in the event of the abandonment or cessation of use for more
than 90 consecutive days. The full amount of the bond or security shall remain
in full force and effect until any
and all necessary site restoration is completed to restore the site to a
condition comparable to that which existed prior to the facility, as determined
by the Planning Director or designee.
F.   Maintenance
A plan that details a regular maintenance schedule for routine and storm
follow-up maintenance actions that will be taken to keep the wind energy
generating facility operating quietly, efficiently, and non-polluting shall be
filed with the Dare County Planning Department. Such plan should detail the
type of maintenance actions that will be performed and include a section that
addresses storm maintenance activities. The Applicant shall conduct preventive
maintenance inspections on a January, April, July, October, and after any wind
event defined as a tropical storm or Category 1-5 Hurricane. Each inspection
shall look for such things as metal fatigue, nut loosenings, and other
potential failures that might impact the public health and safety, as well as
the items detailed in the Maintenance Plan. Such inspection reports shall be
provided to the Planning Director or designee within 30 (thirty) days of the
inspection.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-29.4 - ALTERNATIVE ENERGY PROJECTS FOR DARE COUNTY SCHOOLS
A.   Application
These regulations shall apply to all zoned areas in unincorporated Dare County
that is owned or used by the Dare County Schools. This shall include programs
that involve the construction of wind turbines on school property for study and
research purposes. Alternative energy projects may be approved subject to the
following conditions:
1.   Any wind turbine shall be setback from all structures and public utility
lines a distance equal to 1.1 times the total height of the wind turbine.
2.   Maximum height of a turbine shall not exceed 100 feet measured from the
natural grade at the center of the device to the highest point of the device or
the highest tip of the rotor blades when the blade reaches its highest
elevation.
B.   Permit Applications
1.   A site plan for any alternative energy project shall be submitted to Dare
County for review as a special use subject to review by the Planning Board and
Board of Commissioners. The site plan shall be prepared by a North Carolina
licensed engineer or land surveyor and shall include the following information:
   a.   A narrative description of the proposed alternative energy project
including the name of the school campus for which the project is proposed.
   b.   The specific number, representative types, heights and range of wind
energy devices to be constructed, including their individual generating
capacity, dimensions and manufacturers, and a description of supporting and
ancillary facilities.
   c.   Any substations, support equipment and buildings, or other transmission
equipment to be located on the site.
   d.   Foundation plans for any wind energy device prepared and sealed by a
North Carolina licensed engineer.
   e.    Certification of compliance, if applicable, with Federal Aviation
Administration and Federal Communication Commission regulations.
   f.   Other information as may be reasonably requested by Dare County to
ensure compliance with these regulations.
C.   Installation and Design
1.   All structural, electrical and mechanical components of any wind energy
device shall conform to applicable local, state and national codes including NC
hurricane wind zone requirements. This shall include the elevation of any
support equipment, substations, or accessory building associated with the
project to the applicable minimum base flood elevation.
2.   Wind turbines shall not be artificially lighted, except as required by the
FAA or other applicable authority that regulates air safety. If lighting
improvements are required, strobe lighting shall be used as the last resort.
The Applicant shall demonstrate compliance with the County’s Airport Height
Ordinance, if applicable.
3.   All wind energy devices shall have an automatic braking or governing
system to prevent uncontrollable rotation, overspeeding and excessive pressure
on the tower structure, rotor blades, and turbine components.
4.   Any climbing foot pegs or rungs below 12 feet of a freestanding turbine
shall be removed to prevent unauthorized climbing. For lattice or guyed towers,
sheets of metal or wood may be fastened to the bottom tower section such that
it cannot readily be climbed.
D.   Fees
Building permit fees of $1.00 per foot of turbine/tower height shall be
assessed at the time a building permit is issued for any wind turbine
authorized for construction under this ordinance.
E.   Definitions
The definitions set forth in Section
22-29.3 Wind Energy Research Sites of the Zoning Ordinance shall apply to these
regulations also.
(Adopted 7-18-2011)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-29.5 - SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
The intent of these regulations is to provide for the location of solar energy
systems in all areas of unincorporated Dare County subject to the following:
Definition
Solar Energy Systems – An energy system which converts solar energy to usable
thermal, mechanical, chemical or electrical energy for use in the heating or
cooling of a structure, for heating domestic water or water used in swimming
pools or hot tubs, or for the generation of electricity for one principal use
structure located on the same parcel or lot as the solar energy system. This
does not include solar energy facilities used for the wholesale generation of
solar energy by utility companies and/or other business entities.
Type of Systems: Only photovoltaic systems or solar water heating panels shall
be permitted. Systems that employ mirrors or other reflective surfaces shall
not be used.
Setbacks Requirements: Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be located a
minimum of five feet from any side or rear property line unless the applicable
zoning district requires accessory structures to comply with principal
structure use setbacks. In no instances shall a solar energy system be located
in the front yard or front yard setback area.
Height Limitations: Roof mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the
building height limit of the applicable zoning district. Ground-mounted solar
energy systems shall not exceed ten feet at its highest operational angle
measured from the finished grade of the lot or parcel.
Lot coverage: Ground-mounted solar panels and their associated mounts shall be
excluded from the applicable lot coverage limitation up to a maximum 10% of the
total lot area when used in conjunction with a residential principal use
structure and up to 5% of the total lot area when used in conjunction with a
commercial or industrial principal use structure. Other ground based
components, such as equipment boxes, shall be included in the lot coverage
calculations.
Other Standards: The proposed location of any solar energy system shall be
depicted on a survey of the property. The survey shall also note the distance
the solar energy system is located from any side and or rear property line. Any
required building permit for the energy solar system shall be secured from Dare
County before the system is located on the property.
(Adopted 8-7-2017)
SECTION 22-30 - REDUCTION OF FRONT YARD SETBACK REQUIREMENTS
In any residential district, where the average setback distance for existing
buildings on all lots located wholly or partly within 200 feet of any lot, and
within the same zoning district and fronting on the same side of the same
street as such a lot is less than the minimum setback required in such zoning
district, the setback on such lot may be less than the required setback but not
less than the existing average setback distance for all lots within the 200
feet, and in no instance shall the setback be reduced to less than 15 feet.
When lots within the 200 feet are vacant, such vacant lots shall be considered
as having the minimum required setback for the purpose of computing an average
setback distance. (11-20-75, art. 3, 3.12; 2-6-78)
SECTION 22-31 - GROUP DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
   (a)   Generally. Group development projects, consisting of two or more
buildings devoted to a common or similar use and constructed on a single lot,
may be permitted in specified districts as special use permits according to the
provisions of Sections
22-65 and
22-70. Such review and approval shall be required for all group development
projects. Adequate scaled site plans shall be submitted to allow for review of
the size and location of all buildings, structures, streets, drives and parking
spaces and their relationship to any open spaces and adjacent properties. Such
group housing development plans shall also be accompanied by a computation or
schedule, expressed in acres or portions thereof, which indicates the area and
percentage of the site devoted to:
      (1)   Gross area.
      (2)   Parking area.
      (3)   Net area.
      (4)   Building area.
      (5)   Open space.
   (b)   Design standards. - Generally. All group development projects shall
comply with the following design standards:
      (1)   Street access. Any building established as a part of a group
development project, which cannot properly be served by emergency or service
vehicles from an existing abutting street, shall be made accessible to such
vehicles by a publicly-dedicated street. All street improvements shall consist
of a minimum 45-foot-wide right-of-way, with 20-foot-wide paved improvements
located internal to this 45-foot right-of-way. All pavement and sub-base
materials used in the construction of the street improvements shall be
consistent with applicable NCDOT standards for acceptance into the state
highway maintenance system. All proposed street improvements shall be built to
be consistent with all other applicable NCDOT standards, including but not
limited to, roadway design, utility placement, drainage improvements.
      (2)   The developer shall submit, as a part of the group development site
plan, a signed statement of a North Carolina-licensed professional engineer,
stating that the proposed streets as designed will meet all of the requirements
of this section. The developer shall provide for inspections to ensure that the
streets are being constructed in accordance with the approved site plan by an
independent, licensed professional engineer during the construction process,
whose reports are to be submitted to the Planning Board in accordance with a
schedule submitted, and approved as part of the group development. Once the
street improvements are complete, the developer shall submit a certificate of
an independent, licensed professional engineer that the streets have been
constructed in accordance with the approved site plan.
      (3)   The ownership of the streets shall be conveyed to a home owners’
association or similar organization. The developer shall submit evidence that
the ultimate owner of the streets will be institutionally and fiscally capable
of maintaining the streets and rights-of-way to the specified standards in
perpetuity. The developer must agree to maintain the streets until the owners’
organization is fully functional, and must agree to contribute to that
organization its share of the maintenance for all lots retained by the
developer or successor.
      (4)   The approved site plan, the uniform covenants and deeds shall
plainly indicate that the streets are dedicated to public use, and their
maintenance is the responsibility of the owners' organization in perpetuity, or
until the streets are accepted into the state highway system.
      (5)   Off-street parking and loading facilities. Off-street parking and
loading facilities established in connection with a group development project
shall be of such design, location and arrangement as will not interfere with
the efficient flow of traffic through the area and as will not interfere with
the access of emergency or service vehicles.
      (6)   Separation of buildings. All buildings established as a part of a
group development project shall be separated by not less than 20 feet.
      (7)   Setback requirements. Unless otherwise provided by this chapter for
a specific type of group development, each group development project shall
comply with the front yard setback and the side and rear yard requirements
established for the district in which it is located.
      (8)   Prohibited uses. In no case shall a use be permitted as a part of a
group development project that is prohibited by this chapter in the district in
which such project is to be located. (Amended on 6-2-2008)
   (c)   Same - Group housing projects. In addition to the other standards set
forth in this section, a group housing project shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Setbacks. All buildings established as a part of a group housing
project shall be set back not less than 25 feet from any side or rear property
line.
      (2)   Location. No dwelling structure established as a part of a housing
project shall be situated on a lot so as to face the rear of another dwelling
structure within the development or on adjoining property.
      (3)   Lot size. A group housing project shall be permitted only on a lot
or plot of ground having an area of not less than 20,000 square feet. (11-20-
75, art. 3, 3.13)
   (d)   Historic Residential Structure Properties. (Adopted 9-3-2024)
   INTENT: To recognize the existence of property with multiple structures of
which at least one structure on the property was constructed prior to November
20, 1975. The following requirements shall be applied:
      (1)   Minimum lot size: 25,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum separation of buildings: 14 feet measured from exterior
wall to exterior wall of any structure.
      (3)   Lot coverage - 30% of the total lot area.
      (4)   Setbacks - The front, rear and side yard setbacks of the applicable
zoning district shall not apply to any historical structure that existed prior
to November 20, 1975. The date of construction shall be as established on the
Dare County tax records or other Dare County permit records. Other existing
principal use structures on the site shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from
any rear or side property line except waterfront lots may have a zero rear lot
line setback.
      (5)   Any residential structure constructed after September 3, 2024 shall
comply to the design standards listed in Section
22-31 subsections (b) and (c).
      (6)   Building height: Same as the applicable zoning district height
limit.
      (7)   No additions or modifications that increase the footprint of any
structure on the property shall be authorized that increases the non-conforming
nature of any existing rear yard and side yard setback encroachments. This
shall not be interpreted to preclude maintenance of the structures.
      (8)   Other reasonable and appropriate conditions that may be applied as
part of the special use review and approval process as established in Section
22-65 and Section
22-70.
      (9)   These standards may be applied in any of the zoning districts
listed in Section
22-31 subsection (e).
   (e)   Group developments may be allowed in the following zoning district: R-
2, R2-A, R2-B, R-2H, R2-AH, R-3, RS-6, RS-8, RS-10, SP-C, VC, VC-2,C-2, C-2H,
C-3, I-1, S-1, BT, RB, MLM, WVC, MC-1, MC-2, SNC, and Highway 345. Only those
uses listed as permitted and/or special uses in the applicable zoning district
shall be considered for group developments. This language is not intended to
allow any use as a group development that is not permitted by right in the
applicable district. (Adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on
February 4, 2002)
   (f)   Disclosure of flood and other hazards.
      (1)   Any land proposed development as a group development as defined in
this subsection which is located, wholly or partially, in a special flood
hazard area as designated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for Dare County shall
include the following certificate on the site plan that is submitted for
special use permit approval by Dare County:
   “This property, or portions of this property, is located within a special
flood hazard area as designated on Flood Insurance Rate Maps for Dare County.
Location in a special flood hazard area represents a one percent (1%) or
greater chance of being flooded in any given year. Flood insurance may be
required by lending institutions for structures constructed on property located
in special flood hazard areas.”
      (2)   Any land proposed for development as a group development which is
located, wholly or partially, in a Coastal Outer Barrier Resources Areas as
determined by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, the following certificate
shall be included on the final plat submitted for approval by Dare County
Planning Director:
   “This property, or portions of this property, is located within a Coastal
Outer Barrier Resources Act (CBRA) zone as determined by the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service. Location in a CBRA zone precludes the availability of
federally-insured loans and the purchase of federal flood insurance through the
National Flood Insurance Program.”
      (3)   The certificate shall also be included in any restrictive covenants
that may be recorded for the group development or be included in any rental
agreement that may be used in conjunction with the leasing of rental units
approved as part of a group development. A copy of these documents including
this certificate shall be provided to Dare County in conjunction with the
approval of the final as-built site plan.
(Adopted 1-20-2015; amended 11-20-2017)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 9-3-2024)
SECTION 22-31.1 - CLUSTER HOME DEVELOPMENTS (Adopted 10-15-2018)
   Cluster home developments consist of more than one residential dwelling on
one parcel of land whereby the dwellings are occupied on a long-term basis.
These standards are designed to facilitate the development of cluster home
projects in unincorporated Dare County subject to the following provisions. The
following provisions shall apply:
   (a)   Cluster homes developments shall be subject to review and approval as
special uses in the following zoning districts: R-2, R-2H, R-3, RS-6, RS-8, C-
2, C-2-H, C-3, 1-1, S-1, and CS. Minimum lot size: 20,000 square feet in these
zoning districts.
   (b)   Cluster homes developments shall be subject to review and approval as
special uses in the following zoning districts: SNC. Minimum lot size: 30,000
square feet in these zoning districts.
   (c)   Setbacks: Dwellings constructed as part of a cluster home development
shall be subject to the setbacks of the applicable zoning district.
   (d)   Separation of dwellings: 15 feet.
   (e)   Lot coverage: 30% of the total lot area.
   (f)   Building height: Same as the applicable zoning district.
   (g)   Maximum size of dwelling: Any dwelling constructed as part of the
cluster home development shall not exceed 1,200 square feet of heated/
conditioned space.
   (h)   Parking: Parking for cluster homes shall be provided at a rate of one
parking space per bedroom of each cluster home. Such parking may be provided at
individual dwelling sites or in a congregate area for the entire development.
Fifty percent (50%) of the required parking shall be of an impervious surface
of concrete or asphalt (not to include asphalt millings or other similar
products).
   (i)   Roads – cluster home developments that cannot be properly served by
emergency or service vehicles from an existing abutting road or street, shall
be made accessible to such vehicles from a 30' right-of-way with 20 feet of
paved improvements.
   (j)   Ownership of cluster homes – cluster home sites may be transferred to
individual owners with the remainder of the lot dedicated as common area owned
by a homeowners association or similar entity. Cluster homes shall be occupied
or rented on a for long-term occupancy as defined in Section
22-2 of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (k)   A copy of the approved special use permit for a cluster home
development shall be recorded with the approved site plan of the development.
   (l)   Other reasonable and appropriate conditions to reflect individual
specific site conditions may be applied to cluster home development as part of
the special use review and approval process.
(Ord. passed 10-15-2018; Am. Ord. passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am.
Ord. passed 5-17-2023)
ARTICLE IV. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
This entire section was deleted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on
September 19, 1994.
ARTICLE V. MOBILE HOME AND TRAILER PARKS
This entire section was deleted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners on
September 19, 1994. Please refer to the Dare County Mobile Home Park Ordinance
for regulations for the development of such uses.
ARTICLE VI. NON-CONFORMITIES
SECTION 22-46 - INTENT OF ARTICLE
Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that may later
be adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of land and structures and
characteristics of use which were lawful before November 20, 1975, or before
the date of adoption of any such applicable amendment, but which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or such
future amendments. It is the intent of this article to permit these
nonconformity’s to continue until they are removed but not to encourage their
survival. It is further the intent of this article that non-conformities shall
not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding
other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
SECTION 22-47 - NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD
   a.   Any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, a single-
family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single
lot of record on November 20, 1975.
      For lots of record as of November 29, 1982, the following dimensional
requirements shall apply:
      1.   Lots with 5,000 square feet or less
         a.   Front yard setback - 15 feet or more so as to bring any structure
into conformity with the front yard alignment of existing structures on the
same side of the street and within 500 linear feet of the closest side yard
property line.
         b.   Side yard setback - 5 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback is 7 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
         c.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
         d.   Lot coverage - 60% of the lot square footage but not to exceed a
maximum of 2,500 square feet. This increase in lot coverage shall be used
exclusively for the principal use structure and parking areas and not for
exterior improvements subordinate to the principal use structures such as
pools, tennis courts, hot tubs and detached garages.
      2.   Lots with 5,001 to 10,000 square feet
         a.   Front yard setback - 20 feet or more so as to bring any structure
into conformity with the front yard alignment of existing structures on the
same side of the street and within 500 linear feet of the closest side yard
property line.
         b.   Side yard setback - 8 feet for corner lots, the side yard setback
is 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
         c.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
         d.   Lot coverage - 50% of the lot square footage but not to exceed a
maximum of 4,000 square feet. This increase in lot coverage shall be used
exclusively for the principal use structure and parking areas and not for
exterior improvements subordinate to the principal use structures such as
pools, tennis courts, hot tubs and detached garages.
      3.   Lots with 10,001 - 14,999 square feet.
         a.   Front yard setback - 25 feet or more so as to bring any structure
into conformity with the front yard alignment of existing structures on the
same side of the street and within 500 linear feet of the closest side yard
property line.
         b.   Side yard setback - 8 feet. For corner lots, the side yard
setback is 10 feet on the side of the lot that abuts the street.
         c.   Rear yard setback - 20 feet.
         d.   Lot coverage - 40% of the lot square footage but not to exceed a
maximum of 4,500 square feet of area. This increase in lot coverage shall be
used exclusively the principal use structure and parking areas and not for
exterior improvements subordinate to the principal use structures such as
pools, tennis courts, hot tubs and detached garages.
      4.   For lots of record on November 20, 1975 with less than 50 feet of
lot width at the building setback line, the minimum side yard shall be 5 feet.
These standards for non-conforming lots shall not apply to those areas in
unincorporated Dare County zoned R-4.
Adopted by DCBC on April 7, 2003
SECTION 22-48 - NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND
Where, on November 20, 1975, a lawful use of land exists which would not be
permitted by the regulations imposed by this chapter, and where such use
involves no individual structure with a replacement cost exceeding $1,000, the
use may be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful; provided that:
   (a)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on November 20,
1975, or on the effective date of any applicable amendment of this chapter.
   (b)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use on November
20, 1975, or on the effective date of any applicable amendment of this chapter.
   (c)   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 30 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
   (d)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
chapter shall be erected in connection with such non-conforming use of land.
(11-20-75, art. 5, 5.02)
SECTION 22-49 - NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES
Where a lawful structure exists on November 20, 1975 or on the effective date
of any applicable amendment of this chapter, that could not be built under the
terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height,
yards, its location on the lot or other requirements concerning the structure,
such structure may be continued so long as it remains lawful, subject to the
following provisions:
   (a)   No such non-conforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non-conformity, but any structure or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its nonconformity.
   (b)   Should such non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of
structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed,
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (c)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
   (d)   Any such non-conforming structure located on a lot adjacent to the
Atlantic Ocean or sound waters may be moved to the same lot; provided, that
such movement does not increase the non-conformity of the structure in any way.
(11-20-75, art. 5, 5.02)
SECTION 22-50 - NON-CONFORMING USES OF BUILDINGS OR OF BUILDINGS AND PREMISE IN
COMBINATION
If a lawful use involving buildings with a replacement cost of $1,000 or more,
or involving building and premises in combination, exists on November 20, 1975,
or on the effective date of any applicable amendment of this chapter, that
would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this chapter, the
lawful use may be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
   (a)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (b)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use on November
20, 1975, or on the effective date of any applicable amendment of this
ordinance, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any land outside such
building.
   (c)   If no structural alterations are made, any non-conforming structure or
use of a structure may be changed to any conforming use or with approval of the
County Commissioners, to any use more in character with uses permitted in the
district. In permitting such a change, the Board of Commissioners must find
that the proposed use is more appropriate or equally as appropriate to the
district as the existing non-conforming use and shall require appropriate
conditions and safeguards necessary to ensure that the change is in keeping
with the provisions and spirit of this chapter.
   (d)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
non-conforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district, and the non-conforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
   (e)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for ten consecutive months, except
when government action impedes access to the premises, the structure, or
structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used, except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (f)   Where a non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
non-conforming status of the land. Destruction, for the purpose of this
subsection, is defined as damage to an extent of more than 50% of the
replacement cost at the time of destruction. (11-20-75, art. 5, 5.02)
SECTION 22-51 - REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE
   (a)   In any non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures,
wiring or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 10% of current replacement cost
of the non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion of the structure, as
the case may be; provided, that the cubic content existing when it became non-
conforming shall not be increased.
   (b)   If a non-conforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
non-conforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance and is declared by the building inspector to be unsafe or
unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be restored,
repaired or rebuilt, except in conforming with the regulations of the district
in which it is located.
   (c)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official. (11-20-75, art. 5, 5.02)
SECTION 22-52 - PERMITTED SPECIAL USES NOT NON-CONFORMING
Any use which is permitted as a special use in a district under the terms of
this chapter shall not be deemed a non-conforming use in such district but
shall without further action be considered a conforming use. (11-20-75, art. 5,
5.02)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE VII. OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION 22-53 - OFF-STREET PARKING - REQUIRED
At the time of erection of any building or structure, or at the time any main
building or structure is enlarged or increased in capacity by adding dwelling
units, guest rooms, seats or floor area, or before conversion from one zoning
use or occupancy to another, permanent off-street parking space shall be
provided according to the amounts and specifications provided in this article.
(11-20-75, art. 6, 6.01)
SECTION 22-54 - SAME - GENERAL STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
   (a)   Each off-street parking space required by this article shall have a
minimum length of 20 feet and a minimum width of 10 feet. It shall have
vehicular access to a publicly dedicated street or alley, except as authorized
in this chapter as group development or otherwise approved by Dare County.
   (b)   With the exception of required spaces for single-family and two-family
dwelling units, sufficient maneuvering space shall be provided so that no
vehicle will be required to back into the public right-of-way, private street
or other established vehicular right of way or easement.
   (c)   No parking spaces for residential use, except for single-family and
two-family use, shall be located in the required front yard.
   (d)   Required parking spaces and driveways for other than single-family
uses shall be graded, improved and maintained in a manner in which will provide
a dust free surface, permitting safe and convenient use in all weather
conditions.
   (e)   Required off-street parking spaces are permanent areas and shall not
be used for any other above ground purpose.
   (f)   For uses not specifically mentioned in this article, off-street
parking requirements shall be applied by the Planning Director, based upon
requirements for similar uses established herein.
   (g)   All space requirements, which are based upon employment, shall be
computed on the basis of the greatest number of persons on duty at any one
period during the day or night. In instances where calculations that indicate a
portion of one space is required, an additional full space shall be provided.
   (h)   Each application for a development approval or certification of
compliance submitted to the Planning Director shall include information as to
the location and dimensions of off-street parking and loading space and the
means of ingress and egress to such space. This information shall be in
sufficient detail to enable the Planning Director to determine whether or not
the requirements of this article are met.
   (i)   The required parking space for any number of separate uses may be
combined in one lot, but the required space assigned to one use may not be
assigned to another use; except, that one-half of the parking space required
for churches, theaters or assembly halls whose peak attendance will be at night
or on Sundays.
   (j)   If the off-street parking space required by this article in any
district except a residential district cannot be reasonably provided on the
same lot on which the principal use is located, such space may be provided on
any land within 400 feet of the main entrance to such principal use. Such land
shall be used for no other purpose so long as no other adequate provisions of
parking space meeting the requirements of this article have been made for the
principal use. In such cases, the applicant for a development approval for the
principal use shall submit with the application for a development approval an
instrument duly executed and acknowledged, which subjects such land to parking
use in connection with the principal use for which it is made available for a
period of 20 years, with an option for renewal for an additional period of 10
years. The applicant shall deposit the necessary fee, and upon the issuance of
a development approval, the Planning Director shall cause such instrument to be
registered in the office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
   (k)   Any off-street parking space required by any use permitted in any
residential district shall be provided on the same lot with the use by which it
is required. Off-street parking space in conjunction with commercial and
industrial uses in other districts shall not be permitted in a residential
district.
   (l)   Where off-street parking is provided between the building line and the
street right-of-way line for any business use, a buffer strip of at least five
feet in width shall be provided adjacent to such street right-of-way line. Curb
cuts through such buffer strips shall be located no closer than 30 feet, unless
otherwise approved by Dare County. (11-20-75, art. 6, 6.01)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-55 - SAME - STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING LOTS
Where parking space for five or more cars is permitted or required, the
following provisions shall be complied with:
   (a)   Yards. No parking lot shall be located closer than ten feet to a
public right-of-way. The area between the parking lot and street right-of-way
shall be planted and maintained in lawn or other appropriate planting or shall
be improved otherwise as approved in the site plan review.
   (b)   Curb bumpers. The required front and side yards shall be set off from
the parking area by a fixed curb approved by the Planning Director, not less
than eight inches nor more than two feet high.
   (c)   Lighting. Any lighting shall be so arranged as to direct light and
glare away from streets and adjacent property.
   (d)   Surfacing. All parking lots shall be provided with a dust proof
surface with adequate drainage facilities.
   (e)   Drainage. Parking lots shall not drain onto or across public sidewalks
or into adjacent property, except into a natural watercourse or a drainage
easement.
   (f)   Markings. Each parking space shall be marked off and maintained so as
to be distinguishable.
   (g)   Entrances. On all corner lots, no vehicular openings shall be located
at closer than 15 feet from the point of intersection of the established street
right-of-way lines. No entrance or exit whether on a corner lot or not, shall
exceed 30 feet in width at the property line or 40 feet at the curb line. There
shall be a minimum distance between one-way driveways of 25 feet, measured
along the curb line.
   (h)   Internal circulation. The internal circulation plan or parking lots
shall be approved by the Planning Director.
   (i)   Solid waste container requirements. Sufficient space shall be provided
on the premises for the location of solid waste containers as required by
Chapter 10 of this Code or other County Ordinances regulating the collection
and disposal of trash and garbage. Such solid waste container location may be
in a required parking lot provided, that such location does not occupy a
required parking space or maneuvering space; provided, further, that such solid
waste container location shall provide convenient and safe access to the
servicing vehicle. (11-20-75, art. 6, 6.01)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-56 - SAME - NUMBER OF SPACES REQUIRED
The number of off-street parking spaces required by this section shall be
provided on the same lot with the principal use, except as provided in
subsection (j) of section 22-54, and the required number of off-street spaces
specified for each use shall be considered as the absolute minimum. Where a
fraction of a space is required by this section, the next whole number shall be
provided. In addition, a developer shall evaluate his/her needs to determine if
they are greater than the minimum specified by this section. The required
number of spaces shall be as follows:
Use Required Parking
    
Use                                                         Required Parking
                                                            
                                                            Permanent parking spaces shall be provided on the same lot as the principal use
                                                            structure and shall not be located on or within any right-of-way, street, easement or
                                                            road area.
                                                               1.   For structures with 5 or less bedrooms or bedroom equivalents as established on
                                                            the Dare County wastewater improvement permit or other wastewater permitting agency,
                                                            the following standards shall apply: (Amended on 6-20- 16)
                                                                  a.   One parking space for each authorized bedroom or bedroom equivalent shall be
                                                            provided with 50% of the required parking spaces of an impervious surface. The
                                                            remainder may be of a pervious surface, however sand shall not be considered an
                                                            acceptable pervious surface. Minimum dimensions of individual parking spaces: 10’ x
                                                            20’. Parking spaces may be provided under the structure. Parking spaces may be allowed
                                                            in the front yard setback area but cannot be located closer than 2’ from side property
                                                            lines. Parking spaces shall comply with all applicable setback regulations for
                                                            wastewater improvements. Parking spaces shall be located on the cite in a manner that
For Single-family detached residential structures           allows access by all vehicles.
                                                                 b.   Final approval of layout subject to review by Dare County Planning
                                                            Department based on consultation with Fire Marshal/EMS. Installation of the parking
                                                            improvements shall be verified by Dare County before the release of the certificate of
                                                            occupancy and shall be depicted on an as-built survey.
                                                                  c.   No parking area shall be altered to preclude its use for parking subsequent
                                                            to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
                                                               2.   For structures with 6 or more authorized bedrooms or bedroom equivalents as
                                                            established on the Dare County wastewater improvement permit or other wastewater
                                                            permitting agency, the following standards shall apply: (Amended on 6-20-16)
                                                                  a.   One parking space for each authorized bedroom or bedroom equivalent shall be
                                                            provided with 50% of the required parking spaces of an impervious surface. The
                                                            remainder may be of a pervious surface, however sand shall not be considered an
                                                            acceptable pervious surface. Minimum dimensions of individual spaces: 10’ x 20’.
                                                            Parking spaces may be allowed in the front yard setback area but cannot be located
                                                            closer than 2’ from side property lines. Parking spaces shall comply with all
                                                            applicable setback regulations for wastewater improvements.
                                                                  b.   A drive aisle, minimum width of 10’, shall be provided to facilitate
                                                            emergency vehicle access and vehicle maneuvering. This drive aisle shall be constructed
                                                            of an impervious surface. One parking space, located at the end of the drive aisle
For Single-family detached residential structures - Cont’dclosest to the structure, may be located in the drive aisle. Parallel or perpendicular
                                                           parking spaces may be provided along the length of this drive aisle area on either
                                                            side. Parking spaces may be provided under the house outside of the designated drive
                                                            aisle areas. Parking spaces shall be located on the cite in a manner that allows access
                                                            by all vehicles.
                                                                  c.   Final approval of layout subject to review by Dare County Planning
                                                            Department based on consultation with Fire Marshal/EMS. Installation of the parking
                                                            improvements shall be verified by Dare County before the release of the certificate of
                                                            occupancy and shall be depicted on an as-built survey.
                                                                  d.   No parking areas shall be altered to preclude its use for parking subsequent
                                                            to the issuance of an occupancy permit.
Single family structure with small child care home (Adopted Ability to accommodate two vehicles off site of any right-of-way used as access to a
11-5-90)                                                    small child- care home in addition to those parking spaces required for a single-family
                                                            residence.
Single-family structure with large child care home (Adopted Ability to accommodate three vehicles off-site of any right-of-way used as access to a
11-5-90)                                                    large child-care home in addition to those parking spaces required for a single-family
                                                            residence.
                                                            1 parking space for each authorized bedroom proposed in a multi-family structure with
                                                            50% of the required parking spaces of an impervious surface. Concrete, asphalt, turf-
Multi-family residences, group housing projects, townhouses stone and/or paving block installed over a clay sub-base are considered impervious
and condominiums                                            surfaces. For those properties located in a CAMA area of environmental concern that
                                                            restricts the use of impervious surfaces, the Dare County requirement for impervious
                                                            parking may be waived. However, this area shall still be designated as lot coverage.
                                                            (Amended on 2-1-16)
Hotel, tourist home, motel, motor court, rooming or         1.5 parking spaces for each room to be rented, plus one additional parking space for
boarding house                                              each three employees.
Public and semi-public uses                                 Required Parking
Doctor’s or dentist’s office in own residence           Three parking spaces per doctor, in addition to residence requirements.
Professional office, other than doctor or dentist, in own   Two parking spaces per office or home occupation, in addition to residence
residence                                                   requirements.
Hospital                                                    One parking space for each two beds intended for patient use, one space for each
                                                           resident physician and one space for each two employees.
Clinic                                                      Ten parking spaces minimum, plus five parking spaces for each doctor assigned, plus one
                                                            parking space for each employee.
Nursing home                                                One parking space for each five beds intended for patient use and one space for each
                                                            three employees.
Churches                                                    One parking space for each four seats in the sanctuary.
Elementary school and Junior High School                    One parking space for each classroom and administrative office
Senior high school                                          One parking space for each five students for which the building was designed, plus one
                                                           parking space for each classroom and administrative office.
Stadium                                                     One parking space for each two spectator seats
Auditorium                                                  One parking space for each two seats in the largest assembly room.
Public or private clubs                                     One parking space for each two hundred square feet of gross floor space.
 
Public utility buildings                                    One parking space for each employee. With custom service facilities, a minimum of five
                                                           additional spaces.
Child care centers                                          One space for every three children and one space for each employee.
(Adopted 11-5-90)                                                          
Retail and office use                                       Required Parking
General or professional offices and banks, (other than      One parking space for each two hundred square feet of gross floor space, plus one space
doctors and dentists) (see clinic requirements)             for each two employees
Restaurant, café or eating place                           One parking space for every three customer seats, plus one additional parking space for
                                                            each three employees.
Drive-in restaurant or refreshment stand                    Thirty parking spaces, in addition to the requirements for a restaurant, café or public
                                                            eating place.
Fishing piers                                               A minimum of twenty-five parking spaces, with one additional parking space for each two
                                                            hundred square feet or gross floor space under cover.
                                                            One space per three people of occupancy rating plus one space for each two employees.
Indoor recreation except as listed below                    OR if an occupancy rating cannot be determined then a ratio of one space for each two
                                                            hundred sq. ft. of customer use area plus one space for each two employees shall apply.
Bowling alley                                               Three spaces per lane.
Arena or other indoor assembly with fixed seats             One space per three seats.
Movie theater or indoor theater                             One space per three seats.
Tennis courts, racquet ball and other racket courts         Two spaces for each court plus one space for each two employees.
                                                            One space per three people of occupancy rating plus one space for each two employees
                                                            plus parking for any indoor building areas associated with the outdoor recreation use.
Outdoor recreation except as listed below                   OR if an occupancy rating cannot be determined then a ratio of one space for each two
                                                            hundred sq. ft. of customer use area plus one space for each two employees plus one
                                                            space per two hundred sq. ft. for any indoor building areas associated with the outdoor
                                                            recreation use shall apply.
Golf course                                                 Four spaces for each golf hole plus 1.2 spaces for each driving range tee.
Outdoor area or theater                                     One space per three seats.
Tennis courts, racquet ball and other racket courts         Two spaces for each court plus one space for each two employees.
                                                               a.   Customer use area is defined as those areas used by patrons of a recreation
                                                            facility. For indoor recreation facilities this shall not include those portions of an
                                                            indoor recreation facility that is used for storage and/or office areas for employees/
                                                            owners of the business. For outdoor recreation facilities, this shall not include areas
                                                            used for stormwater retention or collection, areas used for wastewater treatment
                                                            improvements, landscape buffers, and other similar site improvements required by the
                                                            Zoning Ordinance. Public restroom areas are to be included as customer use areas.
                                                               b.   For any proposed indoor or outdoor recreation use that is not listed, the
                                                            Planning Director shall determine the appropriate use category most similar to the
                                                            proposed use and apply appropriate parking standards based on the occupancy rating of
                                                            the use. The Planning Director may also require the submission of a parking study if
                                                            other similar uses are not listed in the parking requirements for Dare County. The
                                                            parking study shall include estimates of parking demand based on standards from the
                                                            Institute of Traffic Engineers (ITE) or other acceptable estimates as approved by the
                                                            Planning Director for uses or combination of uses that are the same as or are
Other standards for indoor and outdoor recreation uses      comparable to the proposed use.
                                                               c.   The maximum occupancy rating shall be as determined by the Dare County Planning
                                                            Department. In determining the applicable parking ratio, a maximum occupancy rating
                                                            shall be recommended by a North Carolina engineer or architect and submitted to the
                                                            Planning Department as part of the site plan review process. The maximum occupancy
                                                            rating recommendation shall be based on the North Carolina Building Code and Fire Code
                                                            and on accepted professional standards. All reference material used by the design
                                                            professional in developing the recommendation for the maximum occupancy rating shall be
                                                            identified by the design professional. In lieu of the standard ratios in the minimum
                                                            parking table of Section
                                                            22-56, the design professional may recommend the application of alternative parking
                                                            standards from established professional organizations such as the Institute of Traffic
                                                            Engineers (ITE) to calculate the minimum required number of parking spaces. The
                                                            Planning Director, in consultation with the Dare County Fire Marshal and the Dare
                                                            County Building Inspector, shall review the maximum occupancy rating and parking ratios
                                                            recommended by the design professional and shall indicate
                                                            agreement or disagreement with the design professional’s recommendation. Additional
                                                            calculations or documentation may be requested by Dare County in its evaluation. Upon
                                                            review of all information, the determination of the applicable parking ratio and final
                                                            maximum occupancy rating shall be issued by Dare County and appropriately documented as
                                                            part of the site plan review process.
Other standards for indoor and outdoor recreation uses         d.   Where a site is used for a combination of indoor and/or outdoor recreational
(Cont’d)                                                  uses, the total number of required parking spaces shall be based on the sum of the
                                                            requirements for each use and a parking space for one use shall not be included in the
                                                            designation of parking for any other use.
                                                               e.   A 10% reduction in the total number of required parking spaces as set forth in
                                                            the minimum parking table above may be authorized if the total required number exceeds
                                                            fifty spaces. (Adopted 3-2-2015)
Miniature golf courses                                      One and one-half parking spaces per hole plus one parking space for each two employees.
(Adopted 3-21-11)
Theaters                                                    One parking space for each three seats in the auditorium.
Funeral home                                                One parking space for each four seats in the chapel or parlor.
Retail uses not otherwise listed                            One parking space for each two hundred square feet of floor area.
Garden Shop – onsite parking                              One space for each 200 square feet of total display area.
Landscape Business                                          One space for each two employees plus oversize parking area for equipment based on
                                                            individual needs of business as detailed at the time of Conditional Use Permit review.
Dog agility training facility                               One parking space per each one member of the facility plus one space per each three
(Adopted 1-22-2013)                                         employees.
Food Stand                                                  Ten parking spaces.
(Adopted 4-15-2013)
Wholesale uses and warehouses                               Required Parking
Wholesale uses                                              One parking space for each employee on the largest shift.       
Industrial uses                                             Two parking spaces for each three employees on the largest shift.
 
(11-20-75, art. 6, 6.01; 9-7-76, 1; 2-6-78, 1)
The following restrictions shall apply to all residential property:
Survey Required: All parking improvements shall be depicted on the survey that
is submitted to secure a building permit. The survey should include dimensions
of all parking improvements including spaces, turnaround and drive aisles if
required; proposed surface materials, and lot coverage. An as-built survey
prepared by a NC licensed surveyor depicting all required parking areas and
applicable drive aisles shall be provided before release of the certificate of
occupancy by the Dare County building inspector.
Construction Standards: Concrete, asphalt, turf-stone and /or paving block
installed over a clay sub-base are considered impervious surfaces. Gravel,
stone, grassed or sodded areas, or turf-stone and/or paving block installed
over a sand sub-base shall be considered pervious surfaces.
Road Frontage: For lots with direct frontage on NC 12, SR 1217 (Colington
Road), NC 345 or US 64, sufficient maneuvering area of not less than 10’ x 10’
shall be provided on site to avoid vehicles backing into the public right-of-
way of these roadways. This area shall be depicted on the survey submitted to
secure the building permit. For structures with five (5) or less authorized
bedrooms or bedroom equivalents, this maneuvering area may be of a pervious
surface. For structures with 6 or more authorized bedroom or bedroom
equivalents, this maneuvering area shall be of an impervious surface.
Acceptable pervious surfaces include gravel, grass or similar surfaces that
allow for safe vehicular movement.
Flag Lots: Flag lot configurations shall provide access along the elongated or
pole portion of the lot with a minimum of 12’ width. This access area shall be
improved with gravel, stone, rock, marl, clay, turf-stone, or other surface
that will accommodate access by emergency service vehicles.
CAMA Exemption: For those properties located within a CAMA ocean hazard AEC
that restricts the use of impervious surfaces, the Dare County requirement for
impervious parking and/or drive aisles may be waived. However, this area shall
still be designated as lot coverage. (Adopted by the DCBC on April 7, 2003)
SECTION 22-57 - OFF-STREET LOADING
   Where off-street loading is required under the dimensional requirements of a
particular district, one or more loading berths or other spaces shall be
provided for standing, loading and unloading operations, either inside or
outside a building and on the same or adjoining premises with every building or
structure erected after November 6, 1975 all to be in accordance with the
requirements of the following table. A loading berth shall have minimum plan
dimensions of twelve by twenty-five feet and a fourteen-foot overhead
clearance. A loading space need not necessarily be a full berth but shall be
sufficient to allow normal loading and unloading operations of a kind and
magnitude appropriate to the property served thereby. The Planning Director
shall determine the sufficiency of loading space, but in
no case shall the use of such space hinder the free movement of vehicles and
pedestrians over a street, sidewalk, or alley. Minimum requirements shall be as
follows:
Use Space Requirement
     
                                                                          Space
Use                                                                       Requirement
                                                                           
                                                                          One loading
                                                                          berth for
Retail operations, including restaurant and dining facilities within      every
hotels and office buildings, with a total usable floor area of twenty     twenty
thousand square                                                           thousand
Feet or more devoted to that purpose.                                     square feet
                                                                          of floor
                                                                          area.
                                                                           
                                                                          A loading
Retail operations, and all first floor non-residential uses, with gross   space (not
floor area of less than twenty thousand square feet, and all wholesale    necessarily
and light industrial operations with a gross floor                        a full
area of less than ten thousand square feet.                               berth).
                                                                           
                                                                          One loading
                                                                          berth for
                                                                          every one
Office buildings and hotels, with a total usable area of one hundred      hundred
thousand square feet or more devoted to such purposes.                    thousand
                                                                         square feet
                                                                          of floor
                                                                          area.
                                                                           
Industrial and wholesale operations with a gross floor area of ten         
thousand square feet or over and as follows:
   Ten thousand to forty thousand square feet                          One
                                                                           
   Forty thousand to one hundred thousand square feet                  Two
                                                                           
   One hundred sixty thousand to two hundred forty thousand square feetFour
                                                                           
   Two hundred forty thousand to three hundred twenty thousand square  Five
feet.
   Three hundred twenty thousand to four hundred thousand square feet  Six
   Each ninety thousand square feet above four hundred thousand square One
feet.                                                                      
 
(11-20-75, art. 6, 6.01)
ARTICLE VIII. MISCELLANEOUS REGULATIONS
SECTION 22-58 - WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
   Each application for an administrative development approval or a special use
permit shall indicate the methods of potable water supply and wastewater
disposal and/or treatment. Approval from the Dare County Health Department or
State of North Carolina, as applicable, shall be necessary before any building
permit is issued by the Dare County Building Inspector.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-58.1 - SAND DUNE PROVISIONS 
   These regulations shall apply to any property featuring natural topography
that requires grading and/or modification in order to utilize the property.
Before any grading, shaping, or modification of existing natural topography
occurs, an on-site meeting with the Dare County Planning Department and/or
Building Inspector is required to assess the topography, discuss proposed
activities, and proposed stabilization methods that will be required to address
remnant slopes on the property.
   (a)   Sand dunes and their existing contours shall not be damaged,
destroyed, removed, or changed except as specifically exempted below:
      (1)   The area required for the construction and installation of septic
or wastewater improvements as authorized by the Dare County Health Department
or North Carolina Department of Environmental Health.
      (2)   Activities in conjunction with a Dare County building permit as
authorized by the Dare County Building Inspector.
      (3)   Other land disturbing activities in conjunction with subdivision
development or other residential or commercial development as authorized by the
Dare County Planning Department, the Dare County Planning Board or the Dare
County Board of Commissioners.
   (b)   For activities exempted under Section 1 a, b and/or c, the following
standards shall apply:
      (1)   A site plan prepared by a NC licensed engineer or NC licensed
surveyor shall be submitted depicting the existing grades and proposed grades
and areas where retaining walls are needed to stabilize remnant slopes.
      (2)   A horizontal – vertical slope not to exceed 4’ to 1’ shall be
maintained unless the dune-disturbing activity is intended to provide
elevations that are consistent with abutting properties. Before any disturbing
activities commence, silt fencing shall be placed at the bottom of slopes to
prevent erosion of sediment onto adjoining properties and right of ways. Silt
fencing shall remain in place until the final inspection of the property by the
Dare County Planning Department. Depending on the vertical slope, temporary
vegetative matting may be required to stabilize slopes until permanent
stabilization measures are completed. Graded slopes shall be stabilized with
retaining walls or other permanent stabilization improvements prior to issuance
of the Certificate of Occupancy/Certificate of Completion by the Planning
Department.
      (c)   All components of retaining walls shall be located on the subject
property and shall not encroach onto adjoining lots or right-of-ways, either
aboveground or subsurface.
      (d)   Sand shall not be removed from the site unless authorized by the
Dare County Planning Department as part of the development activities.
      (e)   Other proposals for sand dune disturbing activities not
specifically exempted in subsection (a) may be submitted for review as special
uses subject to Planning Board review and Board of Commissioners approval.
      (f)   Unauthorized dune-disturbing activities shall be considered a
violation of this chapter and shall be subject to a fine of $200 for each and
every day the violation continues. Mitigation plans prepared by a NC licensed
engineer or NC licensed surveyor shall be required for any unauthorized dune-
disturbing activity.
   These standards do not apply to those sand dunes that are protected by the
NC Coastal Area Management Act and subject to those State regulations.
(Am. Ord. passed 8-19-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-58.2 (RESERVED)
SECTION 22-58.3 (RESERVED)
SECTION 22-58.4 - SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ELECTRONIC GAMING OPERATIONS (Adopted
8-20-2012)
   (a)   Electronic gaming machines or devices may be permitted as an accessory
business use in the VC-2, C-1, C-2, C-2H, C-3, I-1, S-1, CS, MH-B, SP-C, MC-
2 and Hwy 345 zoning districts of unincorporated Dare County according to the
following conditions:
      (1)   Electronic gaming machines shall be located within same building as
the principal business use. The area in which electronic gaming machines are
located shall be accessed through the same means of ingress/egress as the
principal use business.
      (2)   The maximum number of electronic gaming machines shall not exceed
two (2) machines.
      (3)   For multiunit/multitenant commercial sites where more than one unit
is located within one large commercial structure, the cumulative total of
machines shall not exceed two (2) electronic gaming
machines for the entire structure. For commercial group developments, the
cumulative total of machines located within all of the buildings within the
commercial group development site shall not exceed two (2) electronic gaming
machines.
      (4)   The hours of operation for the accessory electronic gaming
operation shall be the same as hours of operation for the principal business
use in which it is located.
      (5)   Public restrooms for patrons of the electronic gaming operation
shall be provided within the principal business use in which it is located.
      (6)   The placement of electronic gaming machines as an accessory use
within a principal business use shall be subject to review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Director. A copy of the floor plan and site plan of the
principal business use depicting the area where the electronic gaming machines/
device will be located shall be submitted to the Planning Director for
approval. A review fee of $50 for each proposed electronic gaming machine shall
be submitted at the time the floor plan for the accessory use is submitted to
the Planning Director.
      (7)   Off-street parking shall be provided at a ratio of one 10' x 20'
space for each electronic gaming machine/device in addition to the other
required parking spaces for the principal use. An up-to-date copy of a site
plan prepared by a North Carolina licensed surveyor or engineer shall be
submitted to the Planning Director for approval.
      (8)   Any electronic gaming operation shall be not located within a
minimum of 500 feet, measured in a straight line in any direction from all
property lines of the principal business use site, from any residential
dwelling including mobile homes; any church, place of worship or other
religious building; any child care home or facility; public or private school;
public playground or park; or another principal business use that includes
electronic gaming machines. The applicant shall submit an up-to-date, straight-
line drawing prepared by a North Carolina registered surveyor or engineer that
depicts each use that is within 500 feet of the principal business use site to
demonstrate compliance with this separation standard.
      (9)   On-premise alcohol consumption is prohibited within the area
dedicated as the electronic gaming operation. Signage to this effect shall be
posted in a conspicuous manner to alert all users of this restriction.
      (10)   Users of the electronic gaming machines shall be at least 18 years
of age. Signage to the effect shall be posted in a conspicuous manner to alert
all users of this age restriction.
      (11)   Any electronic gaming operations that existed in unincorporated
Dare County before August 20, 2012 shall be submitted for review according to
the conditions of this section and will be granted 24 months from August 20,
2012 in which to bring their electronic gaming operations into compliance with
these regulations. (Adopted 8-20-2012)
SECTION 22-58.5 - FOOD STANDS AND MOBILE FOOD UNITS (Adopted 3-19-2018)
Intent and Effect: The section shall apply to the review, approval and
operation of any food stand and/or mobile food unit as permitted in the
individual zoning districts of unincorporated Dare County. These regulations
shall apply to any food stand authorized by Dare County after March 19, 2018.
Mobile food units: Mobile food units as defined in Section
22-2 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance may be authorized as a food stand
subject to the conditions and procedures set forth in this section.
Approval procedures: A food stand listed as a "permitted" use in the applicable
zoning district shall be subject to administrative approval by the Dare County
Planning Department. A food stand listed as a "special" use in the applicable
zoning district shall be subject to Planning Board review and Board of
Commissioners approval according to the provisions of Section
22-68 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance. A site plan depicting the location
of the proposed food stand shall be provided to the Dare County Planning
Department as part of the review process. Approval from the Dare County Health
Department shall be obtained and proof of the Health Department approval
submitted to the Planning Department.
Location of mobile food units: Mobile food units shall be located on a parcel
of land in conjunction with an existing commercial structure or use. A maximum
of five mobile food units may be located on a site in conjunction with an
existing commercial use. Written approval from the owner of the commercial use
shall be submitted as part of the site plan review process. Mobile food units
shall be separated by a minimum of ten feet from other mobile food units and
other structures.
Non-mobile food units: A permanent structure may be used as a non-mobile food
stand and may be permitted subject to the review procedures set forth in this
section and the applicable zoning district.
Seating: Any food stand, both mobile and non- mobile structures shall be
limited to the seating restrictions of this section. An unenclosed, outdoor
seating area may be provided for customers of the food stand. The maximum
number of seats shall not exceed eight seats per food stand, mobile and non-
mobile. The location of the seating shall be identified on the site plan
submitted for the food stand and seating shall not be located in any setback
area, parking area, or stormwater management area. A food stand shall not
feature indoor seating.
Public Restrooms: Any food stand, both permanent and mobile food units, that
provides outdoor seating shall provide public restrooms on the same site for
use by their customers and employees. Public restrooms of the affiliated
business or restaurant may be used to meet this requirement if the restrooms
meet the requirements of the North Carolina Plumbing Code. Portable toilets
shall not be used to meet this public restroom requirement. The use of public
restrooms may be shared by mobile food units if outdoor seating is provided at
their location.
Setbacks: Any food stand both mobile food units and non-mobile food units,
shall meet the zoning setbacks for a principal use structure applicable to the
site.
Parking for non-mobile food stands: Ten parking spaces shall be provided for
use by the patrons of the food stand.
Parking for mobile food units: Ten parking spaces shall be identified for use
by a mobile food unit. Parking spaces for the existing business affiliated with
the mobile food unit may be approved for use if the hours of operation for the
mobile food unit and the existing business do not overlap or if the existing
business has excess parking spaces that can be assigned to the mobile food
unit. If the parking for the existing business cannot be used, ten parking
spaces shall be provided on the site for use by a mobile food unit. For each
additional mobile food unit located on the site, two parking spaces per mobile
food unit shall be provided in addition to the initial ten parking spaces. The
parking requirement for additional mobile food units may be waived by the
Planning Director based upon a review of the parking needs of the existing
business but in no instance shall less than ten parking spaces be identified
for use by mobile food units.
Signage: A separate freestanding business sign for the food stand shall not be
displayed. Temporary signage or sandwich board signs shall not be used.
Advertising for the food stand may be incorporated into the freestanding sign
for the existing business if such sign does not exceed the allowable square
footage as established by the Dare County Sign Ordinance. Signage on the
outside of the food stand attached to the unit may be authorized by the
Planning Department during the approval process. One flag as defined in the
Dare County Sign Ordinance may be displayed at the food stand location
according to the provisions of the Dare County Sign Ordinance. Any flag
displayed at the food stand shall not interfere with line of sight clearances
in parking areas.
Solid Waste: Trash receptacles for customer and employee use shall be provided
onsite by the food stand operator. Approval to use the solid waste containers
of the affiliated business shall be submitted as part of the approval process.
Solid waste containers provided at public beach accesses or other public sites
shall not be used.
Hours of Operation: Hours of operation for any mobile or non-mobile food stand
may occur between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. daily, seven days a
week.
Other conditions: Any mobile food unit authorized as a food stand shall be kept
in a "ready to move" state and shall not have the wheels or tires removed from
the unit.
Pre-fabricated accessory structures intended for storage purposes and
constructed off-site or factory-built shall not be used as food stands.
No drive-thru window service whereby patrons are served while seated in vehicle
shall be permitted at a food stand.
Nothing in these regulations shall be interpreted to apply to catering services
or special event food vendors as approved by the Dare County Health Department
or to emergency response feeding services offered as part of emergency response
operations. (Adopted 3-19-2018; Amended 10-18-2021)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2021)
SECTION 22-58.6 - ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (Adopted 10-15-2018)
An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) may be located on a residential lot in the
following zoning districts:
Hatteras Island: R-1, R-2, R-2A, R-2H, R2-AH C-2, C2-H, C-3, I-1, S-1
Colington/KDH Outside: R-1, R-2, R2-B, VC-2, C-3
Manteo Outside: R-1, RS-6, RS-8, R-2, R-3, C-3, I-1, SNC
Wanchese: WR-1, VR, BT, RB, NC MLM, WVC, MC-1, MC-2, and Highway 345
Manns Harbor: MH-A, MH-B
East Lake: ELR, ELVC, ELCS, ELNH
The following standards shall apply to all ADUs except for those districts in
Wanchese and East Lake which have ADU standards included as part of the
district regulations.
1.   Only one ADU may be permitted per lot in conjunction with a principal
dwelling unit. The residential lot may contain other accessory structures as
authorized by the applicable zoning district. The construction of an ADU on a
lot does not constitute a group housing development as established in Section
22-31 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance.
2.   An ADU may be attached to a primary dwelling unit or may be a detached
separate structure. An ADU shall not exceed 50% of the floor area of the
primary use structure or a maximum of 1200 square feet of heated and non-heated
space unless the applicable zoning district for the lot establishes a different
ADU maximum size limitation. The size limitation shall not apply if existing
floor area within a primary dwelling unit is internally remodeled or existing
interior space is converted for use as an ADU.
3.   Lot coverage – Lot coverage may be increased for the footprint area of an
ADU but in no instance shall lot coverage exceed 38% to accommodate the
construction of an ADU unless the applicable zoning district for the lot
establishes a different ADU lot coverage limitation. No increase in lot
coverage is authorized for those ADUs that are located within the interior of
an existing structure.
   This increase in lot coverage is for the ADU structure and shall not be used
for other structures or impervious coverages. If existing lot coverage of the
property exceeds 38%, then reductions in lot coverage shall be made in order to
accommodate the ADU.
4.   Two 10' x 20' parking spaces shall be provided on the residential lot
outside of any dedicated right-of-way or access easement. Parking shall be of
permable surfaces as allowed for single family dwellings in Section
22-56 of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance. The location of the ADU parking
shall be approved by the Dare County Planning Department during the permit
review process. Existing parking may be used if excess parking for the primary
dwelling unit is available.
5.   Any ADU shall be constructed according to NC State building codes and Dare
County floodplain management regulations.
6.   Recreational vehicles, travel trailers and/or manufactured homes shall not
be used or approved as an ADU.
7.   An ADU shall be located on a residential lot according to the applicable
principal dwelling use setbacks. An existing accessory structure may be
converted to an ADU if compliance with the principal dwelling setbacks, ADU
size limitation, and applicable Dare County floodplain management regulations
can be met. Any ADU shall be constructed to be complaint with the building
height of the applicable zoning district.
8.   Any ADU approved under these guidelines shall be used for long-term
occupancy as defined in Section
22-2 of the Zoning Ordinance. Any ADU approved under these guidelines shall not
be used for commercial or business activity. However, this limitation shall not
prevent the ADU from being authorized as a home occupation according to the
definition in Section
22-2.
9.   An ADU shall not be subdivided or segregated in ownership from the
principal dwelling unit. (Adopted 10-15-2018)
The following standards shall apply to ADUs only located in the R-1 zoning
districts.
1.   Any ADU constructed in the R-1, the parcel shall be accessed from a state
maintained road, private road, publicly dedicated road, and/or a 20' easement.
(Adopted 4-20-2022)
(Am. Ord. passed 4-20-2022)
SECTION 22-58.7 - WORKFORCE HOUSING UNITS
   A workforce housing unit (WHU) is a dwelling constructed in conjunction with
a commercial structure. Workforce housing units may be located on a commercial
lot in the following zoning districts:
   Hatteras Island: S-1, C-2, C2-H, C-3, I-1
   Colington/KDH Outside: VC-2, C-3
   Manteo Outside: C-3, I-1, SNC
   Wanchese: RB, NC, HML, WVC, MC-1, MC-2, and Highway 345
   Manns Harbor: MH-A, MH-B
   East Lake: ELVC, ELCS
   The following standards shall apply:
   (a)   A WHU may be attached to the principal commercial structure, located
within a commercial structure, or detached from the principal commercial use
structure and shall be subject to administrative review by the Dare County
Planning Department. More than one WHU may be located on a lot with a principal
commercial use if the dimensional requirements as set forth in this section are
met. If two or more WHU units are proposed for construction in addition to the
principal commercial structure, than such projects shall be subject to special
use review. A site plan of the proposed WHU and other existing improvements on
the property shall be submitted to the Planning Department for approval
according to the applicable review procedures of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (b)   Lot coverage- 60%. A WHU shall be located on a commercial lot
according to the applicable principal use setbacks. A WHU shall be separated
from commercial structures or other structures on the lot by fifteen feet.
   (c)   Existing on-site parking may be utilized for the WHU if only one unit
is proposed. Any WHU project subject to special use review may be required to
provide additional parking as determined during SUP process.
   (d)   A WHU shall be constructed according to North Carolina building code
and Dare County floodplain management regulations.
   (e)   Recreational vehicles, travel trailers and/or manufactured homes shall
not be used or approved as a WHU.
   (f)   An existing accessory structure may be converted to a WHU if
compliance with the principal structure setbacks, separation distances, and
applicable Dare County floodplain management regulations can be met. A WHU
shall not exceed the building height of the applicable zoning district.
   (g)   A WHU approved under these guidelines shall be used for workforce
housing and not for additional commercial or business activities.
   (h)   A WHU shall not be subdivided or segregated in ownership from the
principal dwelling unit.
   (i)   A WHU shall not be used for short-term occupancy rentals during the
time period of April 1 to October 31 annually. A memorandum of agreement
outlining the requirements applicable to the WHU, including the short-term
occupancy limitations, shall be executed by the property owner at the time of
permit approval by Dare County.
(Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-58.8 - EDUCATIONAL HOUSING PROJECTS
   Educational housing projects are residential developments that provide
housing opportunities for employees and students of educational facilities
located in Dare County.
   (a)   Educational housing projects shall be constructed on property owned
and/or leased by Dare County, the Dare County Board of Education, the UNC
Coastal Studies Institute or the College of the Albemarle. Partnerships or
cooperative agreements between these public agencies and with private-sector
agencies or individuals may be authorized as educational housing projects.
   (b)   Educational housing projects may be located in the following zoning
districts: RS-6, RS-8, R-2, R-2A, R-2B, R-2H, R2-AH, R-3, MH-A, MH-B, ELR,
ELVC, SNC, C-2, C-2H, C-3, I-1, ELCS, S-1, RB, NC, WVC, HML, MC-1, MC-2, and
H345. In the R-1 district, university campuses are special uses and any housing
proposed for addition to a university campus will be reviewed and approved as a
part of the university campus. The regulations set forth in this section shall
not apply to any university campus in an R-1 zoned area.
   (c)   Educational housing projects may include single family homes, duplex
structures, or multifamily structures as permitted in the applicable zoning
district. Multifamily structures cannot be constructed as part of an education
housing project unless the underlying zoning district permits multifamily
structures.
   (d)   Density. Overall density for EHPs shall not exceed 12 units for per
acre for those projects served by onsite wastewater systems and 15 units per
acre for those projects connected to municipal central wastewater facilities.
   (e)   Setbacks. The setbacks of the applicable zoning districts shall apply.
   (f)   Minimum parcel size: 1 acre.
   (g)   Any building approved as part of an EHP shall not exceed the building
height of the applicable zoning district.
   (h)   Parking shall be provided at a rate of one space per bedroom. A
reduction of 25% of the overall parking may be applied for structures designed
for occupancy by students.
   (i)   Lot coverage: 45% for EHPs served by onsite wastewater systems; 60%
for EHPs connected to municipal central wastewater treatment facilities.
   (j)   EHPs shall be subject to review and approval as special use permits by
the Board of Commissioners.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-58.9 - SPECIAL USE SUBDIVISIONS
   (a)   Intent. These regulations shall apply to subdivisions platted at a
reduced minimum lot size in to be used with dwelling square footage limitation.
These regulations shall apply in the following zoning districts: R-2, R-2A, R-
2B, R-2H, R2-AH, R-3, RS-6, RS-8, SP-2, SP-C VC-2, C-2, C-2H, C-3, 1-1, S-1,
CS, ELNH, ELR, MHA, MHB, BT, RB, HML, NC, WVC, MC-1, MC-2, and Highway 345.
   (b)   Overall minimum parcel size. The overall parcel submitted for approval
as a special use subdivision shall contain a minimum of three acres of area not
classified as coastal wetlands by the NC Division of Coastal Management and/or
freshwater wetlands under the jurisdiction of the U.S Army Corps of Engineers.
   (c)   Minimum individual lot size:
      (1)   12,500 square feet of contiguous area, exclusive of any soils
classified as coastal wetlands or freshwater wetlands by the NC Division of
Coastal Management and/or the US Army Corps of Engineers for a lot served by a
centralized water system. The centralized water may be designed to serve the
specific subdivision and installed as part of the subdivision infrastructure
improvements or may be a system operated by a local government or other public
agency.
      (2)   15,000 square feet of contiguous area, exclusive of any soils
classified as coastal wetlands or freshwater wetlands by the NC Division of
Coastal Management and/or the US Army Corps of Engineers for lots served by
individual on-site private well for potable water.
   (d)   Lots platted as part of existing subdivisions shall not be grouped
together to meet the three acre minimum parcel size for development as a
special use subdivision.
   (e)   Use of property. One detached residential dwelling per individual lot
not to exceed 1,200 square feet of heated/conditioned space. Accessory
structures may be constructed on the property in conjunction with the dwelling
and used for parking or storage only. Accessory structures shall not contain
any heated/conditioned space in excess of the dwelling square footage
limitation of 1,200 square feet of heated/conditioned space.
   (f)   Occupancy of dwellings. Any dwelling constructed as part of Section
22-58.9 shall be occupied on a long-term basis as defined in the Dare County
Zoning Ordinance.
   (g)   Parking. One 10' x 20' parking space for each bedroom shall be
provided on site. 50% of the required parking shall be of an impervious surface
such as concrete or asphalt. Permeable or pervious concrete does not qualify as
an impervious surface. Asphalt millings or “crush and run” shall not be used
for residential parking.
   (h)   Review procedures. Any proposed special use subdivision shall be
subject to review by the Dare County Planning Board for compliance with Chapter
153 and approval by the Dare County Board of Commissioners as a special use
permit and subject to quasi-judicial proceedings. The special use permit and
subdivision plat shall be recorded in the Dare County Register of Deeds.
Restrictive covenants stating the conditions of approval, including the maximum
dwelling size of 1,200 square feet of heated/conditioned space, shall be
recorded in conjunction with the special use permit and subdivision plat.
   (i)   Road access. Any lot developed as part of a special use subdivision
shall have frontage on an existing state-maintained road. If new road
improvements are proposed as part of the conditional use division, the roads
shall be dedicated as public roads and constructed according to the road
standards of the Dare County Subdivision Ordinance. Maintenance of roads
constructed as part of a special use subdivision shall be the responsibility of
property owners in the division until such time that the roads are accepted
into the NC State road system.
   (j)   Lot coverage. 30% of the total lot area of each individual lot.
   (k)   Setbacks. Front yard: 25 feet; Side yard: 10 feet; Corner Side yard:
15 feet; Rear yard: 20 feet shall apply to each individual lot.
   (l)   Building height. Any dwelling constructed as part of a special
subdivision shall be constructed to the building height of the applicable
zoning district.
(Am. Ord. 9-16-2019; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-58.10 - PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS AND PORTABLE STORAGE UNIT
SERVICES (Adopted 1-2-2024)
   Portable Storage Unit Services may be offered as accessory uses to mini-
storage facilities, storage warehouses, and storage/warehousing and storage
centers in the following zoning districts: CS, I-1, HML, MC-2, MC-1, C-2, C-3,
MH-A and S-1. Subject to the provisions of Section
22-31 Group Developments, and the following conditions:
   (a)   Portable Storage Containers shall not be used for residential or
commercial occupancy.
   (b)   Portable Storage Containers may only be located upon a residential or
commercial property for fourteen (14) consecutive days unless associated with
construction at the property pursuant to duly obtained development permits.
Portable storage containers associated with development permits must be secured
and installed in compliance with the Dare County Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance and must be removed from the site within thirty (30) days from the
expiration of permits or the issuance of a certificate of compliance or
certificate of occupancy. No more than two (2) Portable Storage Containers may
be located upon a property at the same time. The property owner upon which the
Portable Storage Container is located is responsible for complying with this
provision.
   (c)   Portable Storage Containers located on the site of Portable Storage
Container Service shall be securely anchored and in compliance with the Dare
County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance if on site for more than fourteen (14)
consecutive days. Customer access to Portable Storage Containers located on the
site of a Portable Storage Container Service shall be restricted to normal
business hours and shall only occur in the presence of an employee of the
Portable Storage Container Service.
   (d)   Portable Storage Containers located on the site of Portable Storage
Container service shall be kept in a designated area on the property and in
compliance with applicable setbacks; this designated area shall count as lot
coverage. Portable storage containers stored on site shall not be stacked or
stored vertically atop another.
   (e)   Signage on Portable Storage Containers shall be limited to 12 square
feet in total sign area.
   (f)   Portable storage containers shall be designed and/or constructed to
meet the North Carolina Building Code requirements for High Wind Zones
applicable in Dare County and certified by a North Carolina licensed engineer.
(Adopted 1-2-2024)
SECTION 22-59 - (RESERVED)
SECTION 22-59.1 - DISH ANTENNAS
   (a)   Intent - The intent of this section is to provide for proper location,
height, and size of dish antennas so as not to impose unreasonable limitations
on or prevent the reception of satellite delivered signals by receive-only
antennas.
   (b)   General requirements – A building permit is required when installing
or moving a dish antenna.
   (c)   Location in yards – In zoned areas, a dish antenna shall be installed
in the rear and side yards only.
   (d)   Setback requirements - The setback of a dish antenna shall be measured
from the center mounting post supporting the antenna.
      (1)   The minimum required setback for dish antennas from side lot lines
shall be the same as for the principal building, but in no case shall any part
of the antenna be located closer than 5 feet of the property line.
      (2)   The minimum required setback for dish antennas from the rear lot
line shall be 10 feet, but in no case shall any part of the antenna be located
closer than 5 feet to the property line.
   (e)   Maximum height requirements - The following height restrictions shall
apply: 
      (1)   In residential districts and in areas zoned S-1, the maximum height
of a dish antenna installed on the ground shall be 15 feet. If installed on the
roof, the dish shall not be larger than 4 feet in diameter; shall not project
higher than 5 feet above the actual height of the building; and shall be set
back from the front and sides of the building at least 10 feet.
      (2)   In the SED-1 zoning district, dish antennas shall be roof-mounted
only and shall meet the standards listed above for residential and S-
1 districts.
      (3)   In commercial districts, the maximum height of dish antennas on the
ground shall be 20 feet. If installed on the roof, the dish shall not be larger
than 12 feet in diameter; shall not project higher than 10 feet above the
actual height of the building; and shall be set back from the front and sides
of the building at least 15 feet. Dish antennas may be placed on a
communications tower and/or water tower. Commercial dish antennas shall not be
used for any advertising purposes.
   (f)   The standards for this section shall apply to all dish antennas
installed after November 21, 1994. All dish antennas existing prior to November
21, 1994 shall be considered pre-existing and are exempt from these
regulations.
SECTION 22-60 - OUTDOOR LIGHTING
Outdoor lighting for yards, signs, advertising structures, parking lots and
other areas must be oriented or shielded so that the light and glare reflects
away from streets and adjacent property. (11-20-75, art. 6, 6.05)
SECTION 22-61 - PROHIBITED USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT PARKED OR STORED
ELSEWHERE THAN IN APPROVED TRAILER PARKS
For the purpose of this ordinance, major recreational equipment is defined as
including boats and boat trailers, pickup campers or coaches, designed to be
mounted on automotive vehicles, motorized dwellings, tent trailers and the
like, and cases or boxes used for
transporting recreational equipment whether occupied by such equipment or not.
Major recreational equipment parked or stored on residential premises or in any
location other than approved travel trailer park shall not be for living,
sleeping or housekeeping purposes. (11-20-75, art. 6, 6.06)
SECTION 22-62 - ACCESS TO U.S. HIGHWAY 158 BYPASS, U.S. HIGHWAY 64 AND U.S.
HIGHWAY 264
Due to the limited amount of land available within the zoned areas of the
county for major thoroughfare rights-of-way and the traffic hazard involved in
frequent entrances and exists from a major thoroughfare, it is the intent of
this chapter to keep driveways and street intersections along U.S. Highway158
Bypass, U.S. Highway 64 and U.S. Highway 264 to the minimum possible. In any
district established by this chapter where a lot abutting U.S. Highway 264 also
abuts any other Highways dedicated public right-of-way, such right-of-way shall
be used for access rather than the U.S. Highway. (2-6-78, 4.)
SECTION 22-62.1 - DISCLOSURE OF FLOOD AND OTHER HAZARDS
   (a)   Any land proposed for development which is located, wholly or
partially, in a special flood hazard area as designated on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map for Dare County shall include the following certificate on the site
plan that is submitted for approval by the Dare County Planning Director:
   “This property, or portions of this property, is located within a special
flood hazard area as designated on the Flood Insurance Rate Map for Dare
County. Location in a special flood hazard area represents a one percent (1%)
or greater chance of being flooded in any given year. Flood insurance may be
required by lending institutions for structures constructed on property located
in special flood hazard areas.”
   (b)   Any land proposed for development which is located, wholly or
partially, in a Coastal Outer Barrier Resources Areas as determined by the U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, the following certificate shall be included on the
final plat submitted for approval by Dare County Planning Director:
   “This property, or portions of this property, is located within a Coastal
Outer Barrier Resources Act (CBRA) zone as determined by the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service. Location in a CBRA zone precludes the availability of
federally-insured loans and the purchase of federal flood insurance through the
National Flood Insurance Program.” (Adopted 1-20-2015)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
ARTICLE IX. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
DIVISION 1. GENERALLY
SECTION 22-63 - ROLE OF PLANNING DIRECTOR AND PLANNING DEPARTMENT STAFF
The Planning Director, designated by the County Manager, shall administer and
enforce this chapter. The Director may be assisted by others as assigned by the
County Manager. The duties of the Planning Director may include, but are not
limited to, drafting plans and development regulations for adoption;
determining whether applications for development approvals are complete;
receipt and processing applications for development approvals; providing
notices of applications and hearings; making decisions and determinations
regarding development regulation implementation; determining whether
applications for development approvals meet applicable standards as established
by Dare County; conducting inspections; issuing or denying certificates of
compliance; enforcing development regulations, including issuing notices of
violation and orders to correct violations; recommending initiation of judicial
actions against actual or threatened violations; keeping adequate records; and
any other actions that may be required to adequately enforce the laws and
development regulations for unincorporated Dare County.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-63.1 - PERMITTED USES AND SPECIAL USES
Before construction or development activity commences, development approval
from Dare County shall be secured. The various types of review and approval
processes shall be as follows:
   1.   Permitted Uses: The Dare County Zoning Ordinance establishes permitted
uses in each zoning district that are subject to review and approval by the
Dare County Planning Director or the Planning staff under the direction of the
Planning Director. The procedures for administrative development approval are
established in Section
22-64.
   2.   Special Use Permits: Special use permits are subject to quasi-judicial
procedures and decisions are issued by the Dare County Board of Commissioners.
Specific requirements for swearing in of witnesses, handling of evidence, and
other procedures established by G.S. Ch. 160D are required. Special use permits
are subject to the evidentiary hearing process. Group developments as
established in Section
22-31, cluster home developments as established in Section
22-31.1 and temporary uses as established in Section
22-68 are subject to quasi-judicial review as special use permits.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-64 - APPROVAL OF PERMITTED USES AND DETERMINATIONS
   (a)   Administrative development approvals shall be secured for construction
activity or development activity associated with any permitted use in the
applicable zoning district for the subject property. Such approval shall be
issued by the Planning Director or other Planning official as designated by the
Planning Director. Following the issuance of an administrative development
approval, an application for a building permit may be submitted to the Dare
County Building Inspector. Issuance of development approval by the Planning
Director does not supersede or eliminate the need to secure a building permit
as established by G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 11. Forms and applications needed to
secure administrative development approval shall be provided by the Planning
Director.
   (b)   A development approval shall be issued in writing and may be delivered
in print or electronic form. Applications for development approvals may be made
by the landowner, a lessee or person holding an option or contract to purchase
or lease the land, or an authorized agent of the landowner. An easement holder
may apply for development approvals if authorized in the easement agreement.
   (c)   Determinations: Determinations on the application or provisions of the
Zoning Ordinance may be issued by the Planning Director upon request by a
landowner or other parties as appropriate. The Planning Director shall give
written notice to the landowner of a determination on development approval and
to the party who sought the determination if different from the owner. The
notice procedures of Section
22-72 shall be followed.
   (d)   Duration of Administrative Development Approval
      1.   Administrative development approval is valid for one year from the
date of development approval. The approval shall expire unless work authorized
by the development approval has been substantially commenced as defined in
Section
22-2.
      2.   Administrative approvals of shorter duration may be approved for
temporary land uses, special event or temporary signs and similar development
activities.
      3.   If after commencement, work is discontinued for a period of twelve
months, the development approval shall immediately expire. These time periods
shall be suspended during any appeal period.
      4.   No work authorized by a development approval that has expired shall
be performed until a new development approval has been secured.
   (e)   Changes: After an administrative development approval has been issued,
no deviations from the terms of the application or development approval shall
be made until written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been
obtained. The same review and approval process used for the original approval
shall be followed for any major modification. Minor modifications shall be
exempt from the full application and approval process and may be approved by
the Planning Director in writing. Minor modifications may include decreases in
square footage amounts of any proposed structure, revised parking lot layouts,
reconfiguration of proposed site improvements in response to North Carolina
Fire Codes or other state-level review, decreases in lot coverage limitations,
or other modifications of a similar nature. Increased density or height,
increased gross floor area, change of use, or the addition of other structures
shall not be considered minor modifications.
   (f)   Inspections: The Planning staff may inspect work authorized by a
development approval to assure that work is being done in accordance with the
terms of the development approval and other applicable State and local laws.
Staff shall have authority to enter the premises at all reasonable hours for
the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action upon presentation of
proper credentials provided the appropriate consent has been given for areas
not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection warrant has been
secured.
   (g)   Revocation of Administrative Development Approvals: Development
approvals may be revoked by notifying the approval holder by written notice
stating the reasons for the revocation. The same process used for development
approval, including notice, shall be followed in the revocation process.
Development approvals shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply
with the requirements of any development regulation or any state law delegated
to Dare County for enforcement purposes; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the approval. Any development approval
mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may be
revoked. The revocation of a development approval by a staff member may be
appealed to the Dare County Board of Adjustment according to the provisions of
Section
22-69.1 of this ordinance.
   (h)   Certificate of Zoning Compliance: Dare County may make a final
inspection upon completion of work or activity undertaken in conjunction with a
development approval and issue a certificate of zoning compliance if the
completed work complies with all applicable state and local laws and with the
terms of the permit approval. No building, structure or use of land that is
subject to a building permit shall be occupied or used until a certificate of
zoning compliance has been issued by the Planning Director. A certificate of
zoning compliance does not replace the requirement for a certificate of
occupancy for any building or structure required by G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 11.
A copy of the certificate of zoning compliance shall be presented to the
building inspector prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy. A
temporary certificate of zoning compliance may be issued during alteration or
construction for partial compliance of a building pending completion. A
temporary certificate shall be issued for a period not to exceed six months and
shall clearly be marked as "TEMPORARY" and list any conditions or limitations
to protect the safety of the occupants and the public.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-65 - PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL USE PERMIT REVIEW AND APPROVAL
The Board of Commissioners may hear and decide special use permits where such
special uses are specified by this chapter. Special use permits shall be
subject to quasi-judicial procedures as set forth in Section
22-70. Reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards may be imposed upon
these permits. Where appropriate, such conditions may include requirements that
street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the public and that provisions
be made for recreational space and facilities. Conditions cannot be imposed on
the applicant for which Dare County does not have the statutory authority to
impose. Written consent to conditions shall be secured as part of the special
use permit process to ensure enforceability of conditions.
   (a)   Application Process: A written application for a special use permit
shall be submitted to the Planning Director for processing according to the
schedule established by Dare County. Such written application shall indicate
the section of the development regulations under which a special use permit is
being sought and shall contain the information required by the appropriate
development regulation and other information as may be required to insure
compliance with this section and applicable development regulations.
   (b)   Planning Board Review: The Planning Board shall review any special use
permit applications as a preliminary forum and provide a statement of review to
the Board of Commissioners, which may include a recommendation on reasonable
and appropriate conditions. However, no part of the forum or Planning Board
recommendation shall be used as basis for the decision rendered by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (c)   Notice: Notice procedures for evidentiary hearings in Section
22-72 of this chapter shall be implemented during the review of special use
permits.
   (d)   SUP Application Materials: The Planning Director or other Planning
staff shall transmit to the Board all applicable reports, site plans and
written materials relevant to the special use permit application. The
administrative materials may be distributed to the Board members prior to the
evidentiary hearing if at the same time the materials are distributed to the
applicant and to the landowner if that person is not the applicant. The
administrative materials may be distributed in written or electronic form.
Objections to the inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be
made before or during the evidentiary hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections
shall be made by the Board at the meeting.
   (e)   Quasi-judicial Hearing Standards of Review: The Board of Commissioners
shall not approve a special use permit unless it makes written findings that
the regulations of this section that set forth specific standards for the use
have been met. The Board may consider the type of use, size of the use, size of
the property and other relevant factors in evaluating the permit application.
The applicant will not bear the burden of proving that all of the site
standards (as listed below) have been met; however, the applicant will be
required to present evidence sufficient to rebut any evidence presented that
the site standards would not be met or that a condition is necessary. The
applicant may be required in his/her rebuttal, to show that the proposed use
will:
      1.   Not materially endanger the public health, safety, or welfare.
      2.   Not substantially injure the value of adjoining property; or be a
public necessity.
      3.   Will be in harmony with the area in which it is located and in
general conformity with the Land Use Plan.
      4.   Meet all required conditions and specifications.
   (f)   Voting on Special Use Permit Applications: A majority of the Board
members shall be required to decide any special use permit decision.
   (g)   The issuance of a special use permit does not relieve the applicant of
the need for additional building permits or other permit approvals as may be
required by other applicable laws. As part of the approval, Dare County may
require a special use permit be recorded in the Dare County Register of Deeds.
The approval of a special use permit shall run with the land and not be
affected by a change in ownership of the property.
   (h)   Inspections: The Planning Director or designee may inspect work
authorized by a special use permit to assure that work is being done in
accordance with the terms of the special use approval and other applicable
state and local laws. Staff shall have authority to enter the premises at all
reasonable hours for the purposes of inspection or other enforcement action
upon presentation of proper credentials provided the appropriate consent has
been given for areas not open to the public or that an appropriate inspection
warrant has been secured.
   (i)   Certificate of Zoning Compliance: Dare County may make final
inspection upon completion of work or activity undertaken in conjunction with a
special use permit approval and issue a certificate of zoning compliance if the
completed work complies with all applicable state and local laws and with the
terms of the special use permit approval. No building, structure or use of land
that is subject to a building permit shall be occupied or used until a
certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the Planning Director. A
certificate of zoning compliance for a special use permit does not replace the
requirement for a certificate of occupancy for any building or structure
required by G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 11. A copy of the certificate of zoning
compliance shall be presented to the building inspector prior to the issuance
of the certificate of occupancy.
   (j)   Revocation of Special Use Permit Approval: Special use permit approval
may be revoked by the Dare County Board of Commissioners. The same process for
approval of a special use permit, including notice and hearing, shall be
followed in the revocation of any special use permit. Special use permit
approval shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the approved
application, plans or specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the
requirements of any development regulations or any State law delegated to Dare
County for enforcement purposes; or for false statements or misrepresentations
made in securing the approval.
   (k)   Changes: After a special use permit approval has been issued, no
deviations from the terms of the application or special use permit approval
shall be made until written approval of proposed changes or deviations has been
obtained. The same review and approval process of any major modification shall
be followed. Minor modifications shall be exempt from the full application and
approval process and may be approved by the Planning Director in writing. Minor
modifications may include decreases in square footage amounts of any proposed
structure; revised parking lot layouts; reconfiguration of proposed site
improvements in response to North Carolina fire codes or other required state
agency permit; decreases in lot coverage amounts; or other minor modifications
of a similar nature. Increased density or height, increased gross floor area,
change of use or the addition of other structures shall not be considered minor
modifications. If multiple parcels of land are subject to a special use permit,
the owners of individual parcels may apply for permit modifications so long as
the modifications do not result in the other properties failing to meet the
terms of the special use permit or regulations. Any modifications approved
shall only be applicable to those properties whose owners apply for the
modification.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021; Am. Ord. passed 2-3-2025)
SECTION 22-66 - HEALTH DEPARTMENT APPROVAL
As may be required by North Carolina law, documentation of an approved
wastewater system shall be required before a Dare County building permit is
issued by the Building Inspector. (11-20-75, art. 10, 10.03)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-67 - FORMS AND APPLICATIONS
All applications for administrative development approvals, special use permits
and/or building permits shall be accompanied by plans drawn to scale and sealed
by a North Carolina design professional unless otherwise directed by the Dare
County Planning Director. The plans shall depict the actual dimensions of the
property; the actual sizes and locations of any existing buildings and site
improvements on the lot; the location and dimension of any proposed building
and other site improvements; existing and proposed uses of the land; number of
families and/or units the structure is designed to accommodate; existing and
proposed conditions of the land including topographical elevations; elevations
of finished floors, proposed parking layouts; setback and other dimensional
measurements and any other information as deemed necessary by the Planning
Director or Building Inspector in order to review and approve the application.
(11-20-75, art. 10, 10.04)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-68 - TEMPORARY USES
The Board of Commissioners may approve as special uses under the application
provisions of section 22-65 the following temporary uses, notwithstanding other
restrictions of this chapter but including such additional conditions and
safeguards as may be required by the Commissioners as a provision of such
approval:
   (a)   Temporary real estate sales offices may be permitted in any
residential district for on-site sales of land or residences located only with
the subdivisions within which such offices are located. Any such temporary use
must be terminated no more than thirty days from the date that eighty percent
of the lots or residences within that subdivision are sold.
   (b)   Temporary construction offices may be permitted in any district to
provide on-site quarters for the management and security of construction
projects only. Any such temporary use must be terminated no more than 30 days
from the date that construction is completed.
   (c)   Any permitted use in a commercial area may occupy a modular unit
temporarily while construction of a permanent building on the site is pending,
provided the following conditions are met in addition to any other requirements
of this chapter:
      (1)   The modular unit is placed on a foundation and anchored according
to the State Building Code requirements for a hurricane prone area.
      (2)   Required parking shall be provided.
      (3)   The modular unit may be occupied for no more than one year. If
economic or climatic conditions prevent completion of the permanent building
within that time, the Board of Commissioners may grant an extension of not more
than one additional year.
   (d)   Design and appearance requirements of the County Board of
Commissioners are met. (9-7-76, 1; 9-7-82)
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-69 - ENFORCEMENT
   (a)   Violations: Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter
and subject to enforcement proceedings and remedies as established by local and
state law.
      1.   Development Without a Permit: Any work, development, use,
construction, remodeling or other activities without first securing the
necessary permits as established by this chapter or in violation of any state
law delegated to Dare County enforcement purposes.
      2.   Development Inconsistent with Permit: Work, development, use,
construction, remodeling or other activities which is inconsistent with an
approved site plan, special use permit or other development approval authorized
by Dare County.
      3.   Use Violation: Construction, alteration, repair, or use of a
building, structure or land that is not an authorized permitted use or special
use in the applicable zoning district or is in violation of other zoning
regulations found in this chapter.
      4.   Unauthorized Occupancy: Occupancy or use of a building or structure
without or before the certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by Dare
County for development activities.
   (b)   Notice of Violation: When the Dare County staff determines a violation
has occurred, a written notice of violation may be issued. The notice of
violation shall be delivered to the holder of development approval and to the
landowner of the property involved, if the landowner is not the holder of the
development approval. The notice procedures of Section
22-72 shall be followed. The official providing the notice of violation shall
certify that the notice was provided and the certificate shall be deemed to be
conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (c)   Stop Work Orders: Whenever work or activity is undertaken in
substantial violation of any state or local law or in a manner that endangers
life or property, Planning Department staff may order the specific part of the
work or activity that is in violation or presents a hazard to be immediately
stopped. The written order shall be directed to the person doing the work or
activity and shall state the specific work or activity to be stopped, the
reasons for the work stoppage, and the conditions under which the work or
activity may be resumed. A copy of the order shall be
delivered to the holder of the development approval and to the landowner of the
property involved if the landowner is not the holder of the development
approval. The notice shall be delivered by personal delivery, electronic
delivery, or first class mail to the occupant of the property and any person
undertaking the work. The person delivering the stop work order shall certify
that the notice was provided and the certificate shall be deemed to be
conclusive in the absence of fraud. Except as provided in G.S. 160D-1112 and
160D 1208, a stop work order may be appealed to the Board of Adjustment
according to Section
22-70 of this chapter. Violation of a stop work order shall constitute a Class
1 misdemeanor.
   (d)   Remedies: Failure to comply with a violation notice issued by Dare
County and/or the Board of Adjustment shall be subject to remedies and
penalties of §
10.99 of the Dare County Code and as provided by state law.
(Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-69.1 - APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS 
   (a)   Appeals of Violation Notices: Appeals of decisions, including notices
of violations, made by the staff shall be made to the Dare County Board of
Adjustment according to the provisions of Section
22-70 of this chapter.
   (b)   Standing: A person with standing as established in G.S. 160D-1402 may
appeal an administrative decision to the Board of Adjustment by filing a notice
with the Clerk to the Board of Adjustment or the Planning Director. The notice
shall state the grounds for the appeal.
   (c)   Judicial Challenge: A person with standing may bring a separate and
original civil action to challenge the constitutionality of an ordinance or
development regulation or that it is ultra vires, preempted, or otherwise in
excess of statutory authority without filing an appeal under this section.
   (d)   Time to Appeal: The owner or other party shall have 30 days from
receipt of written notice of any determination within which to file an appeal.
Any other person with standing to appeal shall have 30 days from receipt of any
source of actual or constructive notice of the determination within which to
file an appeal. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, notice given by
first class mail shall be deemed received on the third business day following
deposit of the notice for mailing with the United States Postal Service.
   (e)   Record of Decision: The Dare County official who made the decision
shall transmit to the Board all documents and exhibits constituting the record
upon which the action appealed from is taken. The materials may be in written
or electronic form. The official shall also provide a copy of the record to the
appellant and to the owner of the property that is the subject of the appeal if
the appellant is not the owner.
   (f)   Stays: An appeal of a notice of violation or other enforcement order
stays enforcement of the action appealed from and accrual of any fines assessed
unless the Dare County official who made the decision certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after notice of the appeal has been filed that because of the facts
stated in an affidavit, a stay would cause imminent peril to life or property
or because the violation is transitory in nature, a stay would seriously
interfere with enforcement of the development regulation. In that case,
enforcement proceedings shall not be stayed except by a restraining order,
which may be granted by a court. If enforcement proceedings are not stayed, the
appellant may file with the Dare County official, a request for an expedited
hearing of the appeal, and the Board of Adjustment shall meet to hear the
appeal within 15 days after such a request is filed. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, appeals of decisions granting a development approval or otherwise
affirming that a proposed use of property is consistent with the development
regulation shall not stay the further review of an application for development
approvals to use such property; in these situations the appellant or Dare
County may request and the Board of Adjustment may grant a stay or a final
decision of development approval applications, including building permits
affected by the issue being appealed.
   (g)   Subject to the provision of subsection (f) above, the Board of
Adjustment shall hear and decide the appeal within a reasonable time.
   (h)   Alternative Dispute Resolution: Parties to an appeal may agree to
mediation or other forms of dispute resolution. Offers for mediation or
alternative dispute resolutions shall be submitted by the appellant to the
Clerk to the Board of Adjustment for consideration by the County Attorney who
shall review and authorize participation in any alternative mediation process.
Should the matter be satisfactorily resolved through mediation or other dispute
resolution, then the appeal process shall be discontinued and a written
decision from the mediation or alternative dispute resolution be prepared and
signed by all parties involved in the appeal.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-70 - QUASI-JUDICIAL PROCEDURES
   (a)   Quasi-judicial procedures are to be followed in determining appeals of
administrative decisions, variances, and special use permits. The following
general procedures shall be followed in the handling of these matters.
Additional procedures for appeals and variances are found in Section
22-69.1 and special use permits in Section
22-65.
   (b)   Notice of Hearing: Notice of any evidentiary hearing held in
conjunction with an appeal, variance, or special use permit shall be according
to the provisions of Section
22-72 for mailed notices, posting of property and electronic postings.
   (c)   Administrative Materials. The Planning Director or other Planning
staff shall transmit to the Board of Adjustment all applications, reports and
written materials relevant to the matter being considered. The administrative
materials may be distributed to the Board members prior to the evidentiary
hearing if at the same time they are distributed to the Board a copy is also
provided to the applicant and to the landowner if that person is not the
applicant. The administrative materials may be in written or electronic form.
Objections to the inclusion or exclusion of administrative materials may be
made before or during the evidentiary hearing. Rulings on unresolved objections
shall be made by the Board at the hearing.
   (d)   Presentation of Evidence. The applicant, Dare County, and any person
who would have standing as established in G.S. 160D-1402 shall have the right
to participate as a party at the evidentiary hearing. Other witnesses may
present competent, material, and substantial evidence that is not repetitive as
allowed by the Board. Objections regarding jurisdictional and evidentiary
issues, including but not limited to, the standing of a party may be made to
the Board. The Board Chair shall rule on any objections and the Chair's rulings
may be appealed to the full Board. These rulings are also subject to judicial
review pursuant to G.S. 160D-1402. Objections based on jurisdictional issues
may be raised for the first time on judicial review.
   (e)   Appearance of Official, New Evidence: The Dare County official who
made the decision or the person currently occupying that position if the
decision maker is no longer employed with Dare County shall be present at the
evidentiary hearing as a witness. The appellant shall not be limited at the
hearing to matters stated in a notice of appeal. If any party or Dare County
would be unduly prejudiced by the presentation of matters not presented in the
notice of appeal, the Board shall continue the hearing.
   (f)   Oaths: The Chair of the Board or any member acting as Chair and the
Clerk to the Board are authorized to administer oaths to witnesses in any
matter coming before the Board. Any person who, while under oath during a
proceeding before the Board willfully swears falsely is guilty of a Class 1
misdemeanor.
   (g)   Subpoenas: The Board through the Chair, or in the Chair's absence,
anyone acting as Chair, may subpoena witnesses and compel the production of
evidence. To request issuance of a subpoena, the applicant, Dare County and any
persons with standing under G.S. 160D-1402(d) may make a written request to the
Chair explaining why it is necessary for certain witnesses or evidence to be
compelled. The Chair shall issue requested subpoenas he or she determines to be
relevant, reasonable in nature and scope, and not oppressive. The chair shall
rule on any motion to quash or modify a subpoena. Decisions regarding subpoenas
made by the Chair may be immediately appealed to the full Board. If a person
fails or refuses to obey a subpoena issued pursuant to this subsection, the
Board or the party seeking the subpoenas may apply to the General Court of
Justice for an order requiring that its subpoena be obeyed and the court shall
have jurisdiction to issue these orders after notice to all proper parties.
   (h)   Appeals in Nature of Certiorari: When hearing an appeal pursuant to
G.S. 160D-947(e) or other appeals in the nature of certiorari, the hearing
shall be based on the record below and the scope of review shall be as provided
in G.S. 160D-1402(k).
   (i)   Voting: The concurring vote of 4/5 of the Board shall be necessary to
grant a variance. A majority of the Board members shall be required to decide
any other quasi-judicial matter including special use permits and an appeal
made in the nature of certiorari. For the purposes of this subsection, vacant
positions on the Board and members who are disqualified from voting on a quasi-
judicial matter under G.S. 160D-109(g) shall not be considered members of the
Board for calculation of the requisite majority if there are no qualified
alternatives available to take the place of such members.
   (j)   Decisions: The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm, wholly, or
partly, or may modify the decision appealed from and shall make any order,
requirement, decision, or determination that ought to be made. The Board shall
have all the powers of the official who made the decision. The Board shall
determine contested facts and make its decision within a reasonable time.
Decisions shall be based upon competent, material, and substantial evidence in
the record. Every decision shall be made in writing and reflect the Board's
determination of contested facts and their application of applicable standards.
This written report shall be approved by the Board and signed by the Chair of
the Board or other duly authorized member of the Board. A quasi-judicial
decision is effective upon filing of the written decision with the Clerk to the
Board of Adjustment The decision of the Board shall be delivered within a
reasonable time by personal delivery, electronic mail, or be first-class mail
to the applicant, landowner, and to any person who has submitted a written
request for a copy of the decision prior to the date the decision becomes
effective. The Clerk to the Board shall certify that proper notice has been
made and the certificate shall be deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
   (k)   Judicial Review: Every quasi-judicial decision shall be subject to
review by the superior court by proceedings in the nature of certiorari
pursuant to G.S. 160D-1402. Appeals shall be filed within the times specified
in G.S. 160D-1405(d).
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-71 - QUASI-JUDICIAL ZONING DECISIONS
   (a)   Appeals and variances are quasi-judicial proceedings of the Dare
County Board of Adjustment as authorized in Chapter 152 of the Dare County Code
of Ordinances. Hearings conducted on appeals and variances are evidentiary
hearings and subject to the procedures set forth in Section
22-71. Special use permits are quasi-judicial proceedings of the Dare County
Board of Commissioners as set forth in Section
22-70.
   (b)   Appeals of Administrative Development Decisions and Other Staff
Decisions: The Board of Adjustment as established in Chapter 152 of the Dare
County Code of Ordinances shall hear and decide appeals on administrative
decisions regarding administrative development approvals and enforcement of the
zoning regulations and appeals arising out of any other ordinance that
regulates land use or development. The provisions of Sections 22-69.1 and 22-70
(quasi-judicial procedures) are applicable to these appeals.
   (c)   Special Use Permits: The Board of Commissioners shall hear and decide
special use permits in accordance with principles, conditions, safeguards, and
procedures specified in Section
22-65 of this chapter. Reasonable and appropriate conditions and safeguards may
be imposed upon these permits. Where appropriate, such conditions may include
requirements that street and utility rights-of-way be dedicated to the public
and that provisions be made for recreational space and facilities. Conditions
cannot be imposed on the applicant for which Dare County does not have the
statutory authority to impose.
   (d)   Variances: The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide variances
subject to the provisions of G.S. 160D and the provisions set forth in this
section. When unnecessary hardships would result from carrying out the strict
letter of the Zoning Ordinance, the Board of Adjustment shall vary any of the
provisions of the zoning regulation upon a showing of all of the following:
      (1)   Unnecessary hardship would result from the strict application of
the regulation. It shall not be necessary to demonstrate that, in absence of
the variance, no reasonable use can be made of the property.
      (2)   The hardship results from conditions that are peculiar to the
property, such as location, size, or topography. Hardships resulting from
personal circumstances, as well as hardships resulting from conditions that are
common to the neighborhood or the general public, may not be the basis for
granting a variance. A variance may be granted when necessary and appropriate
to a make a reasonable accommodation under the Federal Fair Housing Act for a
person with a disability.
      (3)   The hardship did not result from actions taken by the applicant or
the property owner. The act of purchasing property with knowledge that
circumstances exist that may justify the granting of a variance shall not be
regarded as a self-created hardship.
      (4)   The requested variance is consistent with the spirit, purpose, and
intent of the regulation, such that public safety is secured, and substantial
justice is achieved.
   (e)   No change in permitted uses may be authorized by variance. Appropriate
conditions may be imposed on any variance, provided that the conditions are
reasonably related to the variance. Any other development regulation ordinance
that regulates land use or development may be provided for variances consistent
with the provisions of this subsection.
   (f)   A variance shall not be granted to allow a use not permitted by right
or special use permit in any zoning district.
   (g)   The following conditions shall not serve as conditions for granting of
a variance:
      (1)    The non-conforming use of abutting lands, structures, or buildings
in the same zoning district that applies to the subject property.
      (2)   The existence of an approved special use permit for the subject
property.
      (3)   The fact the subject property could be utilized more profitably if
a variance was granted or because of a financial hardship of the applicant.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-72 - NOTICE PROCEDURES
Notice procedures for administrative decisions, legislative hearings, and
evidentiary hearings are as follows:
   (a)   Administrative Development Approval and Determinations, Revocation of
Administrative Development Approvals, and Notices of Violations of
Administrative Development Approvals (160D-403)
      1.   Mailed Notice: The Planning Director or designee shall give written
notice to the landowner of the subject property of a determination of
development approval and to the party who sought the determination if different
from the owner. The written notice shall be delivered by personal delivery,
electronic mail or by first-class mail. The notice shall be provided to the
last address listed for the owner on the Dare County tax records and to the
address provided in the application or request for a determination if the party
seeking the determination is different from the owner. For the purposes of this
notice, delivery by first-class mail shall be deemed received on the third
business day following deposit of the notice in the mail with the United States
Postal Service and delivery by electronic mail shall be deemed received on the
date sent.
      2.    Posted Notice: Notice of violations may also be posted on the
property at the discretion of the Dare County Planning Director.
   (b)   Evidentiary Hearings (Quasi-judicial) for Appeals, Variances, and
Special Use Permits (160D-406)
      1.   Mailed Notice: Notice of an evidentiary hearing shall be mailed to
the person or entity whose appeal, variance or special use permit request is
the subject of the hearing; to the owner of the property that is the subject of
the hearing if the owner did not initiate the hearing; to the owners of all
parcels of land abutting the parcel of land that is the subject of the hearing;
and to any other persons entitled to receive notice as provided in the
applicable development regulation. In the absence of evidence to the contrary,
Dare County may rely on the Dare County tax listing to determine owners of
property entitled to mailed notice. The notice must be deposited in the mail at
least 10 days, but not more than 25 days, prior to the date of the hearing. The
Board may continue an evidentiary hearing that has been convened without
further advertisement, if an evidentiary hearing is set for a given date and a
quorum of the board is not then present, the hearing shall be continued until
the next regular Board meeting without further advertisement.
      2.   Posted Notice: Dare County shall prominently post a notice of the
hearing on the site that is the subject of the hearing or on an adjacent street
or highway right-of-way. This notice shall be posted according to the same time
period applied to mailed notices.
      3.   Electronic Postings: Dare County shall post notice of any
evidentiary hearing on the Dare County webpage according to the same time
period applied to mailed notices.
   (c)   Legislative Hearings for Zoning Map Amendments (160D-601)
      1.   Mailed Notice: The owner of affected parcels of land and the owners
of all parcels of land abutting that parcel of land shall be mailed notice of
the hearing on the proposed zoning map amendment by first-class mail to the
last address listed for such owners on the Dare County tax records. For the
purpose of this section, properties are abutting even if separated by a street,
railroad, or other transportation corridor. This notice must be deposited in
the mail at least 10 days but not more than 25 days prior to the date of the
hearing.
   (d)   Large-scale Zoning Map Amendments: For large-scale zoning map
amendments, as an alternative to the mailed notice requirements listed above,
Dare County may elect to publish notice of the hearing provided each
advertisement shall not be less than 1/2 of a newspaper page in size. Large-
scale amendments are those that propose to change the zoning designation of
more than 50 properties owned by at least 50 different property owners. The
advertisement shall only be effective for property owners who reside in the
area of general circulation of the newspaper that publishes the notice.
Property owners who reside outside of the newspaper circulation area, according
to the address listed on the most recent property tax listing for the affected
property, shall be notified according to the provisions for mailed notice.
      2.   Posted Notice: When a zoning map amendment is proposed, Dare County
shall prominently post notice of the hearing on the site proposed for the
amendment or on an adjacent public street or highway right-of-way. This notice
shall be posted according to the same time period applied to mailed notices.
When multiple parcels are included in a zoning map amendment, a posting on each
individual parcel is not required but Dare County shall post sufficient notices
to provide reasonable notice to interested persons.
      3.   Published Notice: For any legislative hearing on a zoning map or
text amendment, notice shall be given once a week for 2 successive calendar
weeks in a newspaper having general circulation in the area. The notice shall
be published the first time not less than 10 days nor more than 25 days before
the date scheduled for the hearing. In computing such period, the day of
publication is not be included but the day of the hearing shall be included.
      4.   Except for Dare County-initiated zoning map amendments, when an
application is filed to request a zoning map amendment by a person that is not
the landowner or an authorized agent, the applicant shall certify to Dare
County that the landowner as shown on the Dare County tax records has received
actual notice of the proposed amendment and a copy of the hearing notice.
Actual notice shall be provided in any manner permitted under G.S. 1A-1, Rule 4
(j). If notice cannot with due diligence be achieved by personal delivery,
certified mail, or by a designated delivery service authorized pursuant to 26
U.S.C. 7502(f)(2), notice may be given by publication consistent with G.S. 1A-
1 Rule 4(j). The person or persons required to provide notice shall certify to
Dare County that actual notice has been provided, and such certificate shall be
deemed conclusive in the absence of fraud.
      5.   For zoning text amendments which propose to add a permitted or
special use to a specific zoning district or multiple zoning districts or text
amendments which propose to apply to all properties in unincorporated Dare
County, mailed notification and posting of properties is not required by North
Carolina law. However, Dare County shall publish notice of the legislative
hearing and post an electronic notice on the Dare County webpage. Other notice
procedures may be implemented based on the specifics of the request and the
number of properties involved in the amendment.
      6.   Electronic Postings: Dare County shall post notice of any
legislative hearing on the Dare County webpage according to the same time
period applied to published notices.
      7.   Planning Board Meetings: In advance of a Planning Board meeting at
which a zoning map amendment request will be reviewed, notice of the amendment
request shall be provided by the posting of a notice on the subject property
and shall be provided to any abutting property owners. For zoning text
amendments, notice shall be published on the Dare County Planning Department
webpage. Such notice shall indicate the nature of the request, the applicant,
time and date of the Planning Board meeting, and that comments on the amendment
may be made to the Planning Board during the citizen comment period offered at
the beginning of the Planning Board meeting. The notice procedures for Planning
Board review of an amendment shall be made no less than 10 calendar days in
advance of the scheduled Planning Board meeting.
      8.   Minor errors in any notice shall not invalidate the notice or any
associated hearing if a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the
applicable notice requirements. Minor errors may include but are not limited to
errors in legal description or typographical or grammatical errors. Failure of
a party to receive written notice shall not invalidate subsequent action. If
inquiries on the compliance of notice procedures are made, the applicable board
conducting the hearing shall request the Planning Director to make a finding on
the consistency of the notice requirements and such finding shall be made
available as part of the final action on the request.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-73 - CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
   (a)   Legislative Decisions
      1.   Board of Commissioners: A member of the Dare County Board of
Commissioners shall not vote on any legislative matter regarding a development
regulation adopted where the outcome of the matter being considered is
reasonably likely to have a direct, substantial, and readily identifiable
financial impact on the member. A member of the Dare County Board of
Commissioners shall not vote on any zoning amendment or preliminary subdivision
plat approval if the landowner of the property or the applicant is a person
with whom the member has a close familial, business, or other associational
relationship.
      2.   Planning Board: A member of the Planning Board shall not vote on any
advisory or legislative decision regarding a development regulation where the
outcome of the matter being considered is reasonably likely to have a direct,
substantial, and readily identifiable financial impact on the member. A
Planning Board member shall not vote on any zoning amendment if the landowner
of the property subject to a rezoning petition or an applicant of a text
amendment, a preliminary plat approval or travel trailer park/campground site
plan is a person with whom the member has a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship.
      3.   Administrative Staff: No Planning Department staff member shall make
a final decision on an administrative development approval required by this
chapter if the outcome of that decision would have a direct, substantial, and
readily identifiable financial impact on the staff member or if the applicant
or other person subject to that decision is a person with whom the staff member
has a close familial, business, or other associational relationship. If a staff
member has a conflict of interest under this section, the decision shall be
assigned to the supervisor of the Planning Department staff person. If the
affected staff member is the Planning Director, then the Dare County Manager
shall be the designated person to render the administrative decision. No staff
member shall be financially interested or employed by a business that is
financially interested in a development subject to regulation under this
chapter unless the staff member is the owner of the land or building involved.
No staff member or other individual or an employee of a company contracting
with Dare County to provide staff support shall engage in any work that is
inconsistent with his or her duties in the Planning Department or inconsistent
with the interest of Dare County as determined by Dare County.
   (b)   Quasi-judicial Decisions: A member of any Dare County board exercising
quasi-judicial functions, including special use permits, shall not participate
in or vote on any quasi-judicial matter in a manner that would violate affected
persons' constitutional rights to an impartial decision maker. Impermissible
violations of due process include, but are not limited to, a member having a
fixed opinion prior to hearing the matter that is not susceptible to change,
undisclosed ex parte communications, a close familial, business, or other
associational relationship with an affected person, or a financial interest in
the outcome of the matter.
   (c)   Resolution of Objection: If an objection is raised to a board member's
participation at or prior to a hearing or vote on that particular matter and
that member does not recuse himself or herself, the remaining members of the
Board of Commissioners shall by majority vote rule on the objection.
   (d)   Familial Relationship: For purposes of this section, a close familial
relationship means a spouse, parent, child, brother, sister, grandparent, or
grandchild. The term includes the step, half, and in-law relationships.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
DIVISION 2. CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS
SECTION 22-81 - AMENDMENTS
   (a)   Any zoning map amendment, zoning text amendment or amendment to other
development regulation is subject to legislative review and approval by the
Dare County Board of Commissioners. A zoning map amendment is the process used
to rezone or change the specific zoning classification that applies to one
parcel or multiple parcels. A zoning text amendment is a revision made to the
text of the Zoning Ordinance involving the list of permitted uses or special
uses allowable in a zoning district or the adoption or revision of regulations
that apply to zoning districts as a whole. Amendments may be initiated by the
Board of Commissioners, by the Planning Director upon consultation with the
Board of Commissioners, or by any landowner in unincorporated Dare County.
Applications for a zoning amendment shall be made in writing to the Dare County
Planning Director on an application provided for such a process. The
application shall be signed by all property owners or their duly authorized
agents.
   (b)   No amendment to zoning regulations or a zoning map that down-zones
property shall be initiated nor shall it be enforceable without the written
consent of all property owners whose property is the subject of the down-zoning
amendment, unless the down-zoning amendment is initiated Dare County. For
purposes of this section, down-zoning means a zoning ordinance that affects an
area of land in one of the following ways: 1) by decreasing the development
density of the land to be less dense than was allowed under its previous usage;
2) by reducing the permitted uses of the land that are specified in a zoning
ordinance or land development regulation to fewer uses than were allowed under
its previous usage. (S.L. 2019-111, Part 1, Method of procedure)
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-82 - PLANNING BOARD REVIEW
   (a)   Any zoning map amendment or zoning text amendment shall be submitted
to the Dare County Planning Board for review and comment. If no written report
is received from the Planning Board within 30 days of submission of the
amendment to the Planning Board, the Board of Commissioners may act on the
amendment without the Planning Board report. The Board of Commissioners is not
bound by the recommendations, if any, of the Planning Board.
   (b)   Notice of Planning Board review of any zoning amendment shall be
according to the procedures established in Section
22-72 of this chapter. The public comment period at Planning Board meetings
shall be used for citizen input on zoning amendments. Citizen comments on any
proposed zoning amendment may be made at the public comment period held at the
beginning of each Planning Board meeting. Citizen comments also may be
submitted electronically or mailed to the Planning Board.
   (c)   When making a recommendation on a zoning map or text amendment, the
Planning Board shall advise and comment on whether the proposed action is
consistent with the Dare County Land Use Plan and any other officially adopted
plan that is applicable. The Planning Board shall provide a written
recommendation to the Board of Commissioners that addresses the plan
consistency and other matters as deemed appropriate by the Planning Board. A
comment by the Planning Board that a proposed amendment is inconsistent with
the land use plan shall not preclude consideration or approval of the proposed
amendment by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-83 - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS REVIEW
The Planning Director shall deliver the recommendation of the Planning Board to
the Board of Commissioners in a reasonable timeframe. The recommendation from
the Planning Board shall include any materials submitted by the applicant or
property
owner, a report on any citizen comment received by the Planning Board, and a
statement of plan consistency. The Board of Commissioners shall consider the
Planning Board recommendation but is not bound by any such recommendation.
Final action by the Board of Commissioners on a proposed regulation or
amendment shall proceed in a timely manner as practicable to avoid inordinate
delays.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-84 - LEGISLATIVE HEARING
Before adopting, amending, or repealing any ordinance or development
regulation, the Board of Commissioners shall hold a legislative hearing. Notice
procedures for a legislative hearing according to the procedures of Section
22-72 of this ordinance shall be implemented. Upon conclusion of the
legislative hearing, the Board may choose to act on the proposed regulation or
amendment, may choose to revise the proposed regulation or amendment based on
citizen comment or Board discussion, may refer the item to County staff or
Planning Board for further consideration, or may choose to take no action on
the proposed regulation or amendment. Failure to take no action on the proposed
regulation or amendment shall be deemed a denial of the proposed regulation or
amendment unless stated otherwise by the Board of Commissioners. A statement of
consistency and a statement of reasonableness shall be issued by the Board at
the time of action on the item. A written account of any action by the Board of
Commissioners shall be delivered by the Planning Director to the applicant and
any party that has requested such information.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-85 - CITIZEN COMMENTS
If any resident or property owner in Dare County submits a written statement
regarding a proposed amendment, modification or repeal to a zoning regulation
(including any text or map amendment) to the Clerk to the Board of
Commissioners at least 2 business days prior to the proposed vote on such
change, the Clerk shall deliver such written statement to the Board of
Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-86 - DARE COUNTY LAND USE PLAN CONSISTENCY AND REASONABLENESS
The Dare County Land Use Plan shall serve as the comprehensive plan consistent
with G.S. 160D-501. The Dare County Land Use Plan sets forth goals, policies,
and programs intended to guide the present and future physical, social, and
economic development of the jurisdiction. This plan shall be reasonably
maintained by Dare County. Any updates to the Plan shall be adopted by the
Board of Commissioners following the legislative decision process set forth in
Sections 22-72 and 22-84 of this ordinance. The planning process for updates to
the plan shall include opportunities for citizen engagement. The Dare County
Planning Board shall serve as the advisory committee for any update process.
Updates to the land use plan shall also follow any guidelines and procedures
for certification by the State of North Carolina Coastal Resources Commission
or Division of Coastal Management as required by state regulations.
   (a)   Statement of Consistency: The Board of Commissioners shall approve a
statement describing whether the action is consistent or inconsistent with the
Land Use Plan. A plan consistency statement may be fulfilled by a clear
indication in the official minutes that the Board of Commissioners was aware
and considered the Planning Board's recommendation and any relevant portions of
the Land Use Plan.
If a map amendment is adopted and the action is deemed to be inconsistent with
the Land Use Plan, then the amendment shall have the effect of also amending
the future land use map in the Land Use Plan. Any amendment that results in
changes to the future land use map shall be submitted to review by the North
Carolina Coastal Resources Commission or the Division of Coastal Management as
required by State regulations. If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-
scale rezoning under G.S. 160D-602(b), the Board of Commissioners statement
shall address the overall rezoning and describe the analysis and policies in
the Land Use Plan that were considered in their recommendation.
   (b)   Statement of Reasonableness: When adopting or rejecting any petition
for a zoning text or map amendment, a statement explaining the reasonableness
of the proposed zoning amendment shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners. The statement of reasonableness may consider, among other
factors: the size, physical conditions and other attributes of any area
proposed to be rezoned; the benefits and detriments to the landowners, the
neighbors, and the surrounding community; the relationship between the current
actual and permissible development and the development permissible under the
proposed amendment; why the action taken is in the public interest; and any
changed conditions warranting the amendment.
If a zoning map amendment qualifies as a large-scale rezoning under G.S. 160D-
602(b) the reasonableness statement may address the overall rezoning.
A statement of reasonableness and a statement of consistency with the land use
plan may be combined into a single statement by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-87 - PERMIT CHOICE
If a permit application made for development approval is submitted and a
development regulation changes between the time the application was submitted
and a decision is made, the applicant may choose which version of the
development regulation will apply to the application. If the development permit
applicant chooses the version of the rule or ordinance applicable at the time
of the permit application, the development permit applicant shall not be
required to await the outcome of the amendment to the rule, map, or ordinance
prior to acting on the development permit. The duration of vested rights
created by development approvals is as set forth in Section
22-88 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-88 - VESTING PLANS
   (a)   A person claiming a statutory or common law vested right may submit
information to substantiate that claim to the Planning Director who shall make
an initial determination as to the existence of the vested right. The decision
of the Planning Director may be appealed according to Section
22-69.1 of this chapter. On appeal, the existence of the vested right shall be
reviewed de novo. In lieu of seeking a determination or pursue an appeal, a
person claiming a vested right may bring an original civil action as provided
in G.S. 160D-1403.1.
   (b)   Amendments to Dare County zoning regulations or other land use
development regulations shall not be applicable or enforceable for development
that has been permitted or approved pursuant to this section as long as one of
the following approvals remains valid and unexpired:
      1.   A Dare County building permit. Building permits are valid for a 6-
month period as set forth in G.S. 160D-1111.
      2.   Dare County administrative development approval. Administrative
development approvals shall run for a period of 1 year from the date of the
approval unless work has substantially commenced.
      3.   A site-specific vesting plan. A vested right established by a site
specific vesting plan shall run for a period of 2 years from the date of the
approval of the development application. For the purposes of this chapter, a
site specific vesting plans shall be as follows:
         a.   A special use permit approved by the Board of Commissioners.
         b.   Subdivision preliminary plat approval.
      4.   Multi-phase Development Plan: a multi-phase development is vested
for a period of 7 years from the date of approval by the Board of
Commissioners. A multi-phase development plan is vested for the entire
development with the zoning and subdivision regulations in place at the time of
approval. For the purposes of this subsection, a multi-phase development shall
mean a development containing 25 acres or more that is submitted for
development approval to occur in more than 1 phase and is subject to a master
development plan with committed elements, including a requirement to offer land
for public use as condition of approval of the master development approval
plan. Multi-phase developments shall be subject to approval as special use
permits according to Sections 22-64 and 22-71.
      5.   Development agreement as approved by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners according to the provisions of G.S. Ch. 160D, Article 10.
   (c)   The procedures for administrative development approval are set forth
in Section
22-64 of this chapter.
   (d)   The procedures for preliminary plat approval are established in
Chapter 153 of the Dare County Code of Ordinances.
   (e)   The procedures for a special use permit are set forth in Section
22-65 of this chapter.
      1.   Each site-specific vesting plan shall include the information
required by Dare County for approval as a special use permit.
      2.   Each site specific vesting plan shall follow the notice and hearing
procedures for special use permits.
      3.   An approved site specific vesting plan and its conditions may be
amended with the approval of the applicant and Dare County in the same manner
as required for the special use permit.
      4.   The Dare County Board of Commissioners may extend the vesting period
up to 5 years following the same notice and hearing procedures used for the
original vesting approval upon finding that:
         a.   The permit has not yet expired;
         b.   Conditions have not changed so substantially to warrant a new
application; and
         c.   The extension is warranted in light of other relevant
circumstances including but not limited to the size and phasing of the
development, the level of investment, the need for the development, economic
cycles, and market conditions or other considerations.
      5.   Following the establishment of a vested right upon the approval of a
site specific vesting plan, the Planning Director shall issue a written
statement acknowledging the vested right which describes the duration of the
vesting period, the conditions of approval of the site specific vesting plan
and other information deemed by Dare County as necessary to administer the
vested right.
      6.   The vested right shall confer upon the landowner the right to
undertake and complete the development and use of the property as established
in the site specific vesting plan. Failure to comply with the approved terms
and conditions of the site specific vesting plan shall result in a forfeiture
of vested rights. A vested right shall attach to and run with the land.
   (f)   Limits of Site-specific Vesting Plans
      1.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the revocation of the
original approval or other remedies for failure to comply with applicable terms
and conditions of the approval of the Dare County Zoning Ordinance. The
development remains subject to subsequent review and approvals to ensure
compliance with the terms and conditions of the original approval.
      2.   The establishment of a vested right according to this chapter shall
not preclude the application of overlay zoning that imposes additional
requirements but does not affect the allowable type or intensity of use, or
ordinances that are general in nature and applicable to all property subject to
land use regulation by Dare County.
      3.   New and amended zoning regulations that would apply except for the
vested right shall become effective upon the expiration of termination of the
vested right established by the ordinance.
      4.   Upon issuance of a building permit, the expiration provisions of
G.S. 160D-1111 and 160D-1115 shall apply except that a building permit shall
not expire or be revoked because of the running of time while a zoning vested
right is outstanding.
      5.   Any vested right for a site-specific vesting plan is subject to the
exceptions set forth in G.S. 160D-108.1.
      6.   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the establishment of
a vested right under this section shall not preclude, change, or impair the
authority of Dare County to adopt and enforce development regulation provisions
governing non-conforming uses or situations.
      7.    A sketch plan or document that fails to describe the type and
intensity of a specified parcel or parcels of land does not constitute a
vesting plan. A variance shall not constitute a site-specific vesting plan or a
condition of approval to secure a variance constitute a site-specific vesting
plan.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
SECTION 22-88.1 - DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS 
The Dare County Board of Commissioners may approve development agreements as
authorized in G.S. 160D-1001 and the procedures set forth in G.S. 160D-1001 to
1012 shall be followed for the approval of such agreements. For the purposes of
this section, a development agreement is a development project that occurs in
multiple phases over several years requiring a long-term commitment of both
public and private resources.
(Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
CHAPTER 156: WIND ZONE RESTRICTIONS FOR MANUFACTURED/MOBILE HOMES
Section
   
156.01   Definitions
   
156.02   Application of chapter
   
156.03   Wind zone restrictions
§ 156.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME/MOBILE HOME.  A structure, transportable in 1 or more
sections, which in the traveling mode is 8 feet or more in width or 40 body
feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet,
and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical
systems contained therein, except that such term shall include any structure
which meets all the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the secretary (HUD) and complies with the standards
established under this title. For mobile homes built prior to June 15, 1976, a
label certifying compliance to the Standard for Mobile Homes, NFIPA 501, ANSI
119.1, in effect at the time of manufacture is required. For the purpose of
these provisions, a mobile home shall be considered a manufactured home.
(Definition from the North Carolina State Building Codes, Vol. VII.)
   WIND ZONE I.  Resists horizontal forces of 15 psf (pounds per square foot)
and uplift forces of 9 psf. (Definition from American Society of Civil
Engineers, ASCE.)
   WIND ZONE II.
      (1)   Prior to 7-13-94. Resists horizontal forces of 25 psf and uplift
forces of 15 psf. (Definition from American Society of Civil Engineers, ASCE.)
      (2)   After 7-13-94. Resists horizontal forces of 39 psf and uplift
forces of 27 psf. (Definition from American Society of Civil Engineers, ASCE.)
   WIND ZONE III.  Resists horizontal forces of 47 psf and uplift forces of 32
psf as listed in ASCE 7-88 for 110 mph wind zones. (Definition from American
Society of Civil Engineers, ASCE.)
(Prior Code, § 156.01) (Ord. 94-11-49, passed 11-21-1994)
§ 156.02 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall not apply within the corporate limits of any municipality
or within any area of the county over which any municipality has enacted extra-
territorial jurisdiction zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 156.02) (Ord. 94-11-49, passed 11-21-1994)
§ 156.03 WIND ZONE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Existing manufactured/mobile homes in unincorporated Dare County that
do not meet the wind zone II or wind zone III requirements may be allowed to
exist in their current location.
   (B)   Existing manufactured/mobile homes in Dare County that do not meet the
wind zone II or wind zone III requirements may be moved from location to
location within the unincorporated limits except into those areas zoned SED-
1 on Hatteras Island.
   (C)   However, if such a manufactured/mobile home is moved outside of the
unincorporated jurisdiction or outside of Dare County’s boundaries, then the
manufactured/mobile home will not be allowed to re-enter Dare County’s
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 156.03) (Ord. 94-11-49, passed 11-21-1994; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-
2006)
CHAPTER 157: MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
157.01   Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 157.01 ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Mobile Home Park Ordinance for the county, adopted and revised on 3-18-
1983 is hereby adopted by reference as if herein set out in full. Copies
thereof may be found on file in the office of the Clerk to the Board of
Commissioners.
(Prior Code, § 157.01) (Ord. passed 3-18-1983)
CHAPTER 158: SIGNS, CAMPAIGN SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING STRUCTURES
Section
   
158.01   Intent
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   General provisions
   
158.04   Prohibited signs
   
158.05   Administration and permits
   
158.06   Nonconforming signs
§ 158.01 INTENT.
   The purpose of this section is to coordinate the type, placement, and
physical dimensions of signs within all unincorporated areas of Dare County; to
recognize the commercial communication requirements of all sectors of the
business community; to promote both renovation and proper maintenance of signs;
and to guarantee equal treatment under the law through accurate record keeping
and consistent enforcement. The general objectives of these standards are to
promote the health, safety, welfare, convenience and enjoyment of the public,
and in part, to achieve the following:
   (A)   Safety; to promote the safety of persons and property by providing
that signs:
      (1)   Do not create a hazard due to collapse, fire, decay, collision or
abandonment;
      (2)   Do not obstruct fire, police or other emergency services; and
      (3)   Do not create traffic hazards by confusing or distracting
motorists, or by impairing the driver’s ability to see pedestrians, cyclists,
obstacles or other vehicles, or to read traffic signs.
   (B)   Communications efficiency; to promote the efficient transfer of
information in sign messages by providing that:
      (1)   Those signs which provide messages and information most needed and
sought by the public are given priorities;
      (2)   Businesses and services may identify themselves;
      (3)   Customers and other persons may effectively locate a business or
service;
      (4)   No person or group is arbitrarily denied the use of the sight lines
from the public right-of-way for communication purposes; and
      (5)   Persons exposed to signs are not overwhelmed by the number or size
of messages presented.
   (C)   Landscape quality and preservation; to protect the public welfare and
to enhance the appearance and economic value of the landscape by providing that
signs:
      (1)   Do not interfere with scenic views;
      (2)   Do not create a nuisance to persons using the public rights-of-way;
      (3)   Do not constitute a nuisance to occupancy of adjacent and
contiguous property by their brightness, size, height or movement;
      (4)   Are not detrimental to land or property values; and
      (5)   Contribute to the special character of particular areas of the
community.
(Res. passed 5- -2004)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign, which uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or to create a special effect or scene.
   BUSINESS SIGN.  A sign which directs attention to a business, profession or
industry located upon the premises where the sign is displayed, to the type of
products sold, manufactured or assembled or to services or entertainment
offered on the premises, but not a sign pertaining to the preceding if the
activity is only minor and incidental to the principal use of the premises.
   BULLETIN BOARD.  A sign used to announce meetings or programs to be held on
the premises of a church, school, auditorium, library, museum, community
recreation center or similar non-commercial place of public assembly.
   DIGITAL DISPLAY. A display area in a sign or portion of a sign that is made
up of internally illuminated components that display an electronic image, text
or pictures and is capable of changing the message periodically. DIGITAL
DISPLAY signs may include but are not limited to television or video screens,
holographic displays, programmable ink, LCD, LED or plasma screens.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN, OFF-PREMISE. A sign used to identify a business,
profession, or agency that is located off NC 12, US 64, NC 345, SR 1217, or
other main transportation routes in unincorporated Dare County. The signs shall
contain the name of the business, profession or agency and specific directional
information and/or address of the business, profession or agency location.
   EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated with a light source located
either above or below the sign directed onto the sign face so the message is
visible.
   FLAG. A piece of cloth, paper or other similar flexible material displayed
on a flagpole.
   FLASHING SIGN.  An illuminated sign of direct or indirect lighting on which
the artificial light flashes on and off in regular or irregular sequences.
   FREESTANDING SIGN ON-PREMISES.  A business sign that is used to identify and
direct attention to a business, profession, service or industry located on the
same premises of the business.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign used to identify only the name of the
individual, family, organization or enterprise occupying the premises, the
profession of the occupant or the name of the building on which the sign is
displayed.
   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign illuminated by a light source that is
concealed or contained in the sign and is visible through a translucent
surface. INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGNS feature a static message such as the
business name and are not to be considered as a digital display sign.
   MESSAGE BOARD. A component of a free-standing sign that uses lights to form
a message of alphanumeric symbols which can be electronically programmed to
change its sequence at a set rate of change.
   MULTI-UNIT SIGN.  A freestanding sign that contains 3 or more identification
signs for multi-occupancy premises, such as a shopping center.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign designed and intended to promote, support, call
attention or give notice to a cause, nonprofit and noncommercial services, or
political message of an individual, charitable organization, political group or
other similar entity.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN AND STRUCTURE. A sign and structure that directs
attention to a business, commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or
offered either off premises or as a minor or incidental activity upon the
premises where the sign is located.
   PORTABLE OR MOVABLE SIGN. A sign that is not permanently attached to the
ground, a structure or a building and that can be moved from one location to
another and used for a temporary purpose. This shall include A-frame signs, and
sandwich board signs.
   REVOLVING/ROTATING SIGN. A sign that revolves 360 degrees.
   ROOF SIGN.  A sign erected, constructed or maintained above or on the roof
of any building.
   SIGN. Any surface, fabric or device bearing lettered, pictorial or
sculptured matter designed to convey information visually and exposed to public
view, or any structure, including billboard or poster panel, designed to carry
visual information.
   SIGN AREA. The area of signs, composed in whole or in part of free-standing
letters, devices or sculptured matter not mounted on a measurable surface,
shall be construed to be the area of the least square, rectangle or circle that
will enclose the letters, devices or sculptured matter. The area of a double
faced sign shall be the area of one face of the sign; provided, that the 2
faces are of the same size and are parallel to one another with no more than 24
inches between each sign face.
   SIGN HEIGHT.  As applied to a sign, height shall be measured as the vertical
distance between the highest part of the sign or its supporting structure,
whichever is highest, and the ground.
   SPECIAL PURPOSE SIGN. A temporary sign to announce sales, new products,
openings or closeouts and other special events.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign or advertising display constructed of cloth, fabric,
plywood or other lightweight material and designed or intended for a period not
to exceed 30 days.
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGNS. A sign containing numerals that may be
alternately displayed to show the time and/or temperature. A time and/or
temperature sign shall not be considered a flashing or animated sign; time and
temperature signs shall not change or alternate messages more frequently than
once every 3 seconds.
   UNDER-CANOPY SIGN. A sign that is affixed or attached to a canopy located
over a storefront, doorway, entrance, window.
   WALL SIGN. A sign affixed to the wall of any building that projects not more
than 12 inches from the building.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign that is attached directly to the inside or outside of a
window or located in such a manner within a building that it is visible from
the exterior (outside) of the building through a window.
   WIND DEVICE.  Any flag, banner, balloon, pennant, streamer or similar device
that moves freely in the wind. All WIND DEVICES are considered to be flags and
are regulated as flags.
(Res. passed 5- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
§ 158.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance with Building and Electrical Codes. All signs shall be
constructed in accordance with the requirements of the local and state Building
Code and the National Electrical Code, including applicable wind load
standards.
   (B)   Anchoring.
      (1)   All freestanding signs shall have self-supporting structures
erected on or permanently attached to concrete foundations, concrete footings
or concrete embedment.
      (2)   All special purpose signs shall be braced or secured to prevent
motion.
   (C)   Additional construction specifications.  No sign shall be erected,
constructed or maintained so as to obstruct any ingress or egress to any
window, door, fire escape, stairway, ladder or opening intended to provide
light, air, ingress, egress, for any room or building as required by law.
   (D)   Maintenance and removal. Should any sign become in danger of falling
or is deemed unsafe by the Building Inspector, the owner or the person or firm
maintaining the sign, shall upon written notice from the Building Inspector,
secure or remove the sign within 10 business days. In the case of immediate
danger, the sign shall be secured or removed as specified by the Building
Inspector. If the sign is not removed or secured, the Inspector or his or her
designated agent may initiate legal procedures to obtain the necessary court
orders to remove such signs at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
   (E)   Abandoned signs. Any freestanding sign relating to any business or
other use shall be removed by the owner of the sign or property owner within 60
days after the business or activity has been vacated or terminated. If the sign
has not been removed after the removal time has expired and after proper
written notification has been issued, the Dare County Zoning Officer may
initiate legal procedures to remove such signs at the expense of the owner or
lessee thereof.
   (F)   Sign measurements.
      (1)   General. For the purpose of this chapter, the area, in square feet,
of any sign shall be computed by the smallest square, triangle, rectangle,
circle or combination thereof which will encompass the entire sign. In
computing the sign area in square feet, standard mathematical formulas for
known or common shapes will be used. In the case of irregular shapes, straight
lines drawn closest to the extremities of the shape will be used.
      (2)   Multiple faces. Where a sign has 2 or more faces, the area of all
faces shall be included in determining the area of the sign, except that where
2 such faces are placed back-to-back and are at no point more than 2 feet from
one another. The area of the sign shall be taken as the area of the larger face
if the 2 faces are of unequal area; if the areas of the 2 faces are equal, then
the area of 1 of the faces shall be taken as the area of the sign.
   (G)   Lighting. Unless otherwise specified by this chapter, all signs may be
illuminated in a manner that the light and glare are reflected away from
streets and adjacent properties. However, no sign regulated by this chapter may
utilize a revolving beacon light, flashing, revolving and/or rotating light.
   (H)   Exemptions. This section shall not relate to building design, nor
shall the chapter regulate official traffic signs, gravestones, lighting or
displays of a seasonal religious or traditional nature (e.g., Christmas or
Chanukah lights or decorations, Thanksgiving decorations, Halloween lights or
decorations and the like) which are not commercially-oriented, scoreboards on
athletic fields, or any display or construction not defined herein as a sign.
   (I)   Exceptions. Roanoke Voyages Corridor on Roanoke Island: These
regulations do not apply to properties on Roanoke Island, adjacent to US 64/264
from William Umstead Bridge and The Virginia Dare Memorial Bridge along US 64
Business and US 64/264 Bypass to the Washington Baum Bridge. Other regulations
apply created by the NC General Assembly in 1981, Sessions Laws 1194, created
The Roanoke Voyages Commission to effect and encourage restoration,
preservation and enhancement of the appearance and aesthetic quality of the US
Highway 64/264 traveled corridor through Roanoke Island.
   (J)   Permits required. Unless otherwise specifically provided, a sign
permit shall be obtained before commencing the construction, alteration,
erection, addition to or moving of any sign.
(Res. passed 5- -2004)
§ 158.04 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   In all areas of unincorporated Dare County, the erection,
construction, location or the use of any sign is prohibited as follows.
   (B)   The signs, if deemed to create a public safety hazard by the Building
Inspector, may be removed immediately by the county; otherwise, prohibited
signs shall be removed within 10 business days following written notification
from Dare County.
      (1)   No sign shall be permitted on or protrude into a public or private
right-of-way, street or passageway.
      (2)   No sign shall be posted on any telegraph, telephone, electric or
other utility pole or structure or any tree.
      (3)   No sign shall be permitted whereby its location, nature or type
constitutes a hazard to the safe and efficient operation of vehicles upon any
public or private right-of-way, street or passageway. No sign shall be
permitted that obstructs the line of sight of motorists or pedestrians at
intersections, driveways or along any public or private right-of-way, street or
passageway. No sign shall be permitted that obstructs or resemble traffic signs
or signals, or would tend to be confused with a flashing light of an emergency
vehicle.
      (4)   No sign shall contain statements, words or pictures which describe
or display specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities, as
defined in the Dare County Code of Ordinances or which contain words which are
classified as vulgar, vulgar slang, offensive slang, or obscene in The New
College Edition of the American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language.
      (5)   No sign shall be permitted that contains or consists of banners,
posters, pennants, ribbons, balloons, streamers, spinning parts or other
similarly moving devices or ornamentation, except as specifically provided
herein.
      (6)   No sign shall be permitted which contains or utilizes revolving or
rotating beams of light. No sign shall be erected which flashes, except for
time and temperature signs as defined in this chapter.
      (7)   No sign shall be placed on a vehicle or trailer that is parked or
located for the primary purpose of displaying the sign (this does not apply to
signs or lettering on buses, taxis or vehicles operating during the normal
course of business).
      (8)   No business sign shall be located in any public or private
waterbody, canal, ditch or other waterway, including the Atlantic Ocean and the
surrounding waters of Dare County. This prohibition does not apply to official
federal state or local navigational signs.
      (9)   Off-premise directional real estate signs.
      (10)   Temporary, portable signs including sandwich board, A-frame, or
wind driven signs such as tethered balloons or other inflatable objects. This
prohibition does not apply to signs under §
158.05(B)(12).
      (11)   Outdoor advertising structures, as defined in §
158.02.
      (12)   Roof signs including painting on roof or displays that extend
beyond the highest point of the roof structure.
(Res. passed 5- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
§ 158.05 ADMINISTRATION AND PERMITS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall issue a permit for the erection or
construction only for a sign which meets the requirements of this chapter.
Applications for a sign permit to construct, or alter the structure of a sign
shall be submitted to the Dare County Planning Department and accompanied by a
plan showing the following:
      (1)   Area of the sign;
      (2)   Size, character, general layout and designs of sign display;
      (3)   The method and type of illumination, if any;
      (4)   The location proposed for such signs in relation to property lines,
zoning district boundaries (if applicable), right-of-way lines, public
waterways and existing signs;
      (5)   If conditions warrant it, the Planning Department may require
additional information as needed to determine if the sign to be erected is in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (6)   Payment of fee to obtain building permit.
   (B)   The following types of signs are exempted from the sign permit
requirements, but must comply with all other requirements of this chapter:
      (1)   Free-standing off-premise directional signs used by churches,
synagogues or civic organizations under the following provisions:
         (a)   The signs are located on private property with written
permission from property owner.
         (b)   Signs are not located in public or private right-of-way.
         (c)   Signs contain the name of the church, synagogue or civic
organization; location of the site; and directions to the site.
         (d)   Signs do not exceed 24 square feet in area;
      (2)   One, non-illuminated sign for each street frontage of a
construction project, not to exceed 12 square feet in sign area in residential
zones or 24 square feet in all other zones. This sign shall be used by all
general contractors, sub-contractors, architects, landscape professionals or
other firms or organizations involved in the construction project. The sign may
be erected 5 days prior to construction and shall be removed within 10 days
following completion of the construction. This sign shall be used in lieu of
individual sign for each professional involved in the construction project;
      (3)   Four directional/information signs per lot, not to individually
exceed 3 square feet in sign area or 20 inches in height (see definition);
      (4)   Public signs or notices or any sign relating to any emergency;
      (5)   One non-illuminated real estate sign per street frontage, not to
exceed 6 square feet in sign area. The signs shall be removed within 10
business days following sale of the property;
      (6)   Real Estate Signs (For Rent, daily or weekly) - One-non-illuminated
real estate sign per street frontage, not to exceed 6 square feet in sign area.
Such signs shall be affixed to the structure offered for rent;
      (7)   Residence Signs - Nameplate or street address numbers, not to
exceed 4 square feet in sign area;
      (8)   Signs used for bona fide navigational aids;
      (9)   Flags, as defined in §
158.02;
      (10)   Temporary signs or banners for the promotion of noncommercial
events or activities provided they do not exceed 50 square feet in sign area
and do not encroach on any public or private right-of-way. The temporary signs
or banners may be installed 20 business days before the event or activity and
must be removed within 5 business days following the event or activity;
      (11)   Banners at commercial or business properties provided such banners
do not exceed 48 square feet in area;
      (12)   One temporary sandwich board or A-frame signs used for the
promotion of weekly or bi-weekly non-commercial events or activities provided
they do not exceed 12 square feet in size and do not encroach on any private or
public right-of-way; and
      (13)   Campaign signs which advocate for or against the election of a
named candidate, group of candidates, or candidates of a named political party
in any election, or which advocate for or against a referendum ballot question,
so long as the sign:
         (a)   Does not exceed six square feet in total display area;
         (b)   Is not more than 6 feet above the ground at its highest point
(unless affixed to a pre-existing eligible structure on private property);
         (c)   Is not placed:
            1.   On public property, public buildings, and public structures,
including traffic control signal poles and other traffic control signs;
            2.   On utility poles and power company structures; and
            3.   Within any polling location buffer zones established pursuant
to North Carolina law and/or by the Dare County Board of Elections.
         (d)   Does not impede traffic safety and is not placed in the line of
sight of motorists;
         (e)   Is placed on private property only with the property owner’s
permission;
         (f)   Is erected no sooner than 6 weeks prior to and removed within 10
days after the date of the election for which the sign was erected; and
         (g)   Is otherwise not in violation of state or federal law.
   (C)   Signs that require a permit.
      (1)   Subdivision Identification Signs - Two subdivision identification
signs per entrance, not to exceed 35 square feet each in sign area.
      (2)   Identification Signs - One identification sign per apartment or
condominium complex entrance, not to exceed 35 square feet in sign area.
      (3)   Freestanding Signs in residential zones - For permitted
nonresidential uses in residential zoning districts, including churches and
synagogues, one freestanding sign per frontage, not exceeding 35 square feet in
sign area. An additional 10 square feet of message board area shall be allowed.
All permitted freestanding signs shall have a maximum height limit of 6 feet
and shall have a minimum setback of 5 feet from any property line. For
permitted freestanding signs, which are to be illuminated, such illumination
must come from a light source that is external to the sign itself and oriented
in a manner that the light and glare reflects away from streets and surrounding
residential uses.
      (4)   Freestanding Business Signs - One freestanding sign per premises
not to exceed 64 square feet in area and not to exceed 20 feet in height. An
additional 10 square feet of message board area shall be allowed. Multi-unit
structures (3 or more businesses per structure) shall be allowed 1 free-
standing sign not to exceed 64 square feet of area with an additional 10 square
feet of message board allowed. Multi-unit signs shall not exceed 20 feet in
height. Individual signs for each business shall be located on the freestanding
sign and shall be designed to reflect a unified graphic appearance (e.g., size
and material type). Individual freestanding signs for each business shall not
be allowed. Individual commercial logos are permitted on multi-unit signs.
      (5)   Wall Signs - The amount of wall signage allowed shall be based on
the location of the building and the setback distance from the street right-of-
way. These standards are designed to encourage the maximum use of wall signage
to replace the use of temporary sandwich board or A-frame signs and numerous
free-standing signs. Individual businesses shall display wall signs that
contain the name of their establishment.
         (a)   For businesses located up to 50 feet from minimum building
setback line, walls signs may not exceed 20% of the finished wall surface of
the front wall or facade of the structure including window and door openings.
         (b)   For businesses located more than 50 feet from the minimum
building setback line, wall signs may not exceed 40% of the exposed finished
wall surface including window and door openings.
         (c)   For multi-unit structures, the wall signage standards shall be
applied to the exclusive use area or individual unit area assigned to each
business.
         (d)   Marquee signs for movie theaters shall not be considered wall
signage and may exceed the standards detailed above but shall not to exceed 200
square feet in sign area.
         (e)   Wall signage may utilize a digital display if all of the
following criteria are met:
            1.   Digital display areas may be illuminated from 6:00 a.m. to 10:
00 p.m. Each digital display shall be equipped with a control system that
automatically adjusts light emission levels to ambient light conditions to
avoid glare or excessive brightness.
            2.   The digital display shall not contain full-motion video,
flashes, moves or scrolls, feature interactive functions, use animation, or
emit noise. Each message shall transition instantly and messages shall not
change more frequently than once every 60 minutes.
            3.   Digital display signage shall not exceed a maximum of 1 foot-
candle illumination at the property line. This foot-candle rating shall be
certified by an independent contractor at the time of installation of the sign
and periodically as requested by the Planning Director to demonstrate
compliance with this rating.
            4.   Only 1 digital display sign shall be allowed per business
site.
            5.   Message boards as defined in §
158.02 of a free-standing sign shall not be considered a digital display.
      (6)   Under-Canopy Signs - One under-canopy sign per occupancy, not to
exceed 4 square feet in sign area.
      (7)   On-Premises Window Signs - Permanent window signs - not to exceed
25% of the total ground floor glassed window area
         (a)   One neon window sign per occupancy may be allowed.
         (b)   Window signs are prohibited above the first floor occupancy for
the same individual business.
      (8)   Off-premises directional business signs shall be permitted
provided:
         (a)   Each business is allowed one off-premise directional sign;
         (b)   Such signs are located on private property with written
permission from property owner;
         (c)   Signs are not located in any public or private right-of-way;
         (d)   Signs do not exceed 24 square feet in area;
         (e)   Are used only for businesses that are located off NC 12, US 64,
NC 345, SR 1217 or other main transportation route; and
         (f)   Does not conflict with standards contained in prohibited signs.
      (9)   Special regulations and allowances for business signs:
         (a)   Corner Lots -Where an occupancy is on a corner or has more than
1 street frontage, additional wall signs and additional freestanding signs are
allowed on the additional frontage, not to exceed the number and size
limitations of other allowed wall and freestanding signs.
         (b)   Minimum Clearance - All awning, marquee, and under-canopy signs
shall have a minimum clearance of 9 feet over any pedestrian use area.
         (c)   Awning Signs - Awning signs shall be considered wall signs and
subject to the same standards.
   (D)   Temporary and special event signs.
      (1)   Flags - ground-mounted flagpoles at business sites shall not exceed
the maximum building height limit of the applicable zoning district. Roof-
mounted flagpoles are prohibited. The United States, North Carolina, city and
county flags are exempt from all restrictions of this section. Other flags may
be permitted according to the following:
         (a)   Up to 100 feet on linear road frontage - maximum of 2 poles for
a total of 4 flags per site.
         (b)   Over 100 feet of linear road frontage - maximum of 2 poles per
100 feet or a maximum of 5 poles and 10 flags per site.
         (c)   Sails, sailboards, kites, or other similar apparatus shall be
considered as flags and subject to these restrictions.
         (d)   All flagpoles shall be located outside of any right-of-way of
easement area.
         (e)   Flagpoles shall be located 15 feet from all property lines.
         (f)   Flags shall not contain business names, logos, advertising, or
other representations for that specific business or activity associated with
that business. Flags that contain such information shall be considered as wall
signage and subject to wall sign regulations.
      (2)   Pennants - Prohibited except as navigational aids, or if used by a
religious activity or by an educational or charitable organization.
(Res. passed 5- -2004; Am. Ord. passed 6-21-2021)
§ 158.06 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   All signs in existence on March 3, 2003, which are located in
unincorporated areas of Dare County that were zoned as of that date, and all
signs in existence on May 5, 2004, which are located in areas of Dare County
that were unzoned as of that date that do not conform to the specific provision
of this chapter will be considered to be nonconforming signs.
   (B)   Nonconforming signs shall be removed or brought into compliance within
the timeframes specified in the table below:
 
Sign Type                                                 Timeframe for Removal
Temporary or portable signs including sandwich boards and 60 days
A-frame signs
On-premise free-standing                                  5 years
Off-premise billboards, outdoor advertising               3 years
Prohibited signs                                          60 days
Non-conforming wall signs                                 2 years
 
      (1)   Loss of Nonconforming status - A nonconforming sign may lose its
nonconforming designation if:
         (a)   The sign is relocated or replaced; or
         (b)   The structure of the sign is altered in any way except towards
compliance with this chapter. This does not refer to change of copy or normal
maintenance.
      (2)   Maintenance and Repair of Nonconforming Signs - Nonconforming signs
are subject to all requirements of this Chapter regarding safety, maintenance
and repair. However, if the sign suffers more than 50% appraised damage or
deterioration, it must be removed or brought into conformance with this
chapter.
      (3)   Other standards for non-conforming signs:
         (a)   No replacement - Another nonconforming sign shall not replace a
nonconforming sign except that the substitution or interchange of poster
panels, painted boards or demountable material on nonconforming signs shall be
permitted.
         (b)   Repair - Minor repairs and maintenance of nonconforming signs
such as repainting, electrical repairs and neon tubing repairs shall be
permitted.
         (c)   Alteration, Relocation or Replacement - Nonconforming signs,
which are structurally altered, relocated or replaced, shall comply in all
respects with the provisions of this chapter, except as specifically excepted
herein.
         (d)   Legally Established Nonconforming Uses - New signs related to
legally established nonconforming uses may be erected provided they comply with
the sign requirements of the district in which the use is located.
(Res. passed 5- -2004)
CHAPTER 159: MINING ACTIVITIES
Section
   
159.01   Purpose; findings
   
159.02   Definitions
   
159.03   Area of applicability
   
159.04   Hours of operation
   
159.05   Noise limitation
   
159.06   Compliance with North Carolina mining permit
   
159.07   Fencing
 
   
159.99   Penalty
§ 159.01 PURPOSE; FINDINGS.
   (A)   It is recognized that mining and its associated excavation,
dewatering, trucking of soils from the site, and other land disturbance
activities are incompatible with surrounding residential properties found in
the East Lake tax district. The noise, dust, and other environmental impacts
that result from mining activities and their accompanying borrow pits pose
threats to the public health, safety and welfare of residents and property
owners in the East Lake tax district.
   (B)   Therefore, the Board of Commissioners finds it to be in the best
interest of public health, safety and welfare to enact appropriate regulations
and safeguards to apply to all properties located in the East Lake tax district
as established in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 159.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-WEIGHTED SOUND LEVEL. The sound pressure level in decibels as measured on
a sound level meter using the A-weighing network. The level is so read is
designated dB(A).
   BORROW PIT. An area from which soil or other unconsolidated materials are
removed in a manner that results in a pit or pond with the removed materials
used for some other purpose.
   DIVISION OF LAND RESOURCES. State agency responsible for the permitting of
mining activities in North Carolina.
   DECIBEL. A unit or level used to measure sound intensity, equal to the
logarithm of the ratio of the intensity of the sound to a reference point.
   MINING ACTIVITIES. Any excavation, site work, digging, de-watering, loading
or unloading of equipment including the loading of trucks of excavated
materials for off-site delivery that may occur in conjunction with the
construction or operation of a borrow pit.
   MINING PERMIT. A permit issued by the North Carolina Division of Land
Resources for mining, excavation, and associated reclamation activities.
   SOUND LEVEL. The weighted sound pressure level obtained by use of a sound
level meter and frequency weighing network, such as “A,” “B,” or “C” as
specified in American National Standards Institute specifications for sound
level meters (ANSI S1.41971 or the latest approved version). If the frequency
weighting employed is not indicated, the A-weighting shall apply.
   SOUND LEVEL METER. An instrument used for measuring sound levels which
includes a microphone, a means of displaying the sound level, an integrator or
time averager, and weighting network.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 159.03 AREA OF APPLICABILITY.
   The regulations found in this chapter shall be applicable to all borrow pits
and mining activities on property located in the East Lake tax district as
designated by the County of Dare.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 159.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   All mining activities shall be restricted to the hours of 7: 00 a.m. to 4:30
p.m., Monday through Friday. No mining activities shall occur on Saturday or
Sunday.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 159.05 NOISE LIMITATIONS.
   All mining activities shall not exceed 70 db(A) at any time as measured at
or beyond the property line of any site where the mining activity occurs. For
the purposes of determining the property line, fences, vegetation or other
physical features commonly associated with property boundaries shall be used. A
sound level meter shall be used to measure any noise emanating from a borrow
pit site using the A-weighting scale. The person operating the meter shall face
the noise source and record the meter’s response observed at ten second
periods. Five readings above the allowable decibel limit shall constitute a
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 159.06 COMPLIANCE WITH NORTH CAROLINA MINING PERMIT.
   All mining activities shall occur in compliance with any conditions and
requirements as established by the North Carolina mining permit issued for any
borrow pit or excavation site.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 159.07 FENCING.
   The fencing requirements of §
152.03 of the Dare County Code of Ordinances shall also apply.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
§ 159.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of regulations contained in §
159.04 or
159.05 shall be subject to the penalties as established in §
10.99 of the Dare County Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of any condition or requirement of a state mining permit
shall be subject to enforcement by the North Carolina Division of Land
Resources, Department of Environmental and Natural Resources.
(Ord. passed 7-16-2012)
CHAPTER 160: TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS AND CAMPGROUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
160.01   Permits
   
160.02   Applicability
   
160.03   Use of major recreational equipment
   
160.04   Definitions
Procedures for Approval
   
160.15   Preliminary approval
   
160.16   Final approval
   
160.17   Certification
Standards
   
160.25   Development standards
   
160.26   Reference points
   
160.27   General standards for all parks
   
160.28   Configuration of camping spaces
   
160.29   Additional standards for camping cabins, alternative camping units and
camping tents
   
160.30   Suitability of land
   
160.31   Roads and access
   
160.32   Stormwater drainage system
   
160.33   Park name
   
160.34   Solid waste collection
   
160.35   Water and wastewater systems
   
160.36   Recreational amenities
   
160.37   Camping spaces at commercial sites
   
160.38   Year-round placement of units in park
   
160.39   Temporary emergency use of travel trailers
   
160.40   Nonconforming travel trailer parks
   
160.41   Debris removal
   
160.42   Storm response
   
160.43   Enforcement and administration
§ 160.01 PERMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or entity to develop, construct,
alter or extend any travel trailer or campground within the unincorporated area
of the County of Dare unless a valid permit issued by Dare County.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of unincorporated Dare County in those
zoning districts where travel trailer parks and campgrounds are authorized
according to the Dare County Zoning Ordinance. The terms campground and travel
trailer park are used interchangeably in this chapter and the Dare County
Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.03 USE OF MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   Major recreational equipment parked or stored on residential property or in
any location other than an approved travel trailer park or campground shall not
be used for living, sleeping, or housekeeping purposes. This does not preclude
the parking or storage of such equipment on one's own property while not in
use. MAJOR RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT is defined as including boats and boat
trailers, pickup campers or coaches designed to be mounted on motor vehicles,
motorized dwellings, tent trailers, travel trailers and recreational vehicles
(RVs).
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE CAMPING UNIT. A camping unit constructed of canvas or other
similar materials to be located in a park. Such units shall be constructed for
compliance with any applicable sections of the North Carolina Building Code and
the Dare County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance. ALTERNATIVE CAMPING UNITS
may or may not include restroom and kitchen facilities. Such units shall be
used as temporary quarters or shelter during periods of recreation, vacation,
leisure time or travel and shall not be used for permanent living quarters. The
term ALTERNATIVE CAMPING UNIT includes terms such as yurts, eco-tents or other
similar names.
   CAMPING CABIN. A structure constructed according to the North Carolina
Residential Code that is intended to be located in a park. Such cabins shall be
compliant with the Dare County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance. CAMPING
CABINS may or may not include restroom and/or kitchen facilities. Such units
shall be used as temporary quarters or shelter during periods of recreation,
vacation, leisure time or travel and shall not be used for permanent living
quarters.
   CAMPING SPACE. A designated space designed for the parking of a travel
trailer or for the location of a camper cabin, alternative camping unit or a
camping tent.
   CAMPING TENT. A temporary shelter constructed of canvas, fabric, plastic, or
other similar materials supported and sustained by a pole(s) and/or guy lines.
CAMPING TENTS shall be used for temporary quarters or shelter during periods of
recreation, vacation, leisure time or travel and shall not be used for
permanent living quarters and/or occupied by the same person or person for more
than 30 consecutive days.
   ENCLOSED AREA. An area that is fully contained or surrounded by rigid or
solid walls that are connected to and covered by a roof.
   ENTRANCE LANDING. Structure including stairs or stairway used for the
purpose of access to a travel trailer. Such landings shall not be constructed
with walls and/or a roof or enclosed in any fashion other than handrails,
lattice work, and/or pickets around the landing area. ENTRANCE LANDINGS shall
not exceed 100 square feet in area and shall not be permanently attached to the
travel trailer.
   PERMANENTLY ATTACHED ADDITIONS. Structural improvements that are bolted,
strapped, or otherwise directly connected to a travel trailer. The Dare County
Building Inspectors shall be responsible for making determinations on what
constitutes a PERMANENTLY ATTACHED ADDITION.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A self-propelled vehicle or structure, or a structure which
is or may be situated upon or hauled by the body of a self-propelled vehicle,
which contains sleeping or kitchen quarters or both sleeping and kitchen
quarters. The definition shall include the terms camper, camping vehicle, and
recreational vehicle.
   TRAVEL TRAILER PARK or CAMPGROUND. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
which has been so designated, improved, and/or used so that it contains 2 or
more sites or spaces available to the general public for rent and the placement
thereon of travel trailers, camping cabins, alternative camping units or
camping tents for occupancy. For the purposes of this chapter, a TRAVEL TRAILER
PARK and CAMPGROUND shall be hereinafter referred to as a PARK. PARKS may be
comprised of a mix of travel trailers, camping cabins, alternative camping
units and camping tents.
   UNENCLOSED AREA. An area that is not contained or surrounded by rigid or
solid walls. UNENCLOSED AREAS may be covered by a roof and may have partial
walls constructed of pickets, lattice work, boards or other similar materials.
Insect screening may be used in conjunction with partial walls in UNENCLOSED
AREAS. Windows or glass coverings shall not be allowed in UNENCLOSED AREAS.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2012;
Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020; Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
PROCEDURES FOR APPROVAL
§ 160.15 PRELIMINARY APPROVAL.
   (A)   Any proposed park shall be subject to review by the Planning Board
unless the Dare County Zoning Ordinance specifies the park shall be subject to
special use permit review. If so, the procedures for review as a special use
permit shall be followed with submittal of the preliminary site plan for review
by the Planning Board and approval of the preliminary site plan by the Board of
Commissioners.
   (B)   Submission and contents. The applicant shall submit to the Planning
Board, at least 15 days prior to a regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning
Board, 10 print copies and 1 digital copy of a site plan of the proposed park
prepared by a professional engineer or land surveyor currently licensed or
registered by the North Carolina State Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors containing the following information:
      (1)   A vicinity map of the proposed park showing its location in
relation to neighboring tracts, subdivisions, roads, and waterways;
      (2)   The boundaries of the entire tract and the portion of the tract to
be developed;
      (3)   The total acreage to be developed;
      (4)   The existing and proposed uses of the land within the park and the
existing uses of adjoining lands including names of owners of adjoining lands;
      (5)   The proposed street layout with pavement and right-of-way width,
site layout and size of sites;
      (6)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner and, if
applicable, a written and acknowledged statement of the owner designating the
applicant or other person to act as his or her agent for the submission of
plats;
      (7)   The name of the proposed park;
      (8)   Streets and lots of adjacent developed or platted properties;
      (9)   Title block containing:
         (a)   Property designation;
         (b)   Name of owners;
         (c)   Location (including township, county and state);
         (d)   Date or dates survey was conducted and plat prepared;
         (e)   A scale of drawing in feet per inch listed in words or figures;
         (f)   Name, address, registration number and seal of the land surveyor
and/or professional engineer;
      (10)   Corporate limits, township boundaries, county lines if on the
tract;
      (11)   The names, titles, firm association, addresses and telephone
numbers of all owners, developers, mortgagees, planners, architects, landscape
architects, and engineers responsible for the park;
      (12)   North arrow and orientation;
      (13)   Boundary lines of the tract, fully dimensioned by lengths and
bearings, and the location of existing boundary lines of adjoining lands;
      (14)   Minimum building setback lines, front, side and rear as applied to
the entire parcel;
      (15)   The zoning classifications of the tract and adjoining properties;
      (16)   Existing buildings or other structures, water courses, bridges,
culverts, storm drains, both on the proposed park and adjoining lands;
      (17)   Proposed camping spaces and dimensions numbered consecutively
throughout the park;
      (18)   Wooded areas, marshes, swamps, mean high tide line, vegetation
line, primary and other dunes, ponds or lakes, streams or streambeds and any
other natural features affecting the site;
      (19)   Flood hazard, floodway and floodway fringe areas and regulatory
flood elevation data if available;
      (20)   The following data concerning streets:
         (a)   Proposed streets;
         (b)   Existing and platted streets on adjoining properties and in the
proposed park;
         (c)   Rights-of-way, location and dimensions including width of the
proposed improved area;
         (d)   Approximate grades and linear footage of roads;
         (e)   Design engineering data for all corners and curves;
         (f)   Typical street cross sections;
         (g)   Street names. Such names shall not conflict with other existing
street names in unincorporated Dare County. Street name signs shall be erected
in the park by the park owner.
      (21)   The location and dimensions (if applicable) of all:
         (a)   Utility and other easements;
         (b)   Riding trails, pedestrian and/or bicycle paths;
         (c)   Parks and recreation areas with specific type indicated;
         (d)   Areas to be dedicated to or reserved for public use.
      (22)   The plans for utility layouts including:
         (a)   Wastewater systems;
         (b)   Stormwater management systems or improvements;
         (c)   Water distribution lines;
         (d)   Electric, gas, telephone, cable or other utility services;
         (e)   Illustrative connections to existing systems, line sizes, the
location of fire hydrants, blowoffs, manholes, force mains and gate valves,
etc.;
         (f)   Plans for individual water supply and sewage disposal systems.
      (23)   Site calculations including:
         (a)   Acreage in total tract including any wetland areas;
         (b)   Total number of camping spaces;
         (c)   Size of smallest space in the park;
         (d)   The names and location of any property or buildings within the
proposed park or within any contiguous property that is located on the U.S.
Department of Interior's National Register of Historic Places;
         (e)   Sufficient engineering data to determine readily and reproduce
on the ground every straight or curved lines, street line, lot lines, right-of-
way line, easement line, and setback line, including dimensions, bearings, or
deflection angles, radii, central angles, and tangent distance for the center
line or curved property lines that are not the boundary line of curved streets.
All dimensions shall be measured to the nearest 1/10 of a foot and all angles
to the nearest minute;
         (f)   The accurate locations and descriptions of all monuments,
elevations, markers, and control points;
         (g)   Topographic map when it is determined by the planning board that
one is needed, with contour intervals and scale as determined by the planning
board;
         (h)   Boundaries of all Areas of Environmental Concern designated in
accordance with the Coastal Area Management Act of 1974.
      (24)   If the park is to be developed in phases, the boundaries of each
phase and the sequence in which each is to be developed;
      (25)   An inventory and evaluation of the soil and water resources within
the proposed park.
   (C)   Review.
      (1)   Review by other agencies. A copy of the preliminary site plan shall
be submitted to the District Highway Engineer, the County Health Director and
to other appropriate agencies to assure coordination with the North Carolina
Coastal Management Program and offices of the County for their review and
recommendations.
      (2)   Review by Planning Board.
         (a)   After considering any report and/or recommendations received in
addition to any comments which the applicant may have, the Planning Board shall
approve or disapprove the preliminary site plan. If the Planning Board
disapproves the preliminary site plan, the reasons for such action shall be
stated, and recommendations made on the basis of which the proposed park could
be approved.
         (b)   Once the Planning Board has approved the preliminary site plan,
work to install the infrastructure and other park improvements may begin. Any
necessary building permits shall be obtained from the Dare County Building
Inspector.
         (c)   For those parks subject to special use permit review, the review
procedures set forth in the Dare County Zoning Ordinance shall be followed.
Work to install the infrastructure and other park improvements may begin after
special use approval is granted by the Board of Commissioners. Any necessary
building permits shall be obtained from the Dare County Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.16 FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Preparation of final site plan and installation of improvements. Prior
to approval of a final site plan, the applicant shall install all the
improvements as approved on the preliminary site plan. No final site plan will
be accepted for review unless accompanied by a statement signed by the
applicant certifying that all of the provisions of this chapter have been
complied with and that all of the required improvements have been installed.
   (B)   Submission of the final site plan.
      (1)   Upon completion of all improvements, the applicant shall submit the
final site plan to the Dare County Planning Director for review.
      (2)   The final plat for the park shall be submitted not more than 12
months after the date on which the preliminary site plan was approved by Dare
County; otherwise approval of the preliminary site plan shall expire and be
null and void.
      (3)   The Planning Board may grant an additional 12 months for the
installation of improvements and submission of the final site plan if the park
owner applies for such extension in writing before the expiration of the
initial period and has begun to install the required improvements.
      (4)   Five copies of the final site plan shall be submitted to the Dare
County Planning Director for review and final approval.
      (5)   The final site plan shall be prepared by a land surveyor or
professional engineer currently licensed and registered in the State of North
Carolina by the North Carolina State Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers and Land Surveyors.
      (6)   If the final site plan is disapproved by the Planning Director, the
reasons for such disapproval shall be stated in writing, specifying the
provisions of this chapter with which the final site plan does not comply. If
the final site plan is disapproved the applicant may make such changes as will
bring the final site plan into compliance and resubmit for reconsideration by
the Planning Director as if it were an original submission of a final site
plan. The Planning Director may recommend the final site plan be submitted to
the Planning Board for review and approval if the final site plan is
inconsistent with the approved preliminary site plan.
   (G)   Once the final site plan has been approved by the Planning Director,
the park may operate as approved by Dare County.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.17 CERTIFICATION.
   The following signed and acknowledged certificates or required portions
thereof shall appear on all copies of the final plat:
   “Certificate of Ownership
   I hereby certify that I am the owner of the property shown and described
hereon, which is located in    the unincorporated jurisdiction of the County of
Dare and that I hereby adopt this plan for a Travel Trailer Park and Campground
with my free consent and agree to the operate the Park according to the
provisions of the Dare County Travel Trailer Park/Campground Ordinance and the
approved site plan for the Park.
   _____________    ___________________
   DATE         OWNERS
   I, ________________, hereby certify that ________________ personally
appeared before me this day and acknowledged the due execution of this
certificate. Witness my hand and official seal this the _____ day of _________,
20 ______.
   Signature
   Official Seal
   State of North Carolina Dare County
   I, ______________, certify that this map was (drawn by me) (drawn under my
supervision) from (an actual survey made by me) (an actual survey made under my
supervision) (deed description recorded in Book ______ , Page ____, Book ______
Page ____, etc.) (other); that the ratio of precision as calculated by
latitudes and departure is 1: ____; that the boundaries not surveyed are shown
as broken lines plotted from information found in Book ____, Page ____; that
this map was prepared in accordance with G.S. § 47-30, as amended; and that the
prescribed reference points have been properly placed. Witness my hand and seal
this ________ day of __________ 20
   Certificate of Approval
   I hereby certify that the park shown hereon has been found to comply with
the relevant portions of the Travel Trailer Park and Campground Ordinance of
the County of Dare and that this site plan has been approved by Dare County.
   _________   ________________
   Date      Dare County Planning Director”
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
STANDARDS
§ 160.25 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   Each park shall comply with the design standards of this chapter as minimums
and shall contain the improvements specified which shall be installed and paid
for by the applicant. Land shall be dedicated or reserved as required.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
Cross-reference:
   Development standards for camping spaces in conjunction with other
commercial uses, see §
160.37
§ 160.26 REFERENCE POINTS.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat, permanent reference points shall
have been placed in accordance with G.S. §§ 39-32.1 et seq. At least 1 corner
of the park shall be designated by course and distance (tie) from a readily
discernible reference marker. Each park shall be adequately staked to show the
boundaries of the lot with stakes not less than 3 feet long and driven into the
ground not less than 2 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.27 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR ALL PARKS.
   (A)   The design and development of a park shall preserve the natural
terrain, natural drainage, existing topsoil, trees and natural vegetation to
the maximum extent possible.
   (B)   All parks shall contain at least 2 acres of contiguous area. This 2
acre minimum shall not include any coastal or freshwater wetland areas.
   (C)   Parks may be comprised of all travel trailers or may feature a mix of
travel trailers, camping cabins, alternative camping units and camping tent
sites. The preliminary and the final site plan shall identify the proposed use
of each space or camping area. If a park is proposed to feature other camping
units than travel trailers, a minimum of 50% of all camping spaces shall be
designated and used as travel trailer spaces or; the total number of camping
cabins and alternative camping units shall be limited to a density of 14 units
per acre, with the remaining sites, if utilized, devoted to travel trailer
camping sites.
   (D)   All parks shall have utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
   (E)   All development, improvements, structures, and utilities shall comply
with the applicable Areas of Environmental Concern (AEC) Standards and any
other rules promulgated pursuant to the Coastal Area Management Act of 1974.
   (F)   Where deemed necessary by the Planning Board, a pedestrian walk may be
required to provide convenient access to a public area such as a park or
school, to a water area, or to areas such as shopping centers, religious or
transportation facilities.
   (G)   Parks shall be considered commercial land uses and the maximum overall
lot coverage of impervious surfaces shall be 60% of the total parcel acreage
excluding freshwater and coastal wetland areas unless a different lot coverage
limitation for travel trailer parks/campgrounds is established by the
applicable zoning district regulations for the site.
   (H)   Camping spaces shall be located a minimum of 10 feet from any property
line of the overall park boundaries.
   (I)   Each camping space shall be properly graded to obtain a reasonably
flat site and to provide adequate drainage away from the space.
   (J)   No camping space shall have direct vehicular access to a public road.
   (K)   The park shall be developed with proper drainage ditches. All banks
shall be sloped and seeded.
   (L)   When the park has more than 1 direct access to a public road, each
access shall not be less than 300 feet apart or closer than 300 feet to a
public road intersection unless topographical conditions or unusual site
conditions demand otherwise.
   (M)    The travel trailer park shall have a buffer strip adjacent to the
park boundary extending along the perimeter of the park. This buffer shall
consist of vegetation or solid fencing of wood or composite materials. If
vegetation is used, the planting strip shall not be a portion of any lot, road,
or private drive. The buffer strip shall consist of a planted strip of land at
least 5 feet in width composed of indigenous deciduous and/or evergreen trees,
spaced not more than 10 feet apart, and not less than one row of indigenous
dense shrubs, spaced not more than 5 feet apart and 5 feet or more in height
after one growing season, which shall be planted and maintained in a healthy,
growing condition by the property owner. If fencing is used, such fencing shall
be a minimum of six feet in height. Buffers shall be maintained by the property
owner. Buffers shall not be required adjacent to wetland areas or along
estuarine or ocean shorelines. The outside surface of any fence facing the
street, water or adjacent property shall be the finished surface of fencing.
   (N)   The park shall provide all utilities required by this section.
   (O)   Each park shall have a central structure or structures that will
provide separate toilet and shower facilities for both sexes. Concession areas
with retail sales and laundry facilities may be provided in the park for park
guests.
   (P)   Where electrical service is used, the installation and use of such
facilities shall conform with all applicable codes.
   (Q)   Mobile homes in travel trailer parks/ campgrounds. It shall be
unlawful for a person to occupy, park or store a mobile home in a park unless
mobile homes are used for employee housing.
   (R)   Residential structures may be located within the park for use as
employee housing for an on-site park manager and other employees. Employee
housing units shall be located in a designated area in the park and identified
on the preliminary and final site plan. The total number of employee housing
units shall not exceed the overall number of employees. Travel trailers and
alternative camping units shall not be used for employee housing.
   (S)   Sales of travel trailers and/or camping vehicles in a park on a
commercial basis shall be unlawful.
   (T)   Sales of camping spaces shall be unlawful within a park.
   (U)   (1)   Travel trailers/recreational vehicles placed on sites within a
special flood hazard area shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements of the Dare County Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance.
      (2)   A travel trailer/recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if
it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
      (3)   Entrance landings as defined in this chapter shall be allowed.
   (V)   The length of occupancy of any travel trailer, camper cabin,
alternative camping unit and/or camping tent shall be less than 90 consecutive
days.
   (W)   Ownership of camping spaces shall be retained by the park owners.
Camping cabins and alternative camping units shall not be individually conveyed
or sold in fee simple title, as condominiums, fractural ownership or interval
ownership. Camping units shall be used as temporary quarters or shelter during
periods of recreation, vacation, leisure time or travel and shall not be used
for permanent living quarters.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021 ; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2021 )
§ 160.28 CONFIGURATION OF CAMPING SPACES.
   Camping spaces may be constructed with a fixed site layout with individual
camping spaces configured in a linear layout based on a minimum camping space
area or camping spaces may be constructed with a freeform layout with camping
spaces configured in a non-linear layout whereby camping spaces are separated
by a minimum distance. A combination of the 2 formats may be used within the
park boundaries.
   (A)   Fixed configuration.
      (1)   Each camping space shall consist of a minimum area of 1,500 square
feet with a minimum width of 30 feet with side space lines at right angles or
radial to street lines. Each camping space shall be designated on the ground by
markers or monuments. Each camping space shall be identified on the preliminary
and final site plans.
      (2)   No more than 1 travel trailer, camping cabin or alternative camping
unit may be parked or placed on any 1 camping space. A minimum of one 10 foot
by 20 foot parking space for a motor vehicle shall be located and identified
within each camping space Internal access roads shall not be blocked by motor
vehicles or travel trailers.
      (3)   Each camping space that will be utilized by a travel trailer shall
be improved with a surface material such as gravel or concrete to a provide a
stabilized area for travel trailers. Impervious surfaces shall be counted as
lot coverage.
   (B)   Free form configuration.
      (1)   Camping spaces may be configured to allow flexibility in siting of
camping spaces without the minimum area of 1,500 square feet applied to each
camping space. In lieu of the minimum camping space area, a maximum density of
28 camping spaces per 1 acre of land shall be applied to free form camping
areas. Density of freeform camping areas shall be adjusted based on this 28-
space limitation for areas less than 1 acre that are designated for freeform
camping spaces within the park boundaries.
      (2)   Camping units within freeform camping areas shall be separated from
other camping units or other structures within the park by a minimum of 15
feet. This separation shall be measured from the footprint of a camping unit to
the footprint of any adjoining camping unit or other structures in the park.
Each freeform camping space shall be designated on the preliminary and final
site plans with the separation measurements from other camping units, park
boundaries, and other structures included on the site plan. Tent guy lines
shall be excluded from the footprint area of separation.
      (3)   A minimum of one 10 foot by 20 foot parking space for a motor
vehicle shall be located and identified for each freeform camping space.
Internal access roads shall not be blocked by motor vehicles or travel
trailers.
      (4)   Each camping space that will be utilized by a travel trailer shall
be improved with a surface material such as gravel or concrete to a provide a
stabilized area for travel trailers. Impervious surfaces shall be counted as
lot coverage.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.29 ADDITIONAL STANDARDS FOR CAMPING CABINS, ALTERNATIVE CAMPING UNITS AND
CAMPING TENTS.
   (A)   Camping cabins and alternative camping units shall be constructed
according to North Carolina State Residential Codes, the Dare County Flood
Damage Prevention Ordinance and all other applicable federal, state and local
regulations.
   (B)   Camping cabins and alternative camping units shall not exceed 600
square feet of enclosed area. The square footage of decks and unenclosed areas
shall not exceed 50% of the square footage of a camping cabin or alternative
camping unit but in no instance shall the square footage of decks and
unenclosed areas exceed a maximum of 300 square feet. Steps, stairs, and
stairways shall not be included in the square footage of the unenclosed areas.
   (C)   A maximum of 2 camping cabins and alternative camping units may be
connected by unenclosed areas according to the square footage limitations of
division (B) and the units shall be separated by a minimum of 15 feet.
   (D)   Camping cabins and alternative camping units may contain sleeping,
restroom and kitchen facilities.
   (E)   Areas for camping tents may be dedicated within the boundaries of any
park and should be delineated on the preliminary and final site plans. Such
areas shall be used for camping tents only. Camping tents shall be used for
temporary quarters or shelter during periods of recreation, vacation, leisure
time or travel and shall not be used for permanent living quarters and/or shall
not be occupied for 30 consecutive days or more.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.30 SUITABILITY OF LAND.
   Areas that have been used for the disposal of solid waste shall not be used
for a park lots until the disposal of solid waste has been discontinued for at
least ten years and then only if tests by the County Health Department, a
structural engineer and a soils expert determine that the land is suitable for
the purpose proposed.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.31 ROADS AND ACCESS.
   (A)   Internal access roads shall be used to provide access to all camping
sites.
   (B)   Internal access roads shall be a minimum width of 20 feet for 2-way
traffic. In some instances, 1-way streets, 12 feet in width, may be authorized
by Dare County to access amenity areas or camping spaces where maneuverability
of travel trailers or recreational vehicles is not compromised by the decreased
road width.
   (C)   Internal access roads are encouraged to be of a circular design to
allow maneuverability of travel trailers and other recreational vehicles using
the park. The design of any cul-de-sac or turnaround area shall be consistent
with North Carolina Department of Transportation standards.
   (D)   Internal access roads shall be improved with 8 inches of ABC or STBC
type 3 base course materials. Recycled asphalt or asphalt millings may be used
but if used, then such material shall be considered an impervious surface and
counted as lot coverage.
   (E)   Internal access roads shall be maintained by the park owner.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.32 STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   A stormwater management plan prepared by a licensed North Carolina engineer
shall be submitted in conjunction with the site plan for any proposed park.
Design criteria used for the stormwater plan shall be consistent with those
used by the State of North Carolina for development activities in coastal
counties but at a minimum shall designed to capture and retain a 10-year 24-
hour storm event. The design criteria shall be identified in the plan and
appropriate on-site improvements to address stormwater conditions shall be
installed as part of the preliminary plat approval.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.33 PARK NAME.
   The name of the park shall not duplicate nor closely approximate the name of
an existing subdivision or travel trailer park/campground within Dare County.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.34 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION.
   Solid waste containers shall be provided on site and shall be identified on
the preliminary and final site plans submitted to the Planning Board. The
location of solid waste containers and the appropriate number required for each
park shall be subject to review and approval by the Dare County Public Works
Department. A copy of the preliminary site plan shall be provided to the Public
Works Department as part of the Planning Board review process. Solid waste
containers shall be placed on the site prior to final plat review and approval.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.35 WATER AND WASTEWATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Parks not connected to municipal or county water and/or sanitary sewer
systems must have a suitable source of water supply and sanitary sewage
disposal, which complies with the regulations of the Dare County Health
Department and with the applicable laws of North Carolina and is approved by
the County Health Department.
   (B)   A sewage dumping station may be provided at the park but shall not be
used in lieu of the facilities required in division (D) below. Any dumping
station shall be approved by the applicable state agencies.
   (C)   Individual utility connections for sites may be provided in addition
to service buildings. The provision of individual utility connections do not
alleviate the need to provide permanent service facilities as specified below:
   (D)   One flush toilet, 1 shower and 1 lavatory for each sex per every 20
approved camping spaces provided that camping cabins and alternative camping
units that include individual restroom facilities in the unit shall be counted
at 50% in the fixture to camping space ratio calculation.
   (E)   All toilet, shower, lavatory and laundry facilities shall be provided
and maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and kept in good repair at all
times. They shall be safely and adequately lighted. Facilities shall be easily
accessible and conveniently located.
   (F)   All toilet, urinals, shower, lavatory and laundry room facilities
shall be constructed according to North Carolina building codes and the Dare
County Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.36 RECREATIONAL AMENITIES.
   Recreational amenities may be provided in the park and shall be identified
as common areas on the preliminary and final site plans. Such amenities shall
be constructed according to all applicable federal, state, and county
ordinances. Ownership of the recreational amenities shall be retained by the
park owners. The construction of swimming pools at any individual camping space
shall be prohibited.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.37 CAMPING SPACES AT COMMERCIAL SITES.
   In areas zoned C-3, I-1, S-1 and Hwy 345, camping spaces may be developed on
a commercial site in conjunction with other commercial uses according to the
following provisions and shall not be considered as a park.
   (A)   A minimum of 20 camping spaces shall be provided for travel trailers
and alternative camping units only. If camping cabins are proposed in
conjunction with other commercial uses, then Section 22-31 of the Dare County
Zoning Ordinance shall apply.
   (B)   The camping spaces shall be developed according to the provisions of §
160.28(A) or (B).
   (C)   The development of camping spaces at existing commercial sites shall
be subject to special use permit review and approval.
   (D)   The location of buffers and the type of buffer (vegetative versus
solid wood or composite fencing) shall be established during the special use
permit review. If fencing is used, such fencing shall be a minimum of six feet
in height. Buffers shall be maintained by the property owner.
   (E)   Water and wastewater facilities as established in §
160.35 shall apply, however the use of shared facilities may be authorized by
the Board of Commissioners on a case by case basis as determined during the
special use review and approval process.
   (F)   Ownership of camping spaces shall be retained by the property owner.
Camping spaces shall not be individually conveyed or sold in fee simple title,
as condominiums, fractural ownership or interval ownership. Camping units shall
be used as temporary quarters or shelter during periods of recreation,
vacation, leisure time or travel and shall not be used for permanent living
quarters.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021 ; Am. Ord. passed 10-18-2021 )
§ 160.38 YEAR-ROUND PLACEMENT OF UNITS IN PARK.
   Travel trailers and other recreational vehicles may be located in a park on
a year-round basis and shall not be used for permanent dwellings or year-round
occupancy by individuals or groups of individuals.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.39 TEMPORARY EMERGENCY USE OF TRAVEL TRAILERS.
   The use of travel trailers for temporary housing may be authorized by the
Dare County Board of Commissioners during storm recovery and reconstruction.
Emergency use of travel trailers shall not be subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.40 NONCONFORMING TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS
   All travel trailer parks that existed on or before March 18, 1985 shall be
considered to be pre-existing and nonconforming and shall be exempt from the
standards of this chapter except for the following:
   (A)   Roads. Access and circulation roads shall be of an all-weather surface
and shall be maintained on a regular basis to eliminate ruts, potholes, etc.
The road maintenance shall be the responsibility of the park owner/operator.
The Dare County Planning Department may inspect roads on a regular basis to
determine if the roads are at an acceptable level of improvement. If roads are
found to be in need of maintenance, the Planning Department shall notify the
park owner/operator in writing of the need for road maintenance. The park
operator shall have 90 days from receipt of the notice in which to complete the
necessary maintenance to bring the roads back to an acceptable level.
   (B)   (1)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites within a special flood
hazard area shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet all the requirements for new construction, including
anchoring and elevation requirements of Dare County Flood Damage Prevention
Ordinance.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      (3)   Entrance landings as defined in this chapter shall be allowed.
   (C)   In existing trailer parks where travel trailers are set up with
porches, decks, screened rooms, or additions other than the allowable entrance
landing, the nonconforming improvements may continue to exist as they did prior
to July 20, 1992 until ownership or occupancy of the travel trailer has changed
or the nonconforming improvements have been otherwise destroyed provided that
such improvements are not permanently attached to a travel trailer by bolting,
strapping or some other method. Should there be a change in ownership,
occupancy or some other occurrence that results in the loss of the
nonconforming improvement, such improvement shall be not reconstructed. It may
however be replaced with a 100 square foot entrance landing as defined in this
chapter.
   (D)   Any travel trailer park or campground in existence on October 19, 2020
shall be considered a pre-existing park and shall not be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. However, any existing park, if expanded, shall
adhere to the revisions to the ordinance as adopted by the Dare County Board of
Commissioners on October 19, 2020. Any existing park may be modified to include
camper cabins, alternative camping units or camping tent sites subject to the
provisions of this chapter as adopted by the Dare County Board of Commissioners
on October 19, 2020.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.41 DEBRIS REMOVAL.
   Dare County will not be responsible for the removal of damaged RVs. Damaged
units shall not be placed or abandoned on the right-of-way of any public or
private road. Park owners shall be responsible for any debris removal or clean-
up costs that may result for storm conditions or other natural disasters that
occur. Violations of this section of this chapter shall be considered to be a
violation of Chapter 96 and subject to the terms of that chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2012;
Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020; Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.42 STORM RESPONSE.
   For parks developed after October 19, 2020, each park owner shall develop a
storm response plan of appropriate actions that will be taken before, during
and after storm events. In the event evacuation orders are issued by Dare
County, the park owner shall notify park guests of the order.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
§ 160.43 ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Park owners shall be notified in writing of any violations of this
chapter that are identified by the Dare County Planning Department. The written
notification shall state the nature of the violation, the identified method of
correction of the violation, and the timetable for correction of the violation.
Park owners shall be responsible for informing the individual RV owner of any
violation and ensuring that the violation is corrected as notified by the
Planning Department.
   (B)   Violations of this chapter shall be subject to the general penalties
set forth in §
10.99 of the Dare County Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. passed 3-18-1985; Am. Ord. passed 7-20-1992; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-2012;
Am. Ord. passed 10-19-2020; Am. Ord. passed 2-16-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
TABLE I: REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the purchase of a certain parcel of land
–      9-15-1970   situated in the Village of Hatteras, Hatteras Township,
                     Dare County, North Carolina.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to North Carolina General Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO NORTH CAROLINA GENERAL STATUTES
G.S. Cites Code Section
G.S. Cites               Code Section
1-301.2                  90.07
1A-1, Rule 4(j)          Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-72
1A-1, Rule 5             90.07
1A-1, Rule 6             90.07
12-3                     10.05;
                         10.06
Ch. 14                   150.04
                         10.99;
                         91.106;
14-4                     93.99;
                         100.99;
                         101.05;
                         153.34
                         91.007;
14-4(a)                  91.031;
                         91.032
Ch. 14, Art. 26          130.04
14-234                   30.02
14-313(a)                34.02
14-414                   102.01
18A-17(14)               Spec. Acts Art. XXIV, Sec. 1
18B-600                  Spec. Acts Art. XXXIV, Sec.1
18B-601(b)               Spec. Acts Art. XXXIV, Sec.1
18B-805(b)               Spec. Acts Art. XXII, Sec. 1
18B-805(c)               Spec. Acts Art. XXII, Sec. 1
18B-1001                 114.01
Ch. 20                   Spec. Acts Art. XXXV, Sec. 1
20-4.01                  Spec. Acts Art. XXXV, Sec. 1
20-4.01(13)              91.007
20-28.4                  90.07
20-114(c)                90.07
20-115.1                 50.38
20-115.1(b)              50.38
20-115.1(c)              50.38
20-115.1(f)              50.38
20-115.1(g)              50.38
20-116                   50.38
20-117                   50.38
20-141                   Spec. Acts Art. XXXV, Sec. 3
20-219.10                90.04
20-219.11                90.04
20-219.11(a) and (b)     103.06
20-219.11 (c)-(f)        90.06
Ch. 29                   153.05
39-32.1 et seq.          160.26
Ch. 40                   Spec. Acts Art. XIX, Sec. 9
44A-4                    90.07
44A-5                    90.07
44A-6                    90.07
Ch. 45                   Spec. Acts Art. XXVII, Sec. 1
45-45.2                  Spec. Acts Art. XXVII, Sec. 1
47-30                    153.17;
                         160.17
Ch. 62A                  94.02
                         150.01;
Ch. 63                   150.04; Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-29
63-35                    150.22
Ch. 67                   91.085; Spec. Acts Art. XXXI, Sec. 2
67-4.1                   91.030;
                         91.085
Ch. 87, Art. 7, part 2   154.03
90-95.2                  34.01
Ch. 105, Art. 8E         Spec. Acts Art XXVI, Sec. 1; Spec. Acts Art. XXVII,
                         Sec. 1
105-164.3                Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 2
105-164.4(a)(1)          Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 4
105-164.4(a)(3)          Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 1
105-164.13               Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 4
105-164.14               Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 4
105-164.14(b)            Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 4
105-164.14(c)            Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 4
105-164.14(d)            Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 4
105-187.3                90.07
105-361                  113.01;
                         113.02
105-361(a)(1)            113.01
106-304 et seq.          91.085
106-581.1                Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-2
106-743.2                Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-2
106-758                  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-2
110-86(2)                Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-2
Ch. 113                  91.005; Spec. Acts Art. XX, Sec. 1
Ch. 113, Subchapter IV   130.02
Ch. 113, Art. 27         154.08
113-133.1(e)             91.005
Ch. 113A, Art. 1         154.06
Ch. 113A, Art. 4         153.33
113A-8                   154.06
Ch. 116B                 90.07
121-22                   103.04
121-23                   103.04
122C-3(11)b.             Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-2
Ch. 130A                 153.33
Ch. 130A, Art. 9         151.05
130A-190                 91.105
130A-290(a)(6)           151.05
130A-290(a)(35)          151.05
130A-290(a)(36)          151.05
130A-492                 34.02
130A-498(c1)             34.02
Ch. 132                  30.02
132-1                    Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec. 1; Spec. Acts Art. XXV, Sec.
                         4
136-102.6                153.16
Ch. 143, Part 6, Art. 21 151.01
Ch. 143, Art. 21         154.03
143-33C                  152.11
143-143.15               151.51
143-215.58               151.34;
                         151.99
                         30.02;
143-318.9 et seq.        32.02;
                         152.11
143-595 et seq.          34.02
153-123                  50.99
Ch. 153A                 Spec. Acts Art. XXXI, Sec. 2
Ch. 153A, Art. 4, Part 4 Spec. Acts Art. XXVIII, Sec. 4
Ch. 153A, Art. 9         51.36
153A-22                  Spec. Acts Art. XXVIII, Sec. 4
153A-22(e)               Spec. Acts Art. XXVIII, Sec. 5.1
153A-22(g)               Spec. Acts Art. XXVIII, Sec. 5
153A-27                  30.04
153A-27.1                30.04
153A-50                  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-12
153A-58(3)(b)            30.04
153A-60                  Spec. Acts Art. XXVIII, Sec. 3
153A-60(4)               Spec. Acts Art. XXVIII, Sec. 1
153A-61                  Spec. Acts Art. XXVIII, Sec. 2
153A-64                  Spec. Acts Art. XXVIII, Sec. 3
153A-77                  Spec. Acts Art. XIX, Sec. 6
153A-123                 10.99;
                         91.106
153A-132                 103.05
153A-132.1               Ch. 50
153A-145.7               114.01
153A-158(e)              Spec. Acts Art. XXXIII, Sec. 1
159-28.1                 Spec. Acts Art. XIX, Sec. 4
159-34                   Spec. Acts Art. XXXI, Sec. 7
Ch. 160A                 Spec. Acts Art. XXVI, Sec. 1
Ch. 160A, Art. 8         151.01
Ch. 160A, Art. 12        Spec. Acts Art. XXXI, Sec. 8
160A-79                  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-12
160A-175                 153.34
106A-196                 Spec. Acts Art. XXVI, Sec. 1
160A-288                 34.01
160A-288.2               34.01
160A-400.99(e)           152.11
                         Ch. 155, App. A, Secs.
                         22-1,
Ch. 160D                 22-12,
                         22-63.1,
                         22-71
Ch. 160D, Art. 7         151.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 9         151.01
Ch. 160D, Art. 10        Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-88
                         151.01; Ch. 155, App. A, Secs.
Ch. 160D, Art. 11        22-64,
                         22-65
160D-108                 Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-2
160D-108.1               Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-88
160D-109(g)              Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-70
160D-308                 152.11
160D-403                 Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-72
160D-406                 Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-72
160D-501                 Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-86
160D-602(b)              Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-86
160D-604                 152.10
160D-947(e)              Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-70
160D-1108                153.99
160D-1111                Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-88
160D-1112                Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-69
160D-1115                Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-88
160D-1208                Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-69
                         Ch. 155, App. A, Secs.
160D-1402                22-69.1,
                         22-70
160D-1402(d)             Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-70
160D-1402(k)             Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-70
160D-1403.1              Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-88
160D-1405(d)             Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                         22-70
Ch. 163                  Spec. Acts Art XXX, Sec. 1; Spec. Acts Art. XXXI, Sec.
                         4
Ch. 166A                 92.02
166A-19.3(19)            92.03
166A-19.15               92.04
166A-19.22               92.05
166A-19.22(b)(2) & (3)   92.05
166A-19.31               92.02
166A-19.31(b)(1)e.       92.05
166A-19.31(b)(4)         92.05
166A-19.31(d)            92.05
                         
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2005 Code
Prior Code 2005 Code
10.01      10.01
10.02      10.02
10.03      10.03
10.04      10.04
10.05      10.05
10.06      10.06
10.07      10.07
10.08      10.08
10.09      10.09
10.10      10.10
10.11      10.11
10.12      10.12
10.13      10.13
10.14      10.14
10.15      10.15
10.16      10.16
10.17      10.17
10.18      10.18
10.19      10.19
10.210     10.20
10.99      10.99
30.01      30.01
30.02      30.02
30.03      30.03
30.04      30.04
31.01      31.01
32.01      32.01
32.02      32.02
33.01      33.01
34.01      34.01
34.02      34.02
50.01      50.01
50.02      50.02
50.15      50.15
50.16      50.16
50.17      50.17
50.18      50.18
50.19      50.19
50.20      50.20
50.30      50.30
50.31      50.31
50.32      50.32
50.33      50.33
50.34      50.34
50.35      50.35
50.36      50.36
50.37      50.37
50.38      50.38
51.01      51.01
51.02      51.02
51.10      51.10
51.11      51.11
51.12      51.12
51.13      51.13
51.14      51.14
51.20      51.20
51.21      51.21
51.22      51.22
51.23      51.23
51.24      51.24
51.25      51.25
51.35      51.35
51.36      51.36
51.37      51.37
51.45      51.45
51.46      51.46
51.47      51.47
51.48      51.48
51.49      51.49
51.60      51.60
51.61      51.61
70.01      70.01
70.02      70.02
70.99      70.99
90.01      90.01
90.02      90.02
90.03      90.03
90.04      90.04
90.05      90.05
90.06      90.06
90.07      90.07
90.08      90.08
90.09      90.09
91.01      91.001
91.02      91.002
91.03      91.003
91.04      91.004
91.041     91.005
91.042     91.006
91.043     91.007
91.05      91.008
91.06      91.009
91.07      91.010
91.15      91.025
91.16      91.026
91.17      91.027
91.18      91.028
91.19      91.029
91.21      91.031
91.22      91.032
91.30      91.050
91.31      91.051
91.32      91.052
91.33      91.053
91.34      91.054
91.35      91.055
91.36      91.056
91.45      91.065
91.46      91.066
91.47      91.067
91.48      91.068
91.49      91.069
91.50      91.070
91.51      91.071
91.52      91.072
91.53      91.073
91.54      91.074
91.65      91.085
91.67      91.086
93.01      93.01
93.02      93.02
93.03      93.03
93.99      93.99
94.01      94.01
94.02      94.02
94.03      94.03
95.01      95.01
95.02      95.02
95.03      95.03
95.04      95.04
95.05      95.05
95.06      95.06
96.01      96.01
96.02      96.03
96.03      96.04
96.04      96.99
97.01      97.01
97.02      97.02
97.03      97.03
97.04      97.04
97.05      97.05
98.01      98.01
98.02      98.02
98.03      98.03
98.04      98.04
98.05      98.05
98.06      98.06
98.07      98.07
98.08      98.08
99.01      99.01
99.02      99.02
99.03      99.03
99.04      99.04
99.15      99.15
99.16      99.16
100.01     100.01
100.02     100.02
100.03     100.03
100.04     100.04
100.15     100.15
100.16     100.16
100.17     100.17
100.18     100.18
100.19     100.19
100.20     100.20
100.99     100.99
101.01     101.01
101.02     101.02
101.03     101.03
101.04     101.04
101.05     101.05
111.01     111.01
111.02     111.02
112.01     112.01
112.02     112.02
112.03     112.03
113.01     113.01
113.02     113.02
113.03     113.03
130.01     130.01
130.02     130.02
130.03     130.03
130.04     130.04
150.01     150.01
150.02     150.02
150.03     150.03
150.04     150.04
152.10     152.10
152.11     152.11
153.01     153.01
153.02     153.02
153.03     153.03
153.04     153.04
153.05     153.05
153.15     153.15
153.16     153.16
153.18     153.17
153.30     153.30
153.31     153.31
153.32     153.32
153.33     153.33
153.34     153.34
153.35     153.35
153.36     153.36
153.37     153.37
153.38     153.38
153.39     153.39
153.40     153.40
153.55     153.55
153.56     153.58
153.57     153.58
153.99     153.99
154.01     154.01
154.02     154.02
154.03     154.03
154.04     154.04
154.05     154.05
154.06     154.06
154.07     154.07
154.08     154.08
155.01     155.01
156.01     156.01
156.02     156.02
156.03     156.03
157.01     157.01
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.  Date Passed Code Section
R92-2-3   2-7-1992    30.03
R92-3-7   3-9-1992    94.01-
                      94.03
–       - -1999     51.02
R01-1-4a  1-2-200     130.01
–       4-4-2003    152.11
–       11-17-2003  113.01-
                      113.03
–       5- -2004    158.01-
                      158.06
-         12-4-2004   99.20-
                      99.24
                      92.01–
R12-12-34 12-3-2012   92.12;
                      92.99
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      6-8-1948    30.01
–      3-7-1967    30.01
                     96.01;
–      7-20-1970   96.03;
                     96.04;
                     96.99
–      9-15-1970   TSO I
–      5-8-1972    99.15;
                     99.16
–      4-2-1973    154.01-
                     154.08
–      5-21-1973   99.01;
                     99.03
                     90.01-
–      8-4-1975    90.05;
                     90.08;
                     90.09
–      10-7-1975   150.01-
                     150.04
                     50.01;
                     50.02;
–      6-7-1976    50.15-
                     50.20;
                     50.30-
                     50.37
–      8-5-1976    95.01-
                     95.06
–      7-5-1977    99.02;
                     99.04
–      10-3-1977   91.004
–      6-5-1978    70.01
–      9-7-1978    32.01;
                     32.02
                     51.10;
                     51.11;
                     51.20-
                     51.25;
                     51.35-
–      7-11-1978   51.37;
                     51.45;
                     51.46;
                     51.49;
                     51.60;
                     51.61
                     91.001-
                     91.003;
                     91.008;
                     91.009;
                     91.025-
–      11-6-1978   91.029;
                     91.050-
                     91.056;
                     91.065-
                     91.074;
                     91.085;
                     91.086
–      5-7-1979    31.01
–      8-4-1980    130.01
                     51.12;
–      4-6-1981    51.14;
                     111.01;
                     111.02
–      8-18-1981   99.01;
                     99.03
                     153.01-
                     153.05;
                     153.15-
                     153.17;
–      11-29-1982  153.30-
                     153.40;
                     153.55;
                     153.58;
                     153.59;
                     153.99
–      3-18-1983   157.01
–      10-1-1984   90.01;
                     90.03
–      1-14-1985   33.01
                     160.01–
                     160.04;
–      3-18-1985   160.15–
                     160.17;
                     160.25–
                     160.43
–      12-1-1986   100.01-
                     100.04
–      7-6-1987    99.03
–      7-5-1988    51.01
–      8-1-1988    97.01-
                     97.05
                     93.01-
–      11-18-1988  93.03;
                     93.99
–      12-1-1988   34.01
–      1-2-1990    70.02;
                     70.99
                     100.15-
–      1-8-1990    100.20;
                     100.99
–      1-6-1992    33.01
92-3-9   3-16-1992   98.01-
                     98.08
–      7-20-1992   91.010
                     160.01–
                     160.04;
–      7-20-1992   160.15–
                     160.17;
                     160.25–
                     160.43
–      2-15-1993   91.010
–      8-16-1993   155.01
–      10-4-1993   34.02
–      4-4-1994    34.02
–      7-5-1994    130.01
94-11-49 11-21-1994  156.01-
                     156.03
                     51.11;
                     51.13;
                     51.20;
                     51.21;
                     51.24;
–      7-17-1995   51.25;
                     51.35;
                     51.36;
                     51.45-
                     51.49;
                     51.60
–      11-20-1995  130.03
–      11-18-1996  91.031
–      1-6-1997    152.10
–      5-5-1997    30.02
–      8-4-1997    130.04
–      1-5-1998    33.01
–      2-2-1998    30.02
–      3-16-1998   101.01-
                     101.05
–      5-18-1998   97.04
–      1-19-1999   95.02
–      7-6-1999    112.01-
                     112.03
–      10-18-1999  91.032
–      12-18-2000  91.007
–      1-5-2004    91.031
–      2-4-2004    30.02
–      12-6-2004   155.01
                     150.15-
–      4-4-2005    150.24;
                     155.01
–      2-20-2006   156.03
–      9-5-2006    153.41
                     151.01–
                     151.07;
                     151.09–
                     151.12;
                     151.30–
–      9-20-2006   151.35;
                     151.50–
                     151.56;
                     151.70;
                     151.71;
                     151.99
-        3-19-2007   102.01
–      1-7-2008(2) 153.40
–      6-2-2008    153.40
–      9-2-2008    153.20
–      9-15-2008   91.006
–      1-5-2009    152.01
–      2-16-2009   91.001,
                     91.030
–      3-16-2009   153.05
–      5-4-2009    97.04
–      5-18-2009   98.01–
                     98.11
                     50.45–
–      7-20-2009   50.50,
                     50.99
                     100.30–
–      7-19-2010   100.34;
                     100.99
                    
                    
                     153.05;
–      3-21-2011   153.15–
                     153.18
                     153.05;
–      3-21-2011   153.15–
                     153.18;
                     153.20
–      4-5-2011    100.30
                     96.02–
–      5-16-2011   96.06;
                     96.99
–      7-18-2011   91.032
–      4-16-2012   34.02
                     160.04;
–      5-12-2012   160.41;
                     160.43
–      5-21-2012   151.51
                     159.01 -
–      7-16-2012   159.07;
                     159.99
–      10-7-2013   152.11
–      12-2-2013   100.30
–      1-6-2014    151.05
–      1-20-2015   34.02
–      1-20-2015   151.32;
                     151.33
–      1-20-2015   152.20;
                     152.21
–      1-20-2015   153.17;
                     153.18
–      6-17-2015   103.01–
                     103.07
–      1-19-2016   91.095–
                     91.106
–      8-1-2016    100.30
                     91.001,
–      5-15-2017   91.011,
                     91.033
–      7-17-2017   114.01
–      9-5-2017    91.030
–      8-20-2018   99.15–
                     99.17
–      8-20-2018   100.30
–      11-19-2018  100.30
–      1-22-2019   100.30
–      2-19-2019   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec. 22-25
–      3-18-2019   152.10
–      - -         Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-27.16
–      - -         Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-26.1
–      - -         Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-31.1
–      8-19-2019   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-58.1
                     Ch. 155, App. A, Secs. 22-16,
                     22-16.3,
                     22-17,
                     22-18–
                     22-19,
                     22-21, 22-22–
–      9-16-2019   22.23,
                     22-23.2–
                     22-23.5,
                     22-24.1–
                     22-27.1,
                     22-27.5,
                     22-27.7–
                     22-27.16
–      9-16-2019   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec. 22-58.7
–      9-16-2019   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec. 22-58.8
–      9-16-2019   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec. 22-58.9
–      10-21-2019  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec. 22-26
                     151.01–
                     151.12;
                     151.30–
                     151.35;
–      5-3-2020    151.50–
                     151.57;
                     151.70;
                     151.71;
                     151.99
                     92.01–
–      7-20-2020   92.12;
                     92.99
–      10-19-2020  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-26
                     160.01–
                     160.04;
–      10-19-2020  160.15–
                     160.17;
                     160.25–
                     160.43
                     160.01–
                     160.04;
–      2-16-2021   160.15–
                     160.17;
                     160.25–
                     160.43
–      6-21-2021   150.23
–      6-21-2021   151.01;
                     151.07
                     152.01;
–      6-21-2021   152.10;
                     152.11
                     153.04;
                     153.17;
                     153.20;
–      6-21-2021   153.32;
                     153.40;
                     153.56–
                     153.59;
                     153.99
                     Ch. 155, App. A, Secs.
                     22-1,
                     22-2,
                     22-4,
                     22-12,
                     22-16–
                     22-16.3,
                     22-17,
                     22-17.1,
                     22-18–
                     22-21.1,
                     22-22–
                     22-25.1,
                     22-26.1–
                     22-27.3–
                     22-27.5,
                     22-27.7–
                     22-27.16,
                     22-27.20,
–      6-21-2021   22-28.2–
                     22-28.4,
                     22-29.1–
                     22-29.4,
                     22-31,
                     22-31.1,
                     22-52,
                     22-54,
                     22-55,
                     22-57–
                     22-58.1,
                     22-58.3,
                     22-58.5,
                     22-58.7–
                     22-58.9,
                     22-62.1,
                     22-63–
                     22-73,
                     22-81–
                     22-88.1
                     158.02;
–      6-21-2021   158.04;
                     158.05
–      9-20-2021   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-26
–      10-18-2021  160.27;
                     160.37
–      10-18-2021  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-58.5
–      11-15-2021  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-23
–      11-15-2021  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-25
–      11-15-2021  Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-2
–      3-7-2022    34.02
–      3-7-2022    91.030
–      4-20-2022   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-16.3
–      4-20-2022   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-21
–      4-20-2022   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-58.6
–      9-6-2022    91.004
–      11-7-2022   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-22.2
                     Ch. 155, App. A, Secs.
                     22-16;
                     22-16.3;
                     22-17;
–      5-17-2023   22-21;
                     22-23.2–
                     22-23.4;
                     22-27.7;
                     22-27.8
–      5-17-2023   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-31.1
–      10-2-2023   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-25
–      11-6-2023   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-17.2
–      12-4-2023   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-22.1
–      12-23-2023  91.056
–      1-2-2024    Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-2
–      1-2-2024    Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-23.2
–      1-2-2024    Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-58.10
–      6-3-2024    Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-23.2
                     96.02;
–      7-16-2024   96.06;
                     96.07;
                     96.99
–      9-3-2024    Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-27.14
–      9-3-2024    Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-31
–      11-4-2024   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-27.15
–      12-2-2024   Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-27.5
–      2-3-2025    Ch. 155, App. A, Sec.
                     22-65
                    
 
